新約

新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　


1:1    亞伯拉罕的後裔，大衛的子孫，耶穌基督的家譜。（後裔子孫原文都作兒子下同）
The book of the generation of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham.

1:2    亞伯拉罕生以撒。以撒生雅各。雅各生猶大和他的弟兄。
Abraham begat Isaac; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat Judas and his brethren;

1:3    猶大從他瑪氏生法勒斯和謝拉。法勒斯生希斯崙。希斯崙生亞蘭。
And Judas begat Phares and Zara of Thamar; and Phares begat Esrom; and Esrom begat Aram;

1:4    亞蘭生亞米拿達。亞米拿達生拿順。拿順生撒門。
And Aram begat Aminadab; and Aminadab begat Naasson; and Naasson begat Salmon;

1:5    撒門從喇合氏生波阿斯。波阿斯從路得氏生俄備得。俄備得生耶西。
And Salmon begat Booz of Rachab; and Booz begat Obed of Ruth; and Obed begat Jesse;

1:6    耶西生大衛王。大衛從烏利亞的妻子生所羅門。
And Jesse begat David the king; and David the king begat Solomon of her that had been the wife of Urias;

1:7    所羅門生羅波安。羅波安生亞比雅。亞比雅生亞撒。
And Solomon begat Roboam; and Roboam begat Abia; and Abia begat Asa;

1:8    亞撒生約沙法。約沙法生約蘭。約蘭生烏西亞。
And Asa begat Josaphat; and Josaphat begat Joram; and Joram begat Ozias;

1:9    烏西亞生約坦。約坦生亞哈斯。亞哈斯生希西家。
And Ozias begat Joatham; and Joatham begat Achaz; and Achaz begat Ezekias;

1:10    希西家生瑪拿西。瑪拿西生亞們。亞們生約西亞。
And Ezekias begat Manasses; and Manasses begat Amon; and Amon begat Josias;

1:11    百姓被遷到巴比倫的時候，約西亞生耶哥尼雅和他的弟兄。
And Josias begat Jechonias and his brethren, about the time they were carried away to Babylon:

1:12    遷到巴比倫之後，耶哥尼雅生撒拉鐵。撒拉鐵生所羅巴伯。
And after they were brought to Babylon, Jechonias begat Salathiel; and Salathiel begat Zorobabel;

1:13    所羅巴伯生亞比玉。亞比玉生以利亞敬。以利亞敬生亞所。
And Zorobabel begat Abiud; and Abiud begat Eliakim; and Eliakim begat Azor;

1:14    亞所生撒督。撒督生亞金。亞金生以律。
And Azor begat Sadoc; and Sadoc begat Achim; and Achim begat Eliud;

1:15    以律生以利亞撒。以利亞撒生馬但。馬但生雅各。
And Eliud begat Eleazar; and Eleazar begat Matthan; and Matthan begat Jacob;

1:16    雅各生約瑟，就是馬利亞的丈夫。那稱為基督的耶穌，是從馬利亞生的。
And Jacob begat Joseph the husband of Mary, of whom was born Jesus, who is called Christ.

1:17    這樣，從亞伯拉罕到大衛，共有十四代。從大衛到遷至巴比倫的時候，也有十四代。從遷至巴比倫的時候到基督，又有十四代。
So all the generations from Abraham to David are fourteen generations; and from David until the carrying away into Babylon are fourteen generations; and from the carrying away into Babylon unto Christ are fourteen generations.

1:18    耶穌基督降生的事，記在下面。他母親馬利亞已經許配了約瑟，還沒有迎娶，馬利亞就從聖靈懷了孕。
Now the birth of Jesus Christ was on this wise: When as his mother Mary was espoused to Joseph, before they came together, she was found with child of the Holy Ghost.

1:19    他丈夫約瑟是個義人，不願意明明的羞辱他，想暗暗的把他休了。
Then Joseph her husband, being a just man, and not willing to make her a publick example, was minded to put her away privily.

1:20    正思念這事的時候，有主的使者向他夢中顯現，說大衛的子孫約瑟，不要怕，只管娶過你的妻子馬利亞來。因他所懷的孕，是從聖靈來的。
But while he thought on these things, behold, the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a dream, saying, Joseph, thou son of David, fear not to take unto thee Mary thy wife: for that which is conceived in her is of the Holy Ghost.

1:21    他將要生一個兒子。你要給他起名叫耶穌。因他要將自己的百姓從罪惡裡救出來。
And she shall bring forth a son, and thou shalt call his name JESUS: for he shall save his people from their sins.

1:22    這一切的事成就，是要應驗主藉先知所說的話，
Now all this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying,

1:23    說，必有童女，懷孕生子，人要稱他的名為以馬內利。（以馬內利翻出來，就是神與我們同在
Behold, a virgin shall be with child, and shall bring forth a son, and they shall call his name Emmanuel, which being interpreted is, God with us.

1:24    約瑟醒了，起來，就遵著主使者的吩咐，把妻子娶過來。
Then Joseph being raised from sleep did as the angel of the Lord had bidden him, and took unto him his wife:

1:25    只是沒有和他同房，等他生了兒子，（有古卷作等他生了頭胎的兒子）就給他起名叫耶穌。
And knew her not till she had brought forth her firstborn son: and he called his name JESUS.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


2:1    當希律王的時候，耶穌生在猶太的伯利恆。有幾個博士從東方來到耶路撒冷，說，
Now when Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judaea in the days of Herod the king, behold, there came wise men from the east to Jerusalem,

2:2    那生下來作猶太人之王的在那裡。我們在東方看見他的星，特來拜他。
Saying, Where is he that is born King of the Jews? for we have seen his star in the east, and are come to worship him.

2:3    希律王聽見了，就心裡不安。耶路撒冷合城的人，也都不安。
When Herod the king had heard these things, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him.

2:4    他就召齊了祭司長和民間的文士，問他們說，基督當生在何處。
And when he had gathered all the chief priests and scribes of the people together, he demanded of them where Christ should be born.

2:5    他們回答說，在猶太的伯利恆。因為有先知記著說，
And they said unto him, In Bethlehem of Judaea: for thus it is written by the prophet,

2:6    猶大地的伯利恆阿，你在猶大諸城中，並不是最小的。因為將來有一位君王，要從你那裡出來，牧養我以色列民。
And thou Bethlehem, in the land of Juda, art not the least among the princes of Juda: for out of thee shall come a Governor, that shall rule my people Israel.

2:7    當下希律暗暗的召了博士來，細問那星是什麼時候出現的。
Then Herod, when he had privily called the wise men, enquired of them diligently what time the star appeared.

2:8    就差他們往伯利恆去，說，你們去仔細尋訪那小孩子。尋到了，就來報信，我也好去拜他。
And he sent them to Bethlehem, and said, Go and search diligently for the young child; and when ye have found him, bring me word again, that I may come and worship him also.

2:9    他們聽見王的話，就去了。在東方所看見的那星，忽然在他們前頭行，直行到小孩子的地方，就在上頭停住了。
When they had heard the king, they departed; and, lo, the star, which they saw in the east, went before them, till it came and stood over where the young child was.

2:10    他們看見那星，就大大的歡喜。
When they saw the star, they rejoiced with exceeding great joy.

2:11    進了房子，看見小孩子和他母親馬利亞，就俯伏拜那小孩子，揭開寶盒，拿黃金，乳香，沒藥為禮物獻給他。
And when they were come into the house, they saw the young child with Mary his mother, and fell down, and worshipped him: and when they had opened their treasures, they presented unto him gifts; gold, and frankincense, and myrrh.

2:12    博士因為在夢中被主指示，不要回去見希律，就從別的路回本地去了。
And being warned of God in a dream that they should not return to Herod, they departed into their own country another way.

2:13    他們去後，有主的使者向約瑟夢中顯現，說，起來，帶著小孩子同他母親，逃往埃及，住在那裡，等我吩咐你。因為希律必尋梢小孩子要除滅他。
And when they were departed, behold, the angel of the Lord appeareth to Joseph in a dream, saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and flee into Egypt, and be thou there until I bring thee word: for Herod will seek the young child to destroy him.

2:14    約瑟就起來，夜間帶著小孩子和他母親往埃及去。
When he arose, he took the young child and his mother by night, and departed into Egypt:

2:15    住在那裡，直到希律死了。這是要應驗主藉著先知所說的話，說，我從埃及召出我的兒子來。
And was there until the death of Herod: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken of the Lord by the prophet, saying, Out of Egypt have I called my son.

2:16    希律見自己被博士愚弄，就大大發怒，差人將伯利恆城裡，並四境所有的男孩，照著他向博士仔細查問的時候，凡兩歲以裡的，都殺盡了。
Then Herod, when he saw that he was mocked of the wise men, was exceeding wroth, and sent forth, and slew all the children that were in Bethlehem, and in all the coasts thereof, from two years old and under, according to the time which he had diligently enquired of the wise men.

2:17    這就應了先知耶利米的話，說，
Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying,

2:18    在拉瑪聽見號？？大哭的聲音，是拉結哭他兒女，不肯受安慰，因為他們都不在了。
In Rama was there a voice heard, lamentation, and weeping, and great mourning, Rachel weeping for her children, and would not be comforted, because they are not.

2:19    希律死了以後，有主的使者，在埃及向約瑟夢中顯現，說，
But when Herod was dead, behold, an angel of the Lord appeareth in a dream to Joseph in Egypt,

2:20    起來，帶著小孩子和他母親往以色列地去。因為要害小孩子性命的人已經死了。
Saying, Arise, and take the young child and his mother, and go into the land of Israel: for they are dead which sought the young child's life.

2:21    約瑟就起來，把小孩子和他母親帶到以色列地去。
And he arose, and took the young child and his mother, and came into the land of Israel.

2:22    只因聽見亞基老接著他父親希律作了猶太王，就怕往那裡去。又在夢中被主指示，便往加利利境內去了。
But when he heard that Archelaus did reign in Judaea in the room of his father Herod, he was afraid to go thither: notwithstanding, being warned of God in a dream, he turned aside into the parts of Galilee:

2:23    到了一座城，名叫拿撒勒，就住在那裡。這要應驗先知所說，他將為拿撒勒人的話了。
And he came and dwelt in a city called Nazareth: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophets, He shall be called a Nazarene.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


3:1    那時，有施洗的約翰出來，在猶太的曠野傳道，說，
In those days came John the Baptist, preaching in the wilderness of Judaea,

3:2    天國近了，你們應當悔改。
And saying, Repent ye: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

3:3    這人就是先知以賽亞所說的，他說，在曠野有人聲喊著說，豫備主的道，修直他的路。
For this is he that was spoken of by the prophet Esaias, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.

3:4    這約翰身穿駱駝毛的衣服，腰束皮帶，吃的是蝗蟲野蜜。
And the same John had his raiment of camel's hair, and a leathern girdle about his loins; and his meat was locusts and wild honey.

3:5    那時，耶路撒冷和猶太全地，並約旦河一帶地方的人，都出去到約翰那裡。
Then went out to him Jerusalem, and all Judaea, and all the region round about Jordan,

3:6    承認他們的罪，在約旦河裡受他的洗。
And were baptized of him in Jordan, confessing their sins.

3:7    約翰看見許多法利賽人和撒都該人，也來受洗，就對他們說，毒蛇的種類，誰指示你們逃避將來的忿怒呢。
But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees come to his baptism, he said unto them, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?

3:8    你們要結出果子來，與悔改的心相稱。
Bring forth therefore fruits meet for repentance:

3:9    不要自己心裡說，有亞伯拉罕為我們的祖宗。我告訴你們，神能從這些石頭中給亞伯拉罕興起子孫來。
And think not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, that God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.

3:10    現在斧子已經放在樹根上，凡不結好果子的樹，就砍下來，丟在火裡。
And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: therefore every tree which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.

3:11    我是用水給你們施洗，叫你們悔改。但那在我以後來的，能力比我更大，我就是給他提鞋，也不配。他要用聖靈與火給你們施洗。
I indeed baptize you with water unto repentance: but he that cometh after me is mightier than I, whose shoes I am not worthy to bear: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost, and with fire:

3:12    他手裡拿著簸箕，要揚淨他的場，把麥子收在倉裡，把糠用不滅的火燒盡了。
Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and gather his wheat into the garner; but he will burn up the chaff with unquenchable fire.

3:13    當下，耶穌從加利利來到約旦河，見了約翰，要受他的洗。
Then cometh Jesus from Galilee to Jordan unto John, to be baptized of him.

3:14    約翰想要攔住他，說，我當受你的洗，你反倒上我這裡來嗎。
But John forbad him, saying, I have need to be baptized of thee, and comest thou to me?

3:15    耶穌回答說，你暫且許我。因為我們理當這樣盡諸般的義。（或作禮）於是約翰許了他。
And Jesus answering said unto him, Suffer it to be so now: for thus it becometh us to fulfil all righteousness. Then he suffered him.

3:16    耶穌受了洗，隨既從水裡上來。天忽然為他開了，就看見神的靈，彷佛鴿子降下，落在他身上。
And Jesus, when he was baptized, went up straightway out of the water: and, lo, the heavens were opened unto him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove, and lighting upon him:

3:17    從天上有聲音說，這是我的愛子，我所喜悅的。
And lo a voice from heaven, saying, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


4:1    當時，耶穌被聖靈引到曠野，受魔鬼的試探。
Then was Jesus led up of the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted of the devil.

4:2    他禁食四十晝夜，後來就餓了。
And when he had fasted forty days and forty nights, he was afterward an hungred.

4:3    那試探人的進前來對他說，你若是神的兒子，可以吩咐這些石頭變成食物。
And when the tempter came to him, he said, If thou be the Son of God, command that these stones be made bread.

4:4    耶穌卻回答說，經上記著說，人活著，不是單靠食物，乃是靠神口裡所出的一切話。
But he answered and said, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of God.

4:5    魔鬼就帶他進了聖城，叫他站在殿頂上，（頂原文作翅）
Then the devil taketh him up into the holy city, and setteth him on a pinnacle of the temple,

4:6    對他說，你若是神的兒子，可以跳下去。因為經上記著說，主要為你吩咐他的使者，用手託著你，免得你的腳碰在石頭上。
And saith unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down: for it is written, He shall give his angels charge concerning thee: and in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.

4:7    耶穌對他說，經上又記著說，不可試探主你的神。
Jesus said unto him, It is written again, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.

4:8    魔鬼又帶他上了一座最高的山，將世上的萬國，與萬國的榮華，都指給他看，
Again, the devil taketh him up into an exceeding high mountain, and sheweth him all the kingdoms of the world, and the glory of them;

4:9    對他說，你若俯伏拜我，我就把這一切都賜給你。
And saith unto him, All these things will I give thee, if thou wilt fall down and worship me.

4:10    耶穌說，撒但退去吧。（撒但就是抵當的意思乃魔鬼的別名）因為經上記著說，當拜主你的神，單要事奉他。
Then saith Jesus unto him, Get thee hence, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.

4:11    於是魔鬼離了耶穌，有天使來伺候他。
Then the devil leaveth him, and, behold, angels came and ministered unto him.

4:12    耶穌聽見約翰下了監，就退到加利利去。
Now when Jesus had heard that John was cast into prison, he departed into Galilee;

4:13    後又離開拿撒勒，往迦百農去，就住在那裡。那地方靠海，在西布倫和拿弗他利的邊界上。
And leaving Nazareth, he came and dwelt in Capernaum, which is upon the sea coast, in the borders of Zabulon and Nephthalim:

4:14    這是要應驗先知以賽亞的話，
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying,

4:15    說，西布倫地，拿弗他利地，就是沿海的路，約旦河外，外邦人的加利利地。
The land of Zabulon, and the land of Nephthalim, by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles;

4:16    那坐在黑暗裡的百姓，看見了大光，坐在死蔭之地的人，有光發現照著他們。
The people which sat in darkness saw great light; and to them which sat in the region and shadow of death light is sprung up.

4:17    從那時候耶穌就傳起道來，說，天國近了，你們應當悔改。
From that time Jesus began to preach, and to say, Repent: for the kingdom of heaven is at hand.

4:18    耶穌在加利利海邊行走，看見弟兄二人，就是那稱呼彼得的西門，和他的兄弟安得烈，在海里撒網。他們本是打魚的。
And Jesus, walking by the sea of Galilee, saw two brethren, Simon called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.

4:19    耶穌對他們說，來跟從我，我要叫你們得人如得魚一樣。
And he saith unto them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men.

4:20    他們就立刻舍了網，跟從了他。
And they straightway left their nets, and followed him.

4:21    從那裡往前走，又看見弟兄二人，就是西庇太的兒子雅各，和他兄弟約翰，同他們的父親西庇太在船上補網。耶穌就招呼他們。
And going on from thence, he saw other two brethren, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in a ship with Zebedee their father, mending their nets; and he called them.

4:22    他們立刻舍了船，別了父親，跟從了耶穌。
And they immediately left the ship and their father, and followed him.

4:23    耶穌走遍加利利，在各會堂裡教訓人，傳天國的福音，醫治百姓各樣的病症。
And Jesus went about all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing all manner of sickness and all manner of disease among the people.

4:24    他的名聲就傳遍了敘利亞。那裡的人把一切害病的，就是害各樣疾病，各樣疼痛的，和被鬼附的，癲癇的，癱瘓的，都帶了來，耶穌就治好了他們。
And his fame went throughout all Syria: and they brought unto him all sick people that were taken with divers diseases and torments, and those which were possessed with devils, and those which were lunatick, and those that had the palsy; and he healed them.

4:25    當下，有許多人從加利利，低加波利，耶路撒冷，猶太，約旦河外，來跟從他。
And there followed him great multitudes of people from Galilee, and from Decapolis, and from Jerusalem, and from Judaea, and from beyond Jordan.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


5:1    耶穌看見這許多人，就上了山，既已坐下，門徒到他跟前來。
And seeing the multitudes, he went up into a mountain: and when he was set, his disciples came unto him:

5:2    他就開口教訓他們說，
And he opened his mouth, and taught them, saying,

5:3    虛心的人有福了，因為天國是他們的。
Blessed are the poor in spirit: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.

5:4    哀慟的人有福了，因為他們必得安慰。
Blessed are they that mourn: for they shall be comforted.

5:5    溫柔的人有福了，因為他們必承受地土。
Blessed are the meek: for they shall inherit the earth.

5:6    飢渴慕義的人有福了，因為他們必得飽足。
Blessed are they which do hunger and thirst after righteousness: for they shall be filled.

5:7    憐恤人的人有福了，因為他們必蒙憐恤。
Blessed are the merciful: for they shall obtain mercy.

5:8    清心的人有福了，因為他們必得見神。
Blessed are the pure in heart: for they shall see God.

5:9    使人和睦的人有福了，因為他們必稱為神的兒子。
Blessed are the peacemakers: for they shall be called the children of God.

5:10    為義受逼迫的人有福了，因為天國是他們的。
Blessed are they which are persecuted for righteousness' sake: for theirs is the kingdom of heaven.



5:11    人若因我辱罵你們，逼迫你們，捏造各樣壞話毀謗你們，你們就有福了。
Blessed are ye, when men shall revile you, and persecute you, and shall say all manner of evil against you falsely, for my sake.

5:12    應當歡喜快樂，因為你們在天上的賞賜是大的。在你們以前的先知，人也是這樣逼迫他們。
Rejoice, and be exceeding glad: for great is your reward in heaven: for so persecuted they the prophets which were before you.

5:13    你們是世上的鹽。鹽若失了味，怎能叫他再鹹呢。以後無用，不過丟在外面，被人踐踏了。
Ye are the salt of the earth: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be salted? it is thenceforth good for nothing, but to be cast out, and to be trodden under foot of men.

5:14    你們是世上的光。城造在山上，是不能隱藏的。
Ye are the light of the world. A city that is set on an hill cannot be hid.

5:15    人點燈，不放在鬥底下，是放在燈臺上，就照亮一家的人。
Neither do men light a candle, and put it under a bushel, but on a candlestick; and it giveth light unto all that are in the house.

5:16    你們的光也當這樣照在人前，叫他們看見你們的好行為，便將榮耀歸給你們在天上的父。
Let your light so shine before men, that they may see your good works, and glorify your Father which is in heaven.

5:17    弄想我來要廢掉律法和先知。我來不是要廢掉，乃是要成全。
Think not that I am come to destroy the law, or the prophets: I am not come to destroy, but to fulfil.

5:18    我實在告訴你們，就是到天地都廢去了，律法的一點一畫也不能廢去，都要成全。
For verily I say unto you, Till heaven and earth pass, one jot or one tittle shall in no wise pass from the law, till all be fulfilled.

5:19    所以無論何人廢掉這誡命中最小的一條，又教訓人這樣作，他在天國要稱為最小的。但無論何人遵行這誡命，又教訓人遵行，他在天國要稱為大的。
Whosoever therefore shall break one of these least commandments, and shall teach men so, he shall be called the least in the kingdom of heaven: but whosoever shall do and teach them, the same shall be called great in the kingdom of heaven.

5:20    我告訴你們，你們的義，若不勝於文士和法利賽人的義，斷不能進天國。
For I say unto you, That except your righteousness shall exceed the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, ye shall in no case enter into the kingdom of heaven.

5:21    你們聽見有吩咐古人的話，說，不可殺人，又說，凡殺人的，難免受審判。
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not kill; and whosoever shall kill shall be in danger of the judgment:

5:22    只是我告訴你們，凡向弟兄動怒的，難免受審判。（有古卷在凡字下添無緣無故的五字）凡罵弟兄是拉加的，難免公會的審斷。凡罵弟兄是魔利的，難免地獄的火。
But I say unto you, That whosoever is angry with his brother without a cause shall be in danger of the judgment: and whosoever shall say to his brother, Raca, shall be in danger of the council: but whosoever shall say, Thou fool, shall be in danger of hell fire.

5:23    所以你在祭壇上獻禮物的時候，若想起弟兄向你懷怨，
Therefore if thou bring thy gift to the altar, and there rememberest that thy brother hath ought against thee;

5:24    就把禮物留在壇前，先去同弟兄和好，然後來獻禮物。
Leave there thy gift before the altar, and go thy way; first be reconciled to thy brother, and then come and offer thy gift.

5:25    你同告你的對頭還在路上，就趕緊與他和息。恐怕他把你送給審判官，審判官交付衙役，你就下在監裡了。
Agree with thine adversary quickly, whiles thou art in the way with him; lest at any time the adversary deliver thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and thou be cast into prison.

5:26    我實在告訴你，若有一文錢沒有還清，你斷不能從那裡出來。
Verily I say unto thee, Thou shalt by no means come out thence, till thou hast paid the uttermost farthing.

5:27    你們聽見有話說，不可姦淫。
Ye have heard that it was said by them of old time, Thou shalt not commit adultery:

5:28    只是我告訴你們，凡看見婦女就動淫念的，這人心裡已經與他犯奸淫了。
But I say unto you, That whosoever looketh on a woman to lust after her hath committed adultery with her already in his heart.

5:29    若是你的右眼叫你跌倒，就挖出來丟掉。寧可失去百體中的一體，不叫全身丟在地獄裡。
And if thy right eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

5:30    若是右手叫你跌倒，就砍下來丟掉。寧可失去百體中的一體，不叫全身下地獄。
And if thy right hand offend thee, cut it off, and cast it from thee: for it is profitable for thee that one of thy members should perish, and not that thy whole body should be cast into hell.

5:31    又有話說，人若休妻，就當給他休書。
It hath been said, Whosoever shall put away his wife, let him give her a writing of divorcement:

5:32    只是我告訴你們，凡休妻的，若不是為淫亂的緣故，就是叫他作淫婦了。人若娶這被休的婦人，也是犯奸淫了。
But I say unto you, That whosoever shall put away his wife, saving for the cause of fornication, causeth her to commit adultery: and whosoever shall marry her that is divorced committeth adultery.

5:33    你們又聽見有吩咐古人的話，說，不可背誓，所起的誓，總要向主謹守。
Again, ye have heard that it hath been said by them of old time, Thou shalt not forswear thyself, but shalt perform unto the Lord thine oaths:

5:34    只是我告訴你們，什麼誓都不可起，不可指著天起誓，因為天是神的座位。
But I say unto you, Swear not at all; neither by heaven; for it is God's throne:

5:35    不可指著地起誓，因為地是他的腳凳。也不可指著耶路撒冷起誓，因為耶路撒冷是大君的京城。
Nor by the earth; for it is his footstool: neither by Jerusalem; for it is the city of the great King.

5:36    又不可指著你的頭起誓，因為你不能使一根頭髮變黑變白了。
Neither shalt thou swear by thy head, because thou canst not make one hair white or black.

5:37    你們的話，是，就說是，不是，就說不是。若再多說，就是出於那惡者。（或作是從惡裡出來的）
But let your communication be, Yea, yea; Nay, nay: for whatsoever is more than these cometh of evil.

5:38    你們聽見有話說，以眼還眼，以牙還牙。
Ye have heard that it hath been said, An eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth:

5:39    只是我告訴你們，不要與惡人作對。有人打你的右臉，連左臉也轉過來由他打。
But I say unto you, That ye resist not evil: but whosoever shall smite thee on thy right cheek, turn to him the other also.

5:40    有人想要告你，要拿你的裡衣，連外衣也由他拿去。
And if any man will sue thee at the law, and take away thy coat, let him have thy cloak also.

5:41    有人強逼你走一里路，你就同他走二里。
And whosoever shall compel thee to go a mile, go with him twain.

5:42    有求你的，就給他。有向你借貨的，不可推辭。
Give to him that asketh thee, and from him that would borrow of thee turn not thou away.

5:43    你們聽見有話說，當愛你的鄰舍，恨你的仇敵。
Ye have heard that it hath been said, Thou shalt love thy neighbour, and hate thine enemy.

5:44    只是我告訴你們，要愛你們的仇敵。為那逼迫你們的禱告。
But I say unto you, Love your enemies, bless them that curse you, do good to them that hate you, and pray for them which despitefully use you, and persecute you;

5:45    這樣，就可以作你們天父的兒子。因為他叫日頭照好人，也照歹人，降雨給義人，也給不義的人。
That ye may be the children of your Father which is in heaven: for he maketh his sun to rise on the evil and on the good, and sendeth rain on the just and on the unjust.

5:46    你們若單愛那愛你們的人。有什麼賞賜呢。就是稅吏不也是這樣行嗎。
For if ye love them which love you, what reward have ye? do not even the publicans the same?

5:47    你們若單請你弟兄的安，比人有什麼長處呢。就是外邦人不也是這樣行嗎。
And if ye salute your brethren only, what do ye more than others? do not even the publicans so?

5:48    所以你們要完全，像你們的天父完全一樣。
Be ye therefore perfect, even as your Father which is in heaven is perfect.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


6:1    你們要小心，不可將善事行在人的面前，故意叫他們看見。若是這樣，就不能得你們天父的賞賜了。
Take heed that ye do not your alms before men, to be seen of them: otherwise ye have no reward of your Father which is in heaven.

6:2    所以你施捨的時候，不可在你前面吹號，像那假冒為善的人，在會堂裡和街道上所行的，故意要得人的榮耀。我實在告訴你們，他們已經得了他們的賞賜。
Therefore when thou doest thine alms, do not sound a trumpet before thee, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets, that they may have glory of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.

6:3    你施捨的時候，不要叫左手知道右手所作的。
But when thou doest alms, let not thy left hand know what thy right hand doeth:

6:4    要叫你施捨的事行在暗中，你父在暗中察看，必報答你。（有古卷作必在明處報答你）
That thine alms may be in secret: and thy Father which seeth in secret himself shall reward thee openly.

6:5    你們禱告的時候，不可像那假冒為善的人，愛站在會堂裡，和十字路口上禱告，故意叫人看見。我實在告訴你們，他們已經得了他們的賞賜。
And when thou prayest, thou shalt not be as the hypocrites are: for they love to pray standing in the synagogues and in the corners of the streets, that they may be seen of men. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.

6:6    你禱告的時候，要進你的內屋，關上門，禱告你在暗中的父，你父在暗中察看，必然報答你。
But thou, when thou prayest, enter into thy closet, and when thou hast shut thy door, pray to thy Father which is in secret; and thy Father which seeth in secret shall reward thee openly.

6:7    你們禱告，不可像外邦人，用許多重複話。他們以為話多了必蒙垂聽。
But when ye pray, use not vain repetitions, as the heathen do: for they think that they shall be heard for their much speaking.

6:8    你們不可效法他們。因為你們沒有祈求以先，你們所需用的，你們的父早已知道了。
Be not ye therefore like unto them: for your Father knoweth what things ye have need of, before ye ask him.

6:9    所以你們禱告，要這樣說，我們在天上的父，願人都尊你的名為聖。
After this manner therefore pray ye: Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name.

6:10    願你的國降臨，願你的旨意行在地上，如同行在天上。
Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done in earth, as it is in heaven.

6:11    我們日用的飲食，今日賜給我們。
Give us this day our daily bread.

6:12    免我們的債，如同我們免了人的債。
And forgive us our debts, as we forgive our debtors.

6:13    不叫我們遇見試探，救我們脫離凶惡，（或作脫離惡者）因為國度，權柄，榮耀，全是你的，直到永遠，阿們。（有古卷無因為至阿們等字）
And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil: For thine is the kingdom, and the power, and the glory, for ever. Amen.

6:14    你們饒恕人的過犯，你們的天父也必饒恕你們的過犯。
For if ye forgive men their trespasses, your heavenly Father will also forgive you:

6:15    你們不饒恕人的過犯，你們的天父也必不饒恕你們的過犯。
But if ye forgive not men their trespasses, neither will your Father forgive your trespasses.

6:16    你們禁食的時候，不可像那假冒為善的人，臉上帶著愁容。因為他們把臉弄得難看，故意叫人看出他們是禁食。我實在告訴你們，他們已經得了他們的賞賜。
Moreover when ye fast, be not, as the hypocrites, of a sad countenance: for they disfigure their faces, that they may appear unto men to fast. Verily I say unto you, They have their reward.

6:17    你們禁食的時候，要梳頭洗臉，
But thou, when thou fastest, anoint thine head, and wash thy face;

6:18    不要叫人看出你禁食來，只叫你暗中的父看見。你父在暗中察看，必然報答你。
That thou appear not unto men to fast, but unto thy Father which is in secret: and thy Father, which seeth in secret, shall reward thee openly.

6:19    不要為自己積攢財寶在地上，地上有蟲子咬，能鏽壞，也有賊挖窟窿來偷。
Lay not up for yourselves treasures upon earth, where moth and rust doth corrupt, and where thieves break through and steal:

6:20    只要積攢財寶在天上，天上沒有蟲子咬，不能鏽壞，也沒有賊挖窟窿來偷。
But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust doth corrupt, and where thieves do not break through nor steal:

6:21    因為你的財寶在那裡，你的心也在那裡。
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

6:22    眼睛就是身上的燈。你的眼睛若了亮，全身就光明。
The light of the body is the eye: if therefore thine eye be single, thy whole body shall be full of light.

6:23    你的眼睛若昏花，全身就黑暗。你裡頭的光若黑暗了，那黑暗是何等大呢。
But if thine eye be evil, thy whole body shall be full of darkness. If therefore the light that is in thee be darkness, how great is that darkness!

6:24    一個人不能事奉兩個主。不是惡這個愛那個，就是重這個輕那個。你們不能又事奉神，又事奉瑪門。（瑪門是財利的意思）
No man can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.

6:25    所以我告訴你們，不要為生命憂慮，吃什麼，喝什麼。為身體憂慮，穿什麼。生命不勝於飲食嗎，身體不勝於衣裳嗎。
Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink; nor yet for your body, what ye shall put on. Is not the life more than meat, and the body than raiment?

6:26    你們看那天上的飛鳥，也不種，也不收，也不積蓄在倉裡，你們的天父尚且養活他。你們不比飛鳥貴重得多嗎。
Behold the fowls of the air: for they sow not, neither do they reap, nor gather into barns; yet your heavenly Father feedeth them. Are ye not much better than they?

6:27    你們那一個能用思慮，使壽數多加一刻呢。（或作使身量多加一肘呢）
Which of you by taking thought can add one cubit unto his stature?

6:28    何必為衣裳憂慮呢。你想野地裡的百合花，怎樣長起來，他也不勞苦，也不紡線。
And why take ye thought for raiment? Consider the lilies of the field, how they grow; they toil not, neither do they spin:

6:29    然而我告訴你們，就是所羅門極榮華的時候，那他所穿戴的，還不如這花一朵呢。
And yet I say unto you, That even Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

6:30    你們這小信的人哪，野地的草，今天還在，明天就丟在爐裡，神還給他這樣的妝飾，何況你們呢。
Wherefore, if God so clothe the grass of the field, which to day is, and to morrow is cast into the oven, shall he not much more clothe you, O ye of little faith?

6:31    所以不要憂慮，說，吃什麼，喝什麼，穿什麼。
Therefore take no thought, saying, What shall we eat? or, What shall we drink? or, Wherewithal shall we be clothed?

6:32    這都是外邦人所求的。你們需用的這一切東西，你們的天父是知道的。
(For after all these things do the Gentiles seek:) for your heavenly Father knoweth that ye have need of all these things.

6:33    你們要先求他的國，和他的義。這些東西都要加給你們了。
But seek ye first the kingdom of God, and his righteousness; and all these things shall be added unto you.

6:34    所以不要為明天憂慮。因為明天自有明天的憂慮。一天的難處一天當就夠了。
Take therefore no thought for the morrow: for the morrow shall take thought for the things of itself. Sufficient unto the day is the evil thereof.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


7:1    你們不要論斷人，免得你們被論斷。
Judge not, that ye be not judged.

7:2    因為你們怎樣論斷人，也必怎樣被論斷。你們用什麼量器量給人，也必用什麼量器量給你們。
For with what judgment ye judge, ye shall be judged: and with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you again.

7:3    為什麼看見你弟兄眼中有刺，卻不想自己眼中有梁木呢。
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but considerest not the beam that is in thine own eye?

7:4    你自己眼中有梁木，怎能對你弟兄說，容我去掉你眼中的刺呢。
Or how wilt thou say to thy brother, Let me pull out the mote out of thine eye; and, behold, a beam is in thine own eye?

7:5    你這假冒為善的人，先去掉自己眼中的梁木，然後才能看得清楚，去掉你弟兄眼中的刺。
Thou hypocrite, first cast out the beam out of thine own eye; and then shalt thou see clearly to cast out the mote out of thy brother's eye.

7:6    不要把聖物給狗，也不要把你們的珍珠丟在豬前，恐怕他踐踏了珍珠，轉過來咬你們。
Give not that which is holy unto the dogs, neither cast ye your pearls before swine, lest they trample them under their feet, and turn again and rend you.

7:7    你們祈求，就給你們。尋梢，就尋見。叩門，就給你們開門。
Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you:

7:8    因為凡祈求的，就得著。尋梢的，就尋見。叩門的，就給他開門。
For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.

7:9    你們中間，誰有兒子求餅，反給他石頭呢。
Or what man is there of you, whom if his son ask bread, will he give him a stone?

7:10    求魚，反給他蛇呢。
Or if he ask a fish, will he give him a serpent?

7:11    你們雖然不好，尚且知道拿好東西給兒女，何況你們在天上的父，豈不更把好東西給求他的人嗎。
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children, how much more shall your Father which is in heaven give good things to them that ask him?

7:12    所以無論何事，你們願意人怎樣待你們，你們也要怎樣待人。因為這就是律法和先知的道理。
Therefore all things whatsoever ye would that men should do to you, do ye even so to them: for this is the law and the prophets.

7:13    你們要進窄門。因為引到滅亡，那門是寬的，路是大的，進去的人也多。
Enter ye in at the strait gate: for wide is the gate, and broad is the way, that leadeth to destruction, and many there be which go in thereat:

7:14    引到永生，那門是窄的，路是小的，找著的人也少。
Because strait is the gate, and narrow is the way, which leadeth unto life, and few there be that find it.

7:15    你們要防備假先知。他們到你們這裡來，外面披著羊皮，裡面卻是殘暴的狼。
Beware of false prophets, which come to you in sheep's clothing, but inwardly they are ravening wolves.

7:16    憑著他們的果子，就可以認出他們來。荊棘上豈能摘葡萄呢。蒺藜裡豈能摘無花果呢。
Ye shall know them by their fruits. Do men gather grapes of thorns, or figs of thistles?

7:17    這樣，凡好樹都結好果子，惟獨壞樹結壞果子。
Even so every good tree bringeth forth good fruit; but a corrupt tree bringeth forth evil fruit.

7:18    好樹不能結壞果子，壞樹不能結好果子。
A good tree cannot bring forth evil fruit, neither can a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.

7:19    凡不結好果子的樹，就砍下來，丟在火裡。
Every tree that bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.

7:20    所以憑著他們的果子，就可以認出他們來。
Wherefore by their fruits ye shall know them.

7:21    凡稱呼我主阿，主阿的人，不能都進天國。惟獨遵行我天父旨意的人，才能進去。
Not every one that saith unto me, Lord, Lord, shall enter into the kingdom of heaven; but he that doeth the will of my Father which is in heaven.

7:22    當那日必有許多人對我說，主阿，主阿，我們不是奉你的名傳道，奉你的名趕鬼，奉你的名行許多異能嗎。
Many will say to me in that day, Lord, Lord, have we not prophesied in thy name? and in thy name have cast out devils? and in thy name done many wonderful works?

7:23    我就明明的告訴他們說，我從來不認識你們，你們這些作惡的人，離開我去吧。
And then will I profess unto them, I never knew you: depart from me, ye that work iniquity.

7:24    所以凡聽見我這話就去行的，好比一個聰明人，把房子蓋在磐石上。
Therefore whosoever heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them, I will liken him unto a wise man, which built his house upon a rock:

7:25    雨淋，水衝，風吹，撞著那房子，房子總不倒塌。因為根基立在磐石上。
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell not: for it was founded upon a rock.

7:26    凡聽見我這話不去行的，好比一個無知的人，把房子蓋在沙土上。
And every one that heareth these sayings of mine, and doeth them not, shall be likened unto a foolish man, which built his house upon the sand:

7:27    雨淋，水衝，風吹，撞著那房子，房子就倒塌了。並且倒塌得很大。
And the rain descended, and the floods came, and the winds blew, and beat upon that house; and it fell: and great was the fall of it.

7:28    耶穌講完了這些話，眾人都希奇他的教訓。
And it came to pass, when Jesus had ended these sayings, the people were astonished at his doctrine:

7:29    因為他教訓他們，正像有權柄的人，不像他們的文士。
For he taught them as one having authority, and not as the scribes.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


8:1    耶穌下了山，有許多人跟著他。
When he was come down from the mountain, great multitudes followed him.

8:2    有一個長大麻瘋的來拜他說，主若肯，必能叫我潔淨了。
And, behold, there came a leper and worshipped him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

8:3    耶穌伸手摸他說，我肯，你潔淨了吧。他的大麻瘋立刻就潔淨了。
And Jesus put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will; be thou clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed.

8:4    耶穌對他說，你切不可告訴人。只要去把身體給祭司察看，獻上摩西所吩咐的禮物，對眾人作證據。
And Jesus saith unto him, See thou tell no man; but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer the gift that Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.

8:5    耶穌進了迦百農，有一個百夫長進前來，求他說，
And when Jesus was entered into Capernaum, there came unto him a centurion, beseeching him,

8:6    主阿，我的僕人害癱瘓病，躺在家裡，甚是疼苦。
And saying, Lord, my servant lieth at home sick of the palsy, grievously tormented.

8:7    耶穌說，我去醫治他。
And Jesus saith unto him, I will come and heal him.

8:8    百夫長回答說，主阿，你到我舍下，我不敢當。只要你說一句話，我的僕人就必好了。
The centurion answered and said, Lord, I am not worthy that thou shouldest come under my roof: but speak the word only, and my servant shall be healed.

8:9    因為我在人的權下，也有兵在我以下。對這個說，去，他就去。對那個說，來，他就來。對我的僕人說，你作這事，他就去作。
For I am a man under authority, having soldiers under me: and I say to this man, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

8:10    耶穌聽見就希奇，對跟從他的人說，我實在告訴你們，這嗎大的信心，就是在以色列中，我也沒有遇見過。
When Jesus heard it, he marvelled, and said to them that followed, Verily I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.

8:11    我又告訴你們，從東從西，將有許多人來，在天國裡與亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各，一同坐席。
And I say unto you, That many shall come from the east and west, and shall sit down with Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, in the kingdom of heaven.

8:12    惟有本國的子民，竟被趕到外邊黑暗裡去。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
But the children of the kingdom shall be cast out into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

8:13    耶穌對百夫長說，你回去吧。照你的信心，給你成全了。那時，他的僕人就好了。
And Jesus said unto the centurion, Go thy way; and as thou hast believed, so be it done unto thee. And his servant was healed in the selfsame hour.

8:14    耶穌到了彼得家裡，見彼得的岳母害熱病躺著。
And when Jesus was come into Peter's house, he saw his wife's mother laid, and sick of a fever.

8:15    耶穌把他的手一摸，熱就退了。他就起來服事耶穌。
And he touched her hand, and the fever left her: and she arose, and ministered unto them.

8:16    到了晚上，有人帶著許多被鬼附的，來到耶穌跟前，他只用一句話，就把鬼都趕出去。並且治好了一切有病的人。
When the even was come, they brought unto him many that were possessed with devils: and he cast out the spirits with his word, and healed all that were sick:

8:17    這是要應驗先知以賽亞的話，說，他代替我們的軟弱，擔當我們的疾病。
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying, Himself took our infirmities, and bare our sicknesses.

8:18    耶穌見許多人圍著他，就吩咐渡到那邊去。
Now when Jesus saw great multitudes about him, he gave commandment to depart unto the other side.

8:19    有一個文士來，對他說，夫子，你無論往那裡去，我要跟從你。
And a certain scribe came, and said unto him, Master, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.

8:20    耶穌說，狐狸有洞，天空的飛鳥有窩，人子卻沒有枕頭的地方。
And Jesus saith unto him, The foxes have holes, and the birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.

8:21    又有一個門徒對耶穌說，主阿，容我先回去埋葬我的父親。
And another of his disciples said unto him, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.

8:22    耶穌說，任憑死人埋葬他們的死人，你跟從我吧。
But Jesus said unto him, Follow me; and let the dead bury their dead.

8:23    耶穌上了船，門徒跟著他。
And when he was entered into a ship, his disciples followed him.

8:24    海里忽然起了暴風，甚至船被波浪掩蓋。耶穌卻睡著了。
And, behold, there arose a great tempest in the sea, insomuch that the ship was covered with the waves: but he was asleep.

8:25    門徒來叫醒了他，說，主阿，救我們，我們喪命喇。
And his disciples came to him, and awoke him, saying, Lord, save us: we perish.

8:26    耶穌說，你們這小信的人哪，為什麼膽怯呢。於是起來，斥責風和海，風和海就大大的平靜了。
And he saith unto them, Why are ye fearful, O ye of little faith? Then he arose, and rebuked the winds and the sea; and there was a great calm.

8:27    眾人希奇說，這是怎樣的人，連風和海也聽從他了。
But the men marvelled, saying, What manner of man is this, that even the winds and the sea obey him!

8:28    耶穌既渡到那邊去，來到加大拉人的地方，就有兩個被鬼附的人，從墳塋裡出來迎著他，極其凶猛，甚至沒有人能從那條路上經過。
And when he was come to the other side into the country of the Gergesenes, there met him two possessed with devils, coming out of the tombs, exceeding fierce, so that no man might pass by that way.

8:29    他們喊著說，神的兒子，我們與你有什麼相干。時候還沒有到，你就上這裡來叫我們受苦嗎。
And, behold, they cried out, saying, What have we to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God? art thou come hither to torment us before the time?

8:30    離他們很遠，有一大群豬吃食。
And there was a good way off from them an herd of many swine feeding.

8:31    鬼就央求耶穌說，若把我們趕出去，就打發我們進入豬群去吧。
So the devils besought him, saying, If thou cast us out, suffer us to go away into the herd of swine.

8:32    耶穌說，去吧。鬼就出來，進入豬群。全群忽然闖下山崖，投在海里淹死了。
And he said unto them, Go. And when they were come out, they went into the herd of swine: and, behold, the whole herd of swine ran violently down a steep place into the sea, and perished in the waters.

8:33    放豬的就逃跑進城，將這一切事，和被鬼附的人所遭遇的，都告訴人。
And they that kept them fled, and went their ways into the city, and told every thing, and what was befallen to the possessed of the devils.



8:34    合城的人，都出來迎見耶穌。既見了，就央求他禮開他們的境界。
And, behold, the whole city came out to meet Jesus: and when they saw him, they besought him that he would depart out of their coasts.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


9:1    耶穌上了船，渡過海，來到自己的城裡。
And he entered into a ship, and passed over, and came into his own city.

9:2    有人用褥子抬著一個癱子，到耶穌跟前來。耶穌見他們的信心，就對癱子說，小子，放心吧。你的罪赦了。
And, behold, they brought to him a man sick of the palsy, lying on a bed: and Jesus seeing their faith said unto the sick of the palsy; Son, be of good cheer; thy sins be forgiven thee.

9:3    有幾個文士心裡說，這個人說僭妄的話了。
And, behold, certain of the scribes said within themselves, This man blasphemeth.

9:4    耶穌知道他們的心意，就說，你為什麼心裡懷著惡念呢。
And Jesus knowing their thoughts said, Wherefore think ye evil in your hearts?

9:5    或說，你的罪赦了。或說，你起來行走。那一樣容易呢。
For whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and walk?

9:6    但要叫你們知道人子在地上有赦罪的權柄，就對癱子說，起來，拿你的褥子回家去吧。
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (then saith he to the sick of the palsy,) Arise, take up thy bed, and go unto thine house.

9:7    那人就起來，回家去了。
And he arose, and departed to his house.

9:8    眾人看見都驚奇，就歸榮耀與神。因為他將這樣的權柄賜給人。
But when the multitudes saw it, they marvelled, and glorified God, which had given such power unto men.

9:9    耶穌從那裡往前走，看見一個人名叫馬太，坐在稅關上，就對他說，你跟從我來。他就起來跟從了耶穌。
And as Jesus passed forth from thence, he saw a man, named Matthew, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he saith unto him, Follow me. And he arose, and followed him.

9:10    耶穌在屋裡坐席的時候，有好些稅吏和罪人來，與耶穌和他的門徒一同坐席。
And it came to pass, as Jesus sat at meat in the house, behold, many publicans and sinners came and sat down with him and his disciples.

9:11    法利賽人看見，就對耶穌的門徒說，你們的先生為什麼和稅吏並罪人一同吃飯呢。
And when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto his disciples, Why eateth your Master with publicans and sinners?

9:12    耶穌聽見，就說，康健的人用不著醫生，有病的人才用得著。
But when Jesus heard that, he said unto them, They that be whole need not a physician, but they that are sick.

9:13    經上說，我喜愛憐恤，不喜愛祭祀。這句話的意思，你們且去揣摩。我來，本不是召義人，乃是召罪人。
But go ye and learn what that meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice: for I am not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

9:14    那時，約翰的門徒來見耶穌說，我們和法利賽人常常禁食，你的門徒倒不禁食，這是為什麼呢。
Then came to him the disciples of John, saying, Why do we and the Pharisees fast oft, but thy disciples fast not?

9:15    耶穌對他們說，新郎和陪伴之人同在的時候，陪伴之人豈能哀慟呢。但日子將到，新郎要離開他們，那時候他們就要禁食。
And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber mourn, as long as the bridegroom is with them? but the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken from them, and then shall they fast.

9:16    沒有人把新布補在舊衣服上。因為所補上的，反帶壞了那衣服，破的就更大了。
No man putteth a piece of new cloth unto an old garment, for that which is put in to fill it up taketh from the garment, and the rent is made worse.

9:17    也沒人把新酒裝在舊皮袋裡。若是這樣，皮袋就裂開，酒漏出來，連皮袋也壞了。惟獨把新酒裝在新皮袋裡，兩樣就都保全了。
Neither do men put new wine into old bottles: else the bottles break, and the wine runneth out, and the bottles perish: but they put new wine into new bottles, and both are preserved.

9:18    耶穌說這話的時候，有一個管會堂的來拜他說，我女兒剛才死了，求你去按手在他身上，他就必活了。
While he spake these things unto them, behold, there came a certain ruler, and worshipped him, saying, My daughter is even now dead: but come and lay thy hand upon her, and she shall live.

9:19    耶穌便起來，跟著他去，門徒也跟了去。
And Jesus arose, and followed him, and so did his disciples.

9:20    有一個女人，患了十二年的血漏來到耶穌背後，摸他的衣裳？？子。
And, behold, a woman, which was diseased with an issue of blood twelve years, came behind him, and touched the hem of his garment:

9:21    因為他心裡說，我只摸他的衣裳，就必痊癒。
For she said within herself, If I may but touch his garment, I shall be whole.

9:22    耶穌轉過來看見他，就說，女兒，放心，你的信救了你。從那時候，女人就痊癒了。
But Jesus turned him about, and when he saw her, he said, Daughter, be of good comfort; thy faith hath made thee whole. And the woman was made whole from that hour.

9:23    耶穌到了管會堂的家裡，看見有吹手，又有許多人亂囔。
And when Jesus came into the ruler's house, and saw the minstrels and the people making a noise,

9:24    就說，退去吧。這閨女不是死了，是睡著了。他們就嗤笑他。
He said unto them, Give place: for the maid is not dead, but sleepeth. And they laughed him to scorn.

9:25    眾人既被攆出，耶穌就進去，拉著閨女的手，閨女便起來了。
But when the people were put forth, he went in, and took her by the hand, and the maid arose.

9:26    於是這風聲傳遍了那地方。
And the fame hereof went abroad into all that land.

9:27    耶穌從那裡往前走，有兩個瞎子跟著他，喊叫說，大衛的子孫，可憐我們吧。
And when Jesus departed thence, two blind men followed him, crying, and saying, Thou son of David, have mercy on us.

9:28    耶穌進了房子，瞎子就來到他跟前，耶穌說，你們信我能作這事嗎。他們說，主阿，我們信。
And when he was come into the house, the blind men came to him: and Jesus saith unto them, Believe ye that I am able to do this? They said unto him, Yea, Lord.

9:29    耶穌就摸他們的眼睛，說，照著你們的信給你們成全了吧。
Then touched he their eyes, saying, According to your faith be it unto you.

9:30    他們的眼睛就開了。耶穌切切的囑咐他們說，你們要小心，不可叫人知道。
And their eyes were opened; and Jesus straitly charged them, saying, See that no man know it.

9:31    他們出去，竟把他的名聲傳遍了那地方。
But they, when they were departed, spread abroad his fame in all that country.

9:32    他們出去的時候，有人將鬼所附的一個啞吧，帶到耶穌跟前來。
As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed with a devil.

9:33    鬼被趕出去，啞吧就說出話來。眾人都希奇說，在以色列中，從來沒有見過這樣的事。
And when the devil was cast out, the dumb spake: and the multitudes marvelled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel.

9:34    法利賽人卻說，他是靠著鬼王趕鬼。
But the Pharisees said, He casteth out devils through the prince of the devils.

9:35    耶穌走遍各城各鄉，在會堂裡教訓人，宣講天國的福音，又醫治各樣的病症。
And Jesus went about all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and preaching the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every sickness and every disease among the people.

9:36    他看見許多的人，就憐憫他們。因為他們困苦流離，如同羊沒有牧人一般。
But when he saw the multitudes, he was moved with compassion on them, because they fainted, and were scattered abroad, as sheep having no shepherd.

9:37    於是對門徒說，要收的莊稼多，作工的人少。
Then saith he unto his disciples, The harvest truly is plenteous, but the labourers are few;

9:38    所以你們當求莊稼的主，打發工人出去，收他的莊稼。
Pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he will send forth labourers into his harvest.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


10:1    耶穌叫了十二個門徒來，給他們權柄，能趕逐汙鬼，並醫治各樣的病症。
And when he had called unto him his twelve disciples, he gave them power against unclean spirits, to cast them out, and to heal all manner of sickness and all manner of disease.

10:2    這十二使徒的名，頭一個叫西門，又稱彼得，還有他兄弟安得烈。西庇太的兒子雅各，和雅各的兄弟約翰。
Now the names of the twelve apostles are these; The first, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother; James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother;

10:3    腓力，和巴多羅買，多馬，和稅吏馬太，亞勒腓的兒子雅各，和達太。
Philip, and Bartholomew; Thomas, and Matthew the publican; James the son of Alphaeus, and Lebbaeus, whose surname was Thaddaeus;

10:4    奮銳黨的西門，還有賣耶穌的加略人猶大。
Simon the Canaanite, and Judas Iscariot, who also betrayed him.

10:5    耶穌差這十二個人去，吩咐他們說，外邦人的路，你們不要走。撒瑪利亞人的城，你們不要進。
These twelve Jesus sent forth, and commanded them, saying, Go not into the way of the Gentiles, and into any city of the Samaritans enter ye not:

10:6    寧可往以色列家迷失的羊那裡去。
But go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel.

10:7    隨走隨傳，說，天國近了。
And as ye go, preach, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand.

10:8    醫治病人，叫死人復活，叫長大麻瘋的潔淨，把鬼趕出去。你們白白的得來，也要白白的捨去。
Heal the sick, cleanse the lepers, raise the dead, cast out devils: freely ye have received, freely give.

10:9    腰袋裡，不要帶金銀銅錢。
Provide neither gold, nor silver, nor brass in your purses,

10:10    行路不要帶口袋，不要帶兩件褂子，也不要帶鞋和柺杖。因為工人得飲食，是應當的。
Nor scrip for your journey, neither two coats, neither shoes, nor yet staves: for the workman is worthy of his meat.

10:11    你們無論進那一城，那一村，要打聽那裡誰是好人，就住在他家，直住到走的時候。
And into whatsoever city or town ye shall enter, enquire who in it is worthy; and there abide till ye go thence.

10:12    進他家裡去，要請他的安。
And when ye come into an house, salute it.

10:13    那家若配得平安，你們所求的平安，就必臨到那家。若不配得，你們所求的平安仍歸你們。
And if the house be worthy, let your peace come upon it: but if it be not worthy, let your peace return to you.

10:14    凡不接待你們，不聽你們的話的人，你們離開那家，或是那城的時候，就把腳上的塵土跺下去。
And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear your words, when ye depart out of that house or city, shake off the dust of your feet.

10:15    我實在告訴你們，當審判的日子，所多瑪和蛾摩拉所受的，比那城還容易受呢。
Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.

10:16    我差你們去，如同羊進入狼群。所以你們要靈巧像蛇，馴良像鴿子。
Behold, I send you forth as sheep in the midst of wolves: be ye therefore wise as serpents, and harmless as doves.

10:17    你們要防備人。因為他們要把你們交給公會，也要在會堂鞭打你們。
But beware of men: for they will deliver you up to the councils, and they will scourge you in their synagogues;

10:18    並且你們要為我的緣故，被送到諸侯君王面前，對他們和外邦人作見證。
And ye shall be brought before governors and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them and the Gentiles.

10:19    你們被交的時候，不要思慮怎樣說話或說什麼話。到那時候，必賜給你們當說的話。
But when they deliver you up, take no thought how or what ye shall speak: for it shall be given you in that same hour what ye shall speak.

10:20    因為不是你們自己說的，乃是你們父的靈在你們裡頭說的。
For it is not ye that speak, but the Spirit of your Father which speaketh in you.

10:21    弟兄要把弟兄，父親要把兒子，送到死地。兒女要與父母為敵，害死他們。
And the brother shall deliver up the brother to death, and the father the child: and the children shall rise up against their parents, and cause them to be put to death.

10:22    並且你們要為我的名，被眾人恨惡，惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that endureth to the end shall be saved.

10:23    有人在這城逼迫你們，就逃到那城去。我實在告訴你們，以色列的城邑，你們還沒有走遍，人子就到了。
But when they persecute you in this city, flee ye into another: for verily I say unto you, Ye shall not have gone over the cities of Israel, till the Son of man be come.

10:24    學生不能高過先生，僕人不能高過主人。
The disciple is not above his master, nor the servant above his lord.

10:25    學生和先生一樣，僕人和主人一樣，也就吧了。人既罵家主是別西卜，何況他的家人呢。（別西卜是鬼王的名）
It is enough for the disciple that he be as his master, and the servant as his lord. If they have called the master of the house Beelzebub, how much more shall they call them of his household?

10:26    所以不要怕他們。因為掩蓋的事，沒有不露出來的。隱藏的事，沒有不被人知道的。
Fear them not therefore: for there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; and hid, that shall not be known.

10:27    我在暗中告訴你們的，你們要在明處說出來。你們耳中所聽的，要在房上宣揚出來。
What I tell you in darkness, that speak ye in light: and what ye hear in the ear, that preach ye upon the housetops.

10:28    那殺身體不能殺靈魂的，不要怕他們。惟有能把身體和靈魂都滅在地獄裡的，正要怕他。
And fear not them which kill the body, but are not able to kill the soul: but rather fear him which is able to destroy both soul and body in hell.

10:29    兩個麻雀，不是賣一分銀子嗎。若是你們的父不許，一個也不能掉在地上。
Are not two sparrows sold for a farthing? and one of them shall not fall on the ground without your Father.

10:30    就是你們的頭髮，也都被數過了。
But the very hairs of your head are all numbered.

10:31    所以不要懼怕。你們比許多麻雀還貴重。
Fear ye not therefore, ye are of more value than many sparrows.

10:32    凡在人面前認我的，我在我天上的父面前，也必認他。
Whosoever therefore shall confess me before men, him will I confess also before my Father which is in heaven.

10:33    凡在人面前不認我的，我在我天上的父面前，也必不認他。
But whosoever shall deny me before men, him will I also deny before my Father which is in heaven.

10:34    你們不要想我來，是叫地上太平。我來並不是叫地上太平，乃是叫地上動刀兵。
Think not that I am come to send peace on earth: I came not to send peace, but a sword.

10:35    因為我來，是叫人與父親生疏，女兒與母親生疏，媳婦與婆婆生疏。
For I am come to set a man at variance against his father, and the daughter against her mother, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.

10:36    人的仇敵，就是自己家裡的人。
And a man's foes shall be they of his own household.

10:37    愛父母過於愛我的，不配作我的門徒，愛兒女過於愛我的，不配作我的門徒。
He that loveth father or mother more than me is not worthy of me: and he that loveth son or daughter more than me is not worthy of me.

10:38    不揹著他的十字架跟從我的，也不配作我的門徒。
And he that taketh not his cross, and followeth after me, is not worthy of me.

10:39    得著生命的，將要失喪生命。為我失喪生命的，將要得著生命。
He that findeth his life shall lose it: and he that loseth his life for my sake shall find it.

10:40    人接待你們，就是接待我。接待我，就是接待那差我來的。
He that receiveth you receiveth me, and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.

10:41    人因為先知的名接待先知，必得先知所得的賞賜，人因為義人的名接待義人，必得義人所得的賞賜。
He that receiveth a prophet in the name of a prophet shall receive a prophet's reward; and he that receiveth a righteous man in the name of a righteous man shall receive a righteous man's reward.

10:42    無論何人，因為門徒的名，只把一杯涼水給這小子裡的一個喝，我實在告訴你們，這人不能不得賞賜。
And whosoever shall give to drink unto one of these little ones a cup of cold water only in the name of a disciple, verily I say unto you, he shall in no wise lose his reward.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


11:1    耶穌吩咐完了十二個門徒，就離開那裡，往各城去傳道教訓人。
And it came to pass, when Jesus had made an end of commanding his twelve disciples, he departed thence to teach and to preach in their cities.

11:2    約翰在監裡聽見基督所作的事，就打發兩個門徒去，
Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two of his disciples,

11:3    問他說，那將要來的是你嗎，還是我們等候別人呢。
And said unto him, Art thou he that should come, or do we look for another?

11:4    耶穌回答說，你們去，把所聽見所看見的事告訴約翰。
Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and shew John again those things which ye do hear and see:

11:5    就是瞎子看見，瘸子行走，長大麻瘋的潔淨，聾子聽見。死人復活，窮人有福音傳給他們。
The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have the gospel preached to them.

11:6    凡不因我跌倒的，就有福了。
And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.

11:7    他們走的時候，耶穌就對眾人講論約翰說，你們從前出到曠野，是要看什麼呢，要看風吹動的蘆葦嗎。
And as they departed, Jesus began to say unto the multitudes concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness to see? A reed shaken with the wind?

11:8    你們出去，到底是要看什麼，要看穿細軟衣服的人嗎，那穿細軟衣服的人，是在王宮裡。
But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? behold, they that wear soft clothing are in kings' houses.

11:9    你們出去，究竟是為什麼，是要看先知嗎。我告訴你們，是的，他比先知大多了。
But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? yea, I say unto you, and more than a prophet.

11:10    經上記著說，我要差遣我的使者在你面前，豫備道路。所說的就是這個人。
For this is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.

11:11    我實在告訴你們，凡婦人所生的，沒有一個興起來大過施洗約翰的。然而天國裡最小的，比他還大。
Verily I say unto you, Among them that are born of women there hath not risen a greater than John the Baptist: notwithstanding he that is least in the kingdom of heaven is greater than he.

11:12    從施洗約翰的時候到如今，天國是努力進入的，努力的人就得著了。
And from the days of John the Baptist until now the kingdom of heaven suffereth violence, and the violent take it by force.

11:13    因為眾先知和律法說預言，到約翰為止。
For all the prophets and the law prophesied until John.

11:14    你們若肯領受，這人就是應當來的以利亞。
And if ye will receive it, this is Elias, which was for to come.

11:15    有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

11:16    我可用什麼比這世代呢。好像孩童坐在街市上，招呼同伴，說，
But whereunto shall I liken this generation? It is like unto children sitting in the markets, and calling unto their fellows,

11:17    我們向你們吹笛，你們不跳舞。我們向你們舉哀，你們不捶胸。
And saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned unto you, and ye have not lamented.

11:18    約翰來了，也不吃，也不喝，人就說他是被鬼附著的。
For John came neither eating nor drinking, and they say, He hath a devil.

11:19    人子來了，也吃，也喝，人又說他是貪食好酒的人，是稅吏罪人的朋友。但智慧之子，總以智慧為是。（有古卷作但智慧在行為上就顯為是）
The Son of man came eating and drinking, and they say, Behold a man gluttonous, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners. But wisdom is justified of her children.

11:20    耶穌在諸城中行了許多異能，那些城的人終不悔改，就在那時候責備他們說，
Then began he to upbraid the cities wherein most of his mighty works were done, because they repented not:

11:21    哥拉汛哪，你有禍了，伯賽大阿，你有禍了，因為在你們中間所行的異能，若行在推羅西頓，他們早已披麻蒙灰悔改了。
Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works, which were done in you, had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago in sackcloth and ashes.

11:22    但我告訴你們，當審判的日子，推羅西頓所受的，比你們還容易呢。
But I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the day of judgment, than for you.

11:23    迦百農阿，你已經升到天上。（或作你將要升到天上嗎）將來必墜落陰間。因為在你那裡所行的異能，若行在所多瑪，他還可以存到今日。
And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted unto heaven, shalt be brought down to hell: for if the mighty works, which have been done in thee, had been done in Sodom, it would have remained until this day.

11:24    但我告訴你們，當審判的日子，所多瑪所受的，比你還容易呢。
But I say unto you, That it shall be more tolerable for the land of Sodom in the day of judgment, than for thee.

11:25    那時，耶穌說，父阿，天地的主，我感謝你，因為你將這些事，向聰明通達人，就藏起來，向嬰孩，就顯出來。
At that time Jesus answered and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, because thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes.

11:26    父阿，是的，因為你的美意本是如此。
Even so, Father: for so it seemed good in thy sight.



11:27    一切所有的，都是我父交付我的。除了父，沒有人知道子。除了子和子所願意指示的，沒有人知道父。
All things are delivered unto me of my Father: and no man knoweth the Son, but the Father; neither knoweth any man the Father, save the Son, and he to whomsoever the Son will reveal him.

11:28    凡勞苦擔重擔的人，可以到我這裡來，我就使你們得安息。
Come unto me, all ye that labour and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest.

11:29    我心裡柔和謙卑，你們當負我的軛，學我的樣式，這樣，你們心裡就必得享安息。
Take my yoke upon you, and learn of me; for I am meek and lowly in heart: and ye shall find rest unto your souls.

11:30    因為我的軛是容易的，我的擔子是輕省的。
For my yoke is easy, and my burden is light.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


12:1    那時，耶穌在安息日，從麥地經過。他的門徒餓了，就掐起麥穗來吃。
At that time Jesus went on the sabbath day through the corn; and his disciples were an hungred, and began to pluck the ears of corn, and to eat.

12:2    法利賽人看見，就對耶穌說，看哪，你的門徒作安息日不可作的事了。
But when the Pharisees saw it, they said unto him, Behold, thy disciples do that which is not lawful to do upon the sabbath day.

12:3    耶穌對他們說，經上記著大衛和跟從他的人肌餓之時所作的事，你們沒有念過嗎。
But he said unto them, Have ye not read what David did, when he was an hungred, and they that were with him;

12:4    他怎嗎進了神的殿，吃了陳設餅，這餅不是他和跟從他的人可以吃的，惟獨祭司才可以吃。
How he entered into the house of God, and did eat the shewbread, which was not lawful for him to eat, neither for them which were with him, but only for the priests?

12:5    再者，律法上所記的，當安息日，祭司在殿裡犯了安息日，還是沒有罪，你們沒有念過嗎。
Or have ye not read in the law, how that on the sabbath days the priests in the temple profane the sabbath, and are blameless?

12:6    但我告訴你們，在這裡有一人比殿更大。
But I say unto you, That in this place is one greater than the temple.

12:7    我喜愛憐恤，不喜愛祭祀。你們若明白這話的意思，就不將無罪的，當作有罪的了。
But if ye had known what this meaneth, I will have mercy, and not sacrifice, ye would not have condemned the guiltless.

12:8    因為人子是安息日的主。
For the Son of man is Lord even of the sabbath day.

12:9    耶穌離開那地方，進了一個會堂。
And when he was departed thence, he went into their synagogue:

12:10    那裡有一個人，枯乾了一隻手。有人問耶穌說，安息日治病，可以不可以。意思是要控告他。
And, behold, there was a man which had his hand withered. And they asked him, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath days? that they might accuse him.

12:11    耶穌說，你們中間誰有一隻羊，當安息日掉在坑裡，不把他抓住拉上來呢。
And he said unto them, What man shall there be among you, that shall have one sheep, and if it fall into a pit on the sabbath day, will he not lay hold on it, and lift it out?

12:12    人比羊何等貴重呢。所以在安息日作善事是可以的。
How much then is a man better than a sheep? Wherefore it is lawful to do well on the sabbath days.

12:13    於是對那人說，伸出手來。他把手一伸，手就復了原，和那隻手一樣。
Then saith he to the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it forth; and it was restored whole, like as the other.

12:14    法利賽人出去，商議怎樣可以除滅耶穌。
Then the Pharisees went out, and held a council against him, how they might destroy him.

12:15    耶穌知道了，就離開那裡，有許多人跟著他，他把其中有病的人都治好了。
But when Jesus knew it, he withdrew himself from thence: and great multitudes followed him, and he healed them all;

12:16    又囑咐他們，不要給他傳名。
And charged them that they should not make him known:

12:17    這是要應驗先知以賽亞的話，說，
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by Esaias the prophet, saying,

12:18    看哪，我的僕人，我所揀選，所親愛，心裡所喜悅的，我要將我的靈賜給他，他必將公理傳給外邦。
Behold my servant, whom I have chosen; my beloved, in whom my soul is well pleased: I will put my spirit upon him, and he shall shew judgment to the Gentiles.

12:19    他不爭競，不喧囔。街上也沒有人聽見他的聲音。
He shall not strive, nor cry; neither shall any man hear his voice in the streets.

12:20    壓傷的蘆葦，他不折斷。經殘的燈火，他不吹滅。等他施行公理，叫公理得勝。
A bruised reed shall he not break, and smoking flax shall he not quench, till he send forth judgment unto victory.

12:21    外邦人都要仰望他的名。
And in his name shall the Gentiles trust.

12:22    當下有人將一個被鬼附著，又瞎又啞的人，帶到耶穌那裡。耶穌就醫治他，甚至那啞吧又能說話，又能看見。
Then was brought unto him one possessed with a devil, blind, and dumb: and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and saw.

12:23    眾人都驚奇，說，這不是大衛的子孫嗎。
And all the people were amazed, and said, Is not this the son of David?

12:24    但法利賽人聽見，就說，這個人趕鬼，無非是靠著鬼王別西卜阿。
But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, This fellow doth not cast out devils, but by Beelzebub the prince of the devils.

12:25    耶穌知道他們的意念，就對他們說，凡一國自相分爭，就成為荒場，一城一家自相分爭，必站立不住。
And Jesus knew their thoughts, and said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and every city or house divided against itself shall not stand:

12:26    若撒但趕逐撒但，就是自相分爭，他的國怎能站得住呢。
And if Satan cast out Satan, he is divided against himself; how shall then his kingdom stand?

12:27    我若靠著別西卜趕鬼，你們的子弟趕鬼，又靠著誰呢。這樣，他們就要斷定你們的是非。
And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your children cast them out? therefore they shall be your judges.

12:28    我若靠著神的靈趕鬼，這就是神的國臨到你們了。
But if I cast out devils by the Spirit of God, then the kingdom of God is come unto you.

12:29    人怎能進壯士家裡，搶奪他的傢俱呢，除非先捆住那壯士，才可以搶奪他的家財。
Or else how can one enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he first bind the strong man? and then he will spoil his house.

12:30    不與我相合的，就是敵我的，不同我收聚的，就是分散的。
He that is not with me is against me; and he that gathereth not with me scattereth abroad.

12:31    所以我告訴你們，人一切的罪，和褻瀆的話，都可得赦免。惟獨褻瀆聖靈，總不得赦免。
Wherefore I say unto you, All manner of sin and blasphemy shall be forgiven unto men: but the blasphemy against the Holy Ghost shall not be forgiven unto men.

12:32    凡說話干犯人子的，還可得赦免。惟獨說話干犯聖靈的，今世來世總不得赦免。
And whosoever speaketh a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but whosoever speaketh against the Holy Ghost, it shall not be forgiven him, neither in this world, neither in the world to come.

12:33    你們或以為樹好，果子也好。樹壞，果子也壞。因為看果子，就可以知道樹。
Either make the tree good, and his fruit good; or else make the tree corrupt, and his fruit corrupt: for the tree is known by his fruit.

12:34    毒蛇的種類，你們既是惡人，怎能說出好話來呢。因為心裡所充滿的，口裡就說出來。
O generation of vipers, how can ye, being evil, speak good things? for out of the abundance of the heart the mouth speaketh.



12:35    善人從他心裡所存的善，就發出善來。惡人從他心裡所存的惡，就發出惡來。
A good man out of the good treasure of the heart bringeth forth good things: and an evil man out of the evil treasure bringeth forth evil things.

12:36    我又告訴你們，凡人所說的閒話，當審判的日子，必要句句供出來。
But I say unto you, That every idle word that men shall speak, they shall give account thereof in the day of judgment.

12:37    因為要憑你的話定你為義，也要憑你的話，定你有罪。
For by thy words thou shalt be justified, and by thy words thou shalt be condemned.

12:38    當時有幾個文士和法利賽人，對耶穌說，夫子，我們願意你顯個神蹟給我們看。
Then certain of the scribes and of the Pharisees answered, saying, Master, we would see a sign from thee.

12:39    耶穌回答說，一個邪惡淫亂的世代求看神蹟。除了先知約拿的神蹟以外，再沒有神蹟給他們看。
But he answered and said unto them, An evil and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given to it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas:

12:40    約拿三日三夜在大魚肚腹中，人子也要這樣三日三夜在地裡頭。
For as Jonas was three days and three nights in the whale's belly; so shall the Son of man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth.

12:41    當審判的時候，尼尼微人，要起來定這世代的罪，因為尼尼微人聽了約拿所傳的，就悔改了。看哪，在這裡有一人比約拿更大。
The men of Nineveh shall rise in judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: because they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.

12:42    當審判的時候，南方的女王，要起來定這世代的罪，因為他從地極而來，要聽所羅門的智慧話。看哪，在這裡有一人比所羅門更大。
The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for she came from the uttermost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.

12:43    汙鬼離了人身，就在無水之地，過來過去，尋求安歇之處，卻尋不著。
When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest, and findeth none.

12:44    於是說，我要回到我所出來的屋裡去。到了，就看見裡面空閒，打掃乾淨，修飾好了。
Then he saith, I will return into my house from whence I came out; and when he is come, he findeth it empty, swept, and garnished.

12:45    便去另帶了七個比自己更惡的鬼來，都進去住在那裡。那人末後的景況，比先前更不好了。這邪惡的世代，也要如此。
Then goeth he, and taketh with himself seven other spirits more wicked than himself, and they enter in and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first. Even so shall it be also unto this wicked generation.

12:46    耶穌還對眾人說話的時候，不料，他母親和他弟兄站在外邊，要與他說話。
While he yet talked to the people, behold, his mother and his brethren stood without, desiring to speak with him.

12:47    有人告訴他說，看哪，你母親和你弟兄站在外邊，要與你說話。
Then one said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to speak with thee.

12:48    他卻回答那人說，誰是我的母親。誰是我的弟兄。
But he answered and said unto him that told him, Who is my mother? and who are my brethren?

12:49    就伸手指著門徒說，看哪，我的母親，我的弟兄。
And he stretched forth his hand toward his disciples, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren!

12:50    凡遵行我天父旨意的人，就是我的弟兄姐妹和母親了。
For whosoever shall do the will of my Father which is in heaven, the same is my brother, and sister, and mother.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


13:1    當那一天，耶穌從房子裡出來，坐在海邊。
The same day went Jesus out of the house, and sat by the sea side.

13:2    有許多人到他那裡聚集，他只得上船坐下。眾人都站在岸上。
And great multitudes were gathered together unto him, so that he went into a ship, and sat; and the whole multitude stood on the shore.

13:3    他用比喻對他們講許多道里，說，有一個撒種的出去撒種。
And he spake many things unto them in parables, saying, Behold, a sower went forth to sow;

13:4    撒種的時候，有落在路旁的，飛鳥來吃盡了。
And when he sowed, some seeds fell by the way side, and the fowls came and devoured them up:

13:5    有落在土淺石頭地上的。土既不深，發苗最快。
Some fell upon stony places, where they had not much earth: and forthwith they sprung up, because they had no deepness of earth:

13:6    日頭出來一晒，因為沒有根，就枯乾了。
And when the sun was up, they were scorched; and because they had no root, they withered away.

13:7    有落在荊棘裡的。荊棘長起來，把他濟住了。
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprung up, and choked them:

13:8    又有落在好土裡的，就結實，有一百倍的，有六十倍的，有三十倍的。
But other fell into good ground, and brought forth fruit, some an hundredfold, some sixtyfold, some thirtyfold.

13:9    有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.

13:10    門徒進前來，問耶穌說，對眾人講話，為什麼用比喻呢。
And the disciples came, and said unto him, Why speakest thou unto them in parables?

13:11    耶穌回答說，因為天國的奧祕，只叫你們知道，不叫他們知道。
He answered and said unto them, Because it is given unto you to know the mysteries of the kingdom of heaven, but to them it is not given.

13:12    凡有的，還要加給他，叫他有餘。凡沒有的，連他所有的，也要奪去。
For whosoever hath, to him shall be given, and he shall have more abundance: but whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken away even that he hath.

13:13    所以我用比喻對他們講，是因他們看也看不見，聽也聽不見，也不明白。
Therefore speak I to them in parables: because they seeing see not; and hearing they hear not, neither do they understand.

13:14    在他們身上，正應了以賽亞的預言說，你們聽是要聽見，卻不明白。看是要看見，卻不曉得。
And in them is fulfilled the prophecy of Esaias, which saith, By hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and shall not perceive:

13:15    因為這百姓油蒙了心，耳朵發沉，眼睛閉著。恐怕眼睛看見，耳朵聽見，心裡明白，迴轉過來，我就醫治他們。
For this people's heart is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes they have closed; lest at any time they should see with their eyes and hear with their ears, and should understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.

13:16    但你們的眼睛是有福的，因為看見了。你們的耳朵也是有福的，因為聽見了。
But blessed are your eyes, for they see: and your ears, for they hear.

13:17    我實在告訴你們，從前有許多先知和義人，要看你們所看的，卻沒有看見。要聽你們所聽見的，卻沒有聽見。
For verily I say unto you, That many prophets and righteous men have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.

13:18    所以你們當聽這撒種的比喻。
Hear ye therefore the parable of the sower.

13:19    凡聽見天國道里不明白的，那惡者就來，把所撒在他心裡的奪去了。這就是撒在路旁的了。
When any one heareth the word of the kingdom, and understandeth it not, then cometh the wicked one, and catcheth away that which was sown in his heart. This is he which received seed by the way side.

13:20    撒在石頭地上的，就是人聽了道，當下歡喜領受。
But he that received the seed into stony places, the same is he that heareth the word, and anon with joy receiveth it;

13:21    只因心裡沒有根，不過是暫時的。及至為道遭了患難，或是受了逼迫，立刻就倒了。
Yet hath he not root in himself, but dureth for a while: for when tribulation or persecution ariseth because of the word, by and by he is offended.

13:22    撒在荊棘裡的，就是人聽了道，後來有世上的思慮，錢財的迷惑，把道擠住了，不能結實。
He also that received seed among the thorns is he that heareth the word; and the care of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, choke the word, and he becometh unfruitful.

13:23    撒在好土地上的，就是人聽了道明白了，後來結實，有一百倍的，有六十倍的，有三十倍的。
But he that received seed into the good ground is he that heareth the word, and understandeth it; which also beareth fruit, and bringeth forth, some an hundredfold, some sixty, some thirty.

13:24    耶穌又設個比喻對他們說，天國好像人撒好種在田裡。
Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is likened unto a man which sowed good seed in his field:

13:25    及至人睡覺的時候，有仇敵來，將稗子撒在麥子裡，就走了。
But while men slept, his enemy came and sowed tares among the wheat, and went his way.

13:26    到長苗吐穗的時候，稗子也顯出來。
But when the blade was sprung up, and brought forth fruit, then appeared the tares also.

13:27    田主的僕人來告訴他說，主阿，你不是撒好種在田裡嗎。從那裡來的稗子呢。
So the servants of the householder came and said unto him, Sir, didst not thou sow good seed in thy field? from whence then hath it tares?

13:28    主人說，這是仇敵作的。僕人說，你要我們去薅出來嗎。
He said unto them, An enemy hath done this. The servants said unto him, Wilt thou then that we go and gather them up?

13:29    主人說，不必，恐怕薅稗子，連麥子也拔出來。
But he said, Nay; lest while ye gather up the tares, ye root up also the wheat with them.

13:30    這兩樣一齊長，等著收割。當收割的時候，我要對收割的人說，先將稗子薅出來，捆成捆，留著燒。惟有麥子，要收在倉裡。
Let both grow together until the harvest: and in the time of harvest I will say to the reapers, Gather ye together first the tares, and bind them in bundles to burn them: but gather the wheat into my barn.

13:31    他又設個比喻對他們說，天國好像一粒芥菜種，有人拿去種在田裡。
Another parable put he forth unto them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like to a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and sowed in his field:

13:32    這原是百種裡最小的。等到長起來，卻比各樣的菜都大，且成了樹。天上的飛鳥來宿在他的枝上。
Which indeed is the least of all seeds: but when it is grown, it is the greatest among herbs, and becometh a tree, so that the birds of the air come and lodge in the branches thereof.

13:33    他又對他們講個比喻說，天國好像面酵，有婦人拿來，藏在三鬥面裡，直等全團都發起來。
Another parable spake he unto them; The kingdom of heaven is like unto leaven, which a woman took, and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.

13:34    這都是耶穌用比喻對眾人說的話。若不用比喻，就不對他們說什麼。
All these things spake Jesus unto the multitude in parables; and without a parable spake he not unto them:

13:35    這是要應驗先知的話說，我要開口用比喻，把創世以來所隱藏的事發明出來。
That it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying, I will open my mouth in parables; I will utter things which have been kept secret from the foundation of the world.

13:36    當下耶穌離開眾人，進了房子。他的門徒進前來說，請把田間稗子的比喻，講給我們聽。
Then Jesus sent the multitude away, and went into the house: and his disciples came unto him, saying, Declare unto us the parable of the tares of the field.

13:37    他回答說，那撒好種的，就是人子。
He answered and said unto them, He that soweth the good seed is the Son of man;

13:38    田地，就是世界。好種，就是天國之子。稗子，就是那惡者之子。
The field is the world; the good seed are the children of the kingdom; but the tares are the children of the wicked one;

13:39    撒稗子的仇敵，就是魔鬼。收割的時候，就是世界的末了。收割的人，就是天使。
The enemy that sowed them is the devil; the harvest is the end of the world; and the reapers are the angels.

13:40    將稗子薅出來，用火焚燒。世界的末了，也要如此。
As therefore the tares are gathered and burned in the fire; so shall it be in the end of this world.

13:41    人子要差遣使者，把一切叫人跌倒的，和作惡的，從他國裡挑出來，
The Son of man shall send forth his angels, and they shall gather out of his kingdom all things that offend, and them which do iniquity;

13:42    丟在火爐裡。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
And shall cast them into a furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.

13:43    那時義人在他們父的國裡，要發出光來，像太陽一樣。有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
Then shall the righteous shine forth as the sun in the kingdom of their Father. Who hath ears to hear, let him hear.

13:44    天國好像寶貝藏在地裡。人遇見了，就把他藏起來。歡歡喜喜的去變賣一切所有的買這塊地。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto treasure hid in a field; the which when a man hath found, he hideth, and for joy thereof goeth and selleth all that he hath, and buyeth that field.

13:45    天國又好像買賣人，尋梢好珠子。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a merchant man, seeking goodly pearls:

13:46    遇見一顆重價的珠子，就去變賣他一切所有的，買了這顆珠子。
Who, when he had found one pearl of great price, went and sold all that he had, and bought it.

13:47    天國又好像網撒在海里，聚攏各樣水族。
Again, the kingdom of heaven is like unto a net, that was cast into the sea, and gathered of every kind:

13:48    網既滿了，人就拉上岸來。坐下，揀好的收在器具裡，將不好的丟棄了。
Which, when it was full, they drew to shore, and sat down, and gathered the good into vessels, but cast the bad away.

13:49    世界的末了，也要這樣。天使要出來，從義人中，把惡人分別出來，
So shall it be at the end of the world: the angels shall come forth, and sever the wicked from among the just,

13:50    丟在火爐裡。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
And shall cast them into the furnace of fire: there shall be wailing and gnashing of teeth.

13:51    耶穌說，這一切的話，你們都明白了嗎。他們說，我們明白了，
Jesus saith unto them, Have ye understood all these things? They say unto him, Yea, Lord.

13:52    他說，凡文士受教作天國的門徒，就像一個家主，從他庫裡拿出新舊的東西來。
Then said he unto them, Therefore every scribe which is instructed unto the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which bringeth forth out of his treasure things new and old.

13:53    耶穌說完了這些比喻，就離開那裡，
And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these parables, he departed thence.

13:54    來到自己的家鄉，在會堂裡教訓人，甚至他們都希奇說，這人從那裡有這等智慧，和異能呢。
And when he was come into his own country, he taught them in their synagogue, insomuch that they were astonished, and said, Whence hath this man this wisdom, and these mighty works?

13:55    這不是木匠的兒子嗎。他母親不是叫馬利亞嗎。他弟兄們不是叫雅各，約西，（有古卷作約瑟），西門，猶大嗎。
Is not this the carpenter's son? is not his mother called Mary? and his brethren, James, and Joses, and Simon, and Judas?

13:56    他妹妹們不是都在我們這裡嗎。這人從那裡有這一切的事呢。
And his sisters, are they not all with us? Whence then hath this man all these things?

13:57    他們就厭棄他。（厭棄他原文作因他跌倒）耶穌對他們說，大凡先知，除了本地本家之外，沒有不被人尊敬的。
And they were offended in him. But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, save in his own country, and in his own house.

13:58    耶穌因為他們不信，就在那裡不多行異能了。
And he did not many mighty works there because of their unbelief.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


14:1    那時分封的王希律，聽見耶穌的名聲，
At that time Herod the tetrarch heard of the fame of Jesus,

14:2    就對臣僕說，這是施洗約翰從死裡復活，所以這些異能從他裡面發出來。
And said unto his servants, This is John the Baptist; he is risen from the dead; and therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.

14:3    起先希律為他兄弟腓力的妻子希羅底的緣故，把約翰拿住鎖在監裡。
For Herod had laid hold on John, and bound him, and put him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife.

14:4    因為約翰曾對他說，你娶這婦人是不合理的。
For John said unto him, It is not lawful for thee to have her.

14:5    希律就想要殺他，只是怕百姓。因為他們以約翰為先知。
And when he would have put him to death, he feared the multitude, because they counted him as a prophet.

14:6    到了希律的生日，希羅底的女兒，在眾人面前跳舞，使希律歡喜。
But when Herod's birthday was kept, the daughter of Herodias danced before them, and pleased Herod.

14:7    希律就起誓，應許隨他所求的給他。
Whereupon he promised with an oath to give her whatsoever she would ask.

14:8    女兒被母親所使，就說，請把施洗約翰的頭，放在盤子裡拿來給我。
And she, being before instructed of her mother, said, Give me here John Baptist's head in a charger.

14:9    王便憂愁，但因他所起的誓，又因同席的人，就吩咐給他。
And the king was sorry: nevertheless for the oath's sake, and them which sat with him at meat, he commanded it to be given her.

14:10    於是打發人去，在監裡斬了約翰。
And he sent, and beheaded John in the prison.

14:11    把頭放在盤子裡，拿來給了女子。女子拿去給他母親。
And his head was brought in a charger, and given to the damsel: and she brought it to her mother.

14:12    約翰的門徒來，把屍首領去，埋葬了。就去告訴耶穌。
And his disciples came, and took up the body, and buried it, and went and told Jesus.

14:13    耶穌聽見了，就上船從那裡獨自退到野地裡去。眾人聽見，就從各城裡步行跟隨他。
When Jesus heard of it, he departed thence by ship into a desert place apart: and when the people had heard thereof, they followed him on foot out of the cities.

14:14    耶穌出來，見有許多的人，就憐憫他們，治好了他們的病人。
And Jesus went forth, and saw a great multitude, and was moved with compassion toward them, and he healed their sick.



14:15    天將晚的時候，門徒進前來說，這是野地，時候已經過了。請叫眾人散開，他們好往村子裡去，自己買吃的。
And when it was evening, his disciples came to him, saying, This is a desert place, and the time is now past; send the multitude away, that they may go into the villages, and buy themselves victuals.

14:16    耶穌說，不用他們去，你們給他們吃吧。
But Jesus said unto them, They need not depart; give ye them to eat.

14:17    門徒說，我們這裡只有五個餅，兩條魚。
And they say unto him, We have here but five loaves, and two fishes.

14:18    耶穌說，拿過來給我。
He said, Bring them hither to me.

14:19    於是吩咐眾人坐在草地上。就拿著這五個餅，兩條魚，望著天，祝福，擘開餅，遞給門徒。門徒又遞給眾人。
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the grass, and took the five loaves, and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed, and brake, and gave the loaves to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.

14:20    他們都吃，並且吃飽了。把剩下的零碎收拾起來，裝滿了十二個籃子。
And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the fragments that remained twelve baskets full.

14:21    吃的人，除了婦女孩子，約有五千。
And they that had eaten were about five thousand men, beside women and children.

14:22    耶穌隨既催門徒上船，先渡到那邊去，等他叫眾人散開。
And straightway Jesus constrained his disciples to get into a ship, and to go before him unto the other side, while he sent the multitudes away.

14:23    散了眾人以後，他就獨自上山禱告。到了晚上，只有他一人在那裡。
And when he had sent the multitudes away, he went up into a mountain apart to pray: and when the evening was come, he was there alone.

14:24    那時船在海中，因風不順，被浪搖撼。
But the ship was now in the midst of the sea, tossed with waves: for the wind was contrary.

14:25    夜裡四更天，耶穌在海面上走，往門徒那裡去。
And in the fourth watch of the night Jesus went unto them, walking on the sea.

14:26    門徒看見他在海面上走，就驚慌了，說，是個鬼怪。便害怕，喊叫起來。
And when the disciples saw him walking on the sea, they were troubled, saying, It is a spirit; and they cried out for fear.

14:27    耶穌連忙對他們說，你們放心。是我，不要怕。
But straightway Jesus spake unto them, saying, Be of good cheer; it is I; be not afraid.

14:28    彼得說，主，如果是你，請叫我從水面上走到你那裡去。
And Peter answered him and said, Lord, if it be thou, bid me come unto thee on the water.

14:29    耶穌說，你來吧。彼得就從船上下去，在水面上走，要到耶穌那裡去。
And he said, Come. And when Peter was come down out of the ship, he walked on the water, to go to Jesus.

14:30    只因見風甚大，就害怕。將要沉下去，便喊著說，主阿，救我。
But when he saw the wind boisterous, he was afraid; and beginning to sink, he cried, saying, Lord, save me.

14:31    耶穌趕緊伸手拉住他，說，你這小信的人哪，為什麼疑惑呢。
And immediately Jesus stretched forth his hand, and caught him, and said unto him, O thou of little faith, wherefore didst thou doubt?

14:32    他們上了船，風就住了。
And when they were come into the ship, the wind ceased.

14:33    在船上的人都拜他說，你真是神的兒子了。
Then they that were in the ship came and worshipped him, saying, Of a truth thou art the Son of God.

14:34    他們過了海，來到革尼撒勒地方。
And when they were gone over, they came into the land of Gennesaret.

14:35    那裡的人，一認出是耶穌，就打發人到周圍地方去，把所有的病人，帶到他那裡。
And when the men of that place had knowledge of him, they sent out into all that country round about, and brought unto him all that were diseased;

14:36    只求耶穌準他們摸他的衣裳？？子，摸著的人，就都好了。
And besought him that they might only touch the hem of his garment: and as many as touched were made perfectly whole.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


15:1    那時有法利賽人和文士，從耶路撒冷來見耶穌說，
Then came to Jesus scribes and Pharisees, which were of Jerusalem, saying,

15:2    你的門徒為什麼犯古人的遺傳呢。因為吃飯的時候，他們不洗手。
Why do thy disciples transgress the tradition of the elders? for they wash not their hands when they eat bread.

15:3    耶穌回答說，你們為什麼因著你們的遺傳，犯神的誡命呢。
But he answered and said unto them, Why do ye also transgress the commandment of God by your tradition?

15:4    神說，當孝敬父母。又說，咒罵父母的，必治死他。
For God commanded, saying, Honour thy father and mother: and, He that curseth father or mother, let him die the death.

15:5    你們倒說，無論何人對父母說，我所當奉給你的，已經作了供獻。
But ye say, Whosoever shall say to his father or his mother, It is a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me;

15:6    他就可以不孝敬父母。這就是你們藉著遺傳，廢了神的誡命。
And honour not his father or his mother, he shall be free. Thus have ye made the commandment of God of none effect by your tradition.

15:7    假冒為善的人哪，以賽亞指著你們說的預言，是不錯的。他說，
Ye hypocrites, well did Esaias prophesy of you, saying,

15:8    這百姓用嘴脣尊敬我，心卻遠離我。
This people draweth nigh unto me with their mouth, and honoureth me with their lips; but their heart is far from me.

15:9    他們將人的吩咐，當作道理教導人，所以拜我也是枉然。
But in vain they do worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.

15:10    耶穌就叫了眾人來，對他們說，你們要聽，也要明白。
And he called the multitude, and said unto them, Hear, and understand:

15:11    入口的不能汙穢人，出口的乃能汙穢人。
Not that which goeth into the mouth defileth a man; but that which cometh out of the mouth, this defileth a man.

15:12    當時，門徒進前來對他說，法利賽人聽見這話，不服，你知道嗎。（不服原文作跌倒）
Then came his disciples, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the Pharisees were offended, after they heard this saying?

15:13    耶穌回答說，凡栽種的物，若不是我父栽種的，必要拔出來。
But he answered and said, Every plant, which my heavenly Father hath not planted, shall be rooted up.

15:14    任憑他們吧。他們是瞎眼領路的。若是瞎子領瞎子，兩個人都要掉在坑裡。
Let them alone: they be blind leaders of the blind. And if the blind lead the blind, both shall fall into the ditch.

15:15    彼得對耶穌說，請將這比喻講給我們聽。
Then answered Peter and said unto him, Declare unto us this parable.

15:16    耶穌說，你們到如今還不明白嗎。
And Jesus said, Are ye also yet without understanding?

15:17    豈不知凡入口的，是運到肚子裡，又落在茅廁裡嗎。
Do not ye yet understand, that whatsoever entereth in at the mouth goeth into the belly, and is cast out into the draught?

15:18    惟獨出口的，是從心裡發出來的，這才汙穢人。
But those things which proceed out of the mouth come forth from the heart; and they defile the man.

15:19    因為從心裡發出來的，有惡念，凶殺，姦淫，苟合，偷盜，妄證，謗？？。
For out of the heart proceed evil thoughts, murders, adulteries, fornications, thefts, false witness, blasphemies:

15:20    這都是汙穢人的。至於不洗手吃飯，那卻不汙穢人。
These are the things which defile a man: but to eat with unwashen hands defileth not a man.

15:21    耶穌離開那裡，退到推羅西頓的境內去。
Then Jesus went thence, and departed into the coasts of Tyre and Sidon.

15:22    有一個迦南婦人，從那地方出來，喊著說，主啊，大衛的子孫，可憐我。我女兒被鬼附得甚苦。
And, behold, a woman of Canaan came out of the same coasts, and cried unto him, saying, Have mercy on me, O Lord, thou son of David; my daughter is grievously vexed with a devil.

15:23    耶穌一言不答。門徒進前來，求他說，這婦人在我們後頭喊叫。請打發他走吧。
But he answered her not a word. And his disciples came and besought him, saying, Send her away; for she crieth after us.

15:24    耶穌說，我奉差遣，不過是到以色列家迷失的羊那裡去。
But he answered and said, I am not sent but unto the lost sheep of the house of Israel.

15:25    那婦人來拜他，說，主啊，幫助我。
Then came she and worshipped him, saying, Lord, help me.

15:26    他回答說，不好拿兒女的餅，丟給狗吃。
But he answered and said, It is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it to dogs.

15:27    婦人說，主啊，不錯。但是狗也吃它主人桌子上掉下來的啐渣兒。
And she said, Truth, Lord: yet the dogs eat of the crumbs which fall from their masters' table.

15:28    耶穌說，婦人，你的信心是大的。照你所要的，給你成全了吧。從那時候，他女兒就好了。
Then Jesus answered and said unto her, O woman, great is thy faith: be it unto thee even as thou wilt. And her daughter was made whole from that very hour.

15:29    耶穌離開那地方，來到靠近加利利的海邊，就上山坐下。
And Jesus departed from thence, and came nigh unto the sea of Galilee; and went up into a mountain, and sat down there.

15:30    有許多人到他那裡，帶著瘸子，瞎子，啞吧，有殘疾的，和好些別的病人，都放在他腳前。他就治好了他們。
And great multitudes came unto him, having with them those that were lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus' feet; and he healed them:

15:31    甚至眾人都希奇。因為看見啞吧說話，殘疾的痊癒，瘸子行走，瞎子看見，他們就歸榮耀給以色列的神。
Insomuch that the multitude wondered, when they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk, and the blind to see: and they glorified the God of Israel.

15:32    耶穌叫門徒來說，我憐憫這眾人，因為他們同我在這裡已經三天，也沒有吃的了。我不願意叫他們餓著回去，恐怕在路上睏乏。
Then Jesus called his disciples unto him, and said, I have compassion on the multitude, because they continue with me now three days, and have nothing to eat: and I will not send them away fasting, lest they faint in the way.

15:33    門徒說，我們在野地，那裡有這嗎多的餅，叫這許多人吃飽呢。
And his disciples say unto him, Whence should we have so much bread in the wilderness, as to fill so great a multitude?

15:34    耶穌說，你們有多少餅。他們說，有七個，還有幾條小魚。
And Jesus saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven, and a few little fishes.

15:35    他就吩咐眾人坐在地上。
And he commanded the multitude to sit down on the ground.

15:36    拿著這七個餅和幾條魚，祝謝了，擘開，遞給門徒。門徒又遞給眾人。
And he took the seven loaves and the fishes, and gave thanks, and brake them, and gave to his disciples, and the disciples to the multitude.

15:37    眾人都吃並且吃飽了。收拾剩下的零碎，裝滿了七個筐子。
And they did all eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets full.



15:38    吃的人，除了婦女孩子，共有四千。
And they that did eat were four thousand men, beside women and children.

15:39    耶穌叫眾人散去，就上船，來到馬加丹的境界。
And he sent away the multitude, and took ship, and came into the coasts of Magdala.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


16:1    法利賽人和撒都該人，來試探耶穌，請他從天上顯個神蹟給他們看。
The Pharisees also with the Sadducees came, and tempting desired him that he would shew them a sign from heaven.

16:2    耶穌回答說，晚上天發紅，你們就說，天必要晴。
He answered and said unto them, When it is evening, ye say, It will be fair weather: for the sky is red.

16:3    早晨天發紅，又發黑，你們就說，今日必有風雨。你們知道分辨天上的氣色，倒不能分辨這時候的神蹟。
And in the morning, It will be foul weather to day: for the sky is red and lowring. O ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky; but can ye not discern the signs of the times?

16:4    一個邪惡淫亂的世代求神蹟，除了約拿的神蹟以外，再沒有神蹟給他看。耶穌就離開他們去。
A wicked and adulterous generation seeketh after a sign; and there shall no sign be given unto it, but the sign of the prophet Jonas. And he left them, and departed.

16:5    門徒渡到那邊去，忘了帶餅。
And when his disciples were come to the other side, they had forgotten to take bread.

16:6    耶穌對他們說，你們要謹慎，防備法利賽人和撒都該人的酵。
Then Jesus said unto them, Take heed and beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.

16:7    門徒彼此議論說，這是因我們沒有帶餅吧。
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have taken no bread.

16:8    耶穌看出來，就說，你們這小信的人，為什麼因為沒有餅彼此議論呢。
Which when Jesus perceived, he said unto them, O ye of little faith, why reason ye among yourselves, because ye have brought no bread?

16:9    你們還不明白嗎，不記得那五個餅，分給五千人，又收拾了多少籃子的零碎嗎。
Do ye not yet understand, neither remember the five loaves of the five thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?

16:10    也不記得那七個餅，分給四千人，又收拾了多少筐子的零碎嗎。
Neither the seven loaves of the four thousand, and how many baskets ye took up?

16:11    我對你們說，要防備法利賽人和撒都該人的酵，這話不是指著餅說的。你們怎嗎不明白呢。
How is it that ye do not understand that I spake it not to you concerning bread, that ye should beware of the leaven of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees?

16:12    門徒這才曉得他說的，不是叫他們防備餅的酵，乃是防備法利賽人和撒都該人的教訓。
Then understood they how that he bade them not beware of the leaven of bread, but of the doctrine of the Pharisees and of the Sadducees.

16:13    耶穌到了凱撒利亞腓力比的境內，就問門徒說，人說我人子是誰。（有古卷無我字）
When Jesus came into the coasts of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, saying, Whom do men say that I the Son of man am?

16:14    他們說，有人說是施洗的約翰。有人說是以利亞。又有人說是耶利米，或是先知裡的一位。
And they said, Some say that thou art John the Baptist: some, Elias; and others, Jeremias, or one of the prophets.

16:15    耶穌說，你們說我是誰。
He saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am?

16:16    西門彼得回答說，你是基督，是永生神的兒子。
And Simon Peter answered and said, Thou art the Christ, the Son of the living God.

16:17    耶穌對他說，西門巴約拿，你是有福的。因為這不是屬血肉的指示你的，乃是我在天上的父指示的。
And Jesus answered and said unto him, Blessed art thou, Simon Barjona: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father which is in heaven.

16:18    我還告訴你，你是彼得，我要把我的教會建造在這磐石上，陰間的權柄，不能勝過他。（權柄原文作門）
And I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.

16:19    我要把天國的鑰匙給你。凡你在地上所捆綁的，在天上也要捆綁。凡你在地上所釋放的，在天上也要釋放。
And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

16:20    當下，耶穌囑咐門徒，不可對人說他是基督。
Then charged he his disciples that they should tell no man that he was Jesus the Christ.

16:21    從此耶穌才指示門徒，他必須上耶路撒冷去，受長老祭司長文士許多的苦，並且被殺，第三日復活。
From that time forth began Jesus to shew unto his disciples, how that he must go unto Jerusalem, and suffer many things of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be killed, and be raised again the third day.

16:22    彼得就拉著他說，主阿，萬不可如此，這事必不臨到你身上。
Then Peter took him, and began to rebuke him, saying, Be it far from thee, Lord: this shall not be unto thee.

16:23    耶穌轉過來，對彼得說，撒但退我後邊去吧。你是絆我腳的。因為你不體貼神的意思，只體貼人的意思。
But he turned, and said unto Peter, Get thee behind me, Satan: thou art an offence unto me: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but those that be of men.

16:24    於是耶穌對門徒說，若有人要跟從我，就當捨己，背起他的十字架，來跟從我。
Then said Jesus unto his disciples, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

16:25    因為凡要救自己生命的，（生命或作靈魂下同）必喪掉生命。凡為我喪掉生命的，必得著生命。
For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: and whosoever will lose his life for my sake shall find it.

16:26    人若賺得全世界，賠上自己的生命，有什麼益處呢。人還能拿什麼換生命呢。
For what is a man profited, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul? or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?

16:27    人子要在他父的榮耀裡，同著眾使者降臨。那時候，他要照各人的行為報應各人。
For the Son of man shall come in the glory of his Father with his angels; and then he shall reward every man according to his works.

16:28    我實在告訴你們，站在這裡的人，有人在沒嘗死味以前，必看見人子降臨在他的國裡。
Verily I say unto you, There be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the Son of man coming in his kingdom.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


17:1    過了六天，耶穌帶著彼得，雅各，和雅各的兄弟約翰，暗暗的上了高山。
And after six days Jesus taketh Peter, James, and John his brother, and bringeth them up into an high mountain apart,

17:2    就在他們面前變了形像。臉面明亮如日頭，衣裳潔白如光。
And was transfigured before them: and his face did shine as the sun, and his raiment was white as the light.

17:3    忽然有摩西，以利亞，向他們顯現，同耶穌說話。
And, behold, there appeared unto them Moses and Elias talking with him.

17:4    彼得對耶穌說，主阿，我們在這裡真好。你若願意，我就在這裡搭三座棚，一座為你，一座為摩西，一座為以利亞。
Then answered Peter, and said unto Jesus, Lord, it is good for us to be here: if thou wilt, let us make here three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.

17:5    說話之間，忽然有一朵光明的雲彩遮蓋他們。且有聲音從雲彩裡出來說，這是我的愛子，我所喜悅的。你們要聽他。
While he yet spake, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them: and behold a voice out of the cloud, which said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased; hear ye him.

17:6    門徒聽見，就俯伏在地，極其害怕。
And when the disciples heard it, they fell on their face, and were sore afraid.

17:7    耶穌進前來，摸他們說，起來，不要害怕。
And Jesus came and touched them, and said, Arise, and be not afraid.

17:8    他們舉目不見一人，只見耶穌在那裡。
And when they had lifted up their eyes, they saw no man, save Jesus only.

17:9    下山的時候，耶穌吩咐他們說，人子還沒有從死裡復活，你們不要將所看見的告訴人。
And as they came down from the mountain, Jesus charged them, saying, Tell the vision to no man, until the Son of man be risen again from the dead.

17:10    門徒問耶穌說，文士為什麼說，以利亞必須先來。
And his disciples asked him, saying, Why then say the scribes that Elias must first come?

17:11    耶穌回答說，以利亞固然先來，並要復興萬事。
And Jesus answered and said unto them, Elias truly shall first come, and restore all things.

17:12    只是我告訴你們，以利亞已經來了，人卻不認識他，竟任意待他。人子也將要這樣受他們的害。
But I say unto you, That Elias is come already, and they knew him not, but have done unto him whatsoever they listed. Likewise shall also the Son of man suffer of them.

17:13    門徒這才明白耶穌所說的，是指著施洗的約翰。
Then the disciples understood that he spake unto them of John the Baptist.

17:14    耶穌和門徒到了眾人那裡，有一個人來見耶穌，跪下，說，
And when they were come to the multitude, there came to him a certain man, kneeling down to him, and saying,

17:15    主阿，憐憫我的兒子。他害癲癇的病很苦，屢次跌在火裡，屢次跌在水裡。
Lord, have mercy on my son: for he is lunatick, and sore vexed: for ofttimes he falleth into the fire, and oft into the water.

17:16    我帶他到你門徒那裡，他們卻不能醫治他。
And I brought him to thy disciples, and they could not cure him.

17:17    耶穌說，噯，這又不信又悖謬的世代阿，我在你們這裡要到幾時呢。我忍耐你們要到幾時呢。把他帶到我這裡來吧。
Then Jesus answered and said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him hither to me.

17:18    耶穌斥責那鬼，鬼就出來。從此孩子就痊癒了。
And Jesus rebuked the devil; and he departed out of him: and the child was cured from that very hour.

17:19    門徒暗暗的到耶穌跟前說，我們為什麼不能趕出那鬼呢。
Then came the disciples to Jesus apart, and said, Why could not we cast him out?

17:20    耶穌說，是因你們的信心小。我實在告訴你們，你們若有信心像一粒芥菜種，就是對這座山說，你從這邊挪到那邊，他也必挪去。並且你們沒有一件不能作的事了。
And Jesus said unto them, Because of your unbelief: for verily I say unto you, If ye have faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye shall say unto this mountain, Remove hence to yonder place; and it shall remove; and nothing shall be impossible unto you.

17:21    至於這一類的鬼，若不禱告禁食，他就不出來。（或作不能趕他出來）
Howbeit this kind goeth not out but by prayer and fasting.

17:22    他們還住在加利利的時候，耶穌對門徒說，人子將要被交在人手裡。
And while they abode in Galilee, Jesus said unto them, The Son of man shall be betrayed into the hands of men:

17:23    他們要殺害他，第三日他要復活。門徒就大大的憂愁。
And they shall kill him, and the third day he shall be raised again. And they were exceeding sorry.

17:24    到了迦百農，有收丁稅的人來見彼得說，你們的先生不納丁稅嗎。（丁稅約有半塊錢）
And when they were come to Capernaum, they that received tribute money came to Peter, and said, Doth not your master pay tribute?

17:25    彼得說，納。他進了屋子，耶穌先向他說，西門，你的意思如何。世上的君王，向誰徵收關稅丁稅。是向自己的兒子呢，是向外人呢。
He saith, Yes. And when he was come into the house, Jesus prevented him, saying, What thinkest thou, Simon? of whom do the kings of the earth take custom or tribute? of their own children, or of strangers?

17:26    彼得說，是向外人。耶穌說，既然如此，兒子就可以免稅了。
Peter saith unto him, Of strangers. Jesus saith unto him, Then are the children free.

17:27    但恐怕觸犯他們，（觸犯原文作絆倒）你且往海邊去釣魚，把先釣上來的魚拿起來，開了他的口，必得一塊錢，可以拿去給他們，作你我的稅銀。
Notwithstanding, lest we should offend them, go thou to the sea, and cast an hook, and take up the fish that first cometh up; and when thou hast opened his mouth, thou shalt find a piece of money: that take, and give unto them for me and thee.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


18:1    當時門徒進前來，問耶穌說，天國裡誰是最大的。
At the same time came the disciples unto Jesus, saying, Who is the greatest in the kingdom of heaven?

18:2    耶穌便叫一個小孩子來，使他站在他們當中，
And Jesus called a little child unto him, and set him in the midst of them,

18:3    說，我實在告訴你們，你們若不迴轉，變成小孩子的樣式，斷不得進天國。
And said, Verily I say unto you, Except ye be converted, and become as little children, ye shall not enter into the kingdom of heaven.

18:4    所以凡自己謙卑像這小孩子的，他在天國裡就是最大的。
Whosoever therefore shall humble himself as this little child, the same is greatest in the kingdom of heaven.

18:5    凡為我的名，接待一個像這小孩子的，就是接待我。
And whoso shall receive one such little child in my name receiveth me.

18:6    凡使這信我的一個小子跌倒的，倒不如把大磨石拴在這人的頸項上，沉在深海里。
But whoso shall offend one of these little ones which believe in me, it were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and that he were drowned in the depth of the sea.

18:7    這世界有禍了，因為將人絆倒。絆倒人的事是免不了的，但那絆倒人的有禍了。
Woe unto the world because of offences! for it must needs be that offences come; but woe to that man by whom the offence cometh!

18:8    倘若你一隻手，或是一隻腳，叫你跌倒，就砍下來丟掉。你缺一隻手，或是一隻腳，進入永生，強如有兩手兩腳，被丟在永火裡。
Wherefore if thy hand or thy foot offend thee, cut them off, and cast them from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life halt or maimed, rather than having two hands or two feet to be cast into everlasting fire.

18:9    倘若你一隻眼叫你跌倒，就把他挖出來丟掉。你只有一隻眼進入永生，強如有兩隻眼被丟在地獄的火裡。
And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out, and cast it from thee: it is better for thee to enter into life with one eye, rather than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire.

18:10    你們要小心，不可輕看這小子裡的一個。我告訴你們，他們的使者在天上，常見我天父的面。（有古卷在此有
Take heed that ye despise not one of these little ones; for I say unto you, That in heaven their angels do always behold the face of my Father which is in heaven.

18:11    人子來為要拯救失喪的人）
For the Son of man is come to save that which was lost.

18:12    一個人若有一百隻羊，一隻走迷了路，你們的意思如何。他豈不撇下這九十九隻，往山裡去找那隻迷路的羊嗎。
How think ye? if a man have an hundred sheep, and one of them be gone astray, doth he not leave the ninety and nine, and goeth into the mountains, and seeketh that which is gone astray?

18:13    若是找著了，我實在告訴你們，他為這一隻羊歡喜，比為那沒有迷路的九十九隻歡喜還大呢。
And if so be that he find it, verily I say unto you, he rejoiceth more of that sheep, than of the ninety and nine which went not astray.

18:14    你們在天上的父，也是這樣不願意這小子裡失喪一個。
Even so it is not the will of your Father which is in heaven, that one of these little ones should perish.

18:15    倘若你的弟兄得罪你，你就去趁著只有他和你在一處的時候，指出他的錯來。他若聽你，你便得了你的弟兄。
Moreover if thy brother shall trespass against thee, go and tell him his fault between thee and him alone: if he shall hear thee, thou hast gained thy brother.

18:16    他若不聽，你就另外帶一兩個人同去，要憑兩三個人的口作見證，句句都可定準。
But if he will not hear thee, then take with thee one or two more, that in the mouth of two or three witnesses every word may be established.

18:17    若是不聽他們，就告訴教會。若是不聽教會，就看他像外邦人和稅吏一樣。
And if he shall neglect to hear them, tell it unto the church: but if he neglect to hear the church, let him be unto thee as an heathen man and a publican.

18:18    我實在告訴你們，凡你們在地上所捆綁的，在天上也要捆綁。凡你們在地上所釋放的，在天上也要釋放。
Verily I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever ye shall loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven.

18:19    我又告訴你們，若是你們中間有兩個人在地上，同心合意的求什麼事，我在天上的父，必為他們成全。
Again I say unto you, That if two of you shall agree on earth as touching any thing that they shall ask, it shall be done for them of my Father which is in heaven.

18:20    因為無論在那裡，有兩三個人奉我的名聚會，那裡有我在他們中間。
For where two or three are gathered together in my name, there am I in the midst of them.

18:21    那時彼得進前來，對耶穌說，主阿，我弟兄得罪我，我當饒恕他幾次呢。七次可以嗎。
Then came Peter to him, and said, Lord, how oft shall my brother sin against me, and I forgive him? till seven times?

18:22    耶穌說，我對你說，不是到七次，乃是到七十個七次。
Jesus saith unto him, I say not unto thee, Until seven times: but, Until seventy times seven.

18:23    天國好像一個王，要和他僕人算賬。
Therefore is the kingdom of heaven likened unto a certain king, which would take account of his servants.

18:24    才算的時候，有人帶了一個欠一千萬銀子的來。
And when he had begun to reckon, one was brought unto him, which owed him ten thousand talents.

18:25    因為他沒有償還之物，主人吩咐把他和他妻子兒女，並一切所有的都賣了償還。
But forasmuch as he had not to pay, his lord commanded him to be sold, and his wife, and children, and all that he had, and payment to be made.

18:26    那僕人就俯伏拜他說，主阿，寬容我，將來我都要還清。
The servant therefore fell down, and worshipped him, saying, Lord, have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.

18:27    那僕人的主人，就動了慈心，把他釋放了，並且免了他的債。
Then the lord of that servant was moved with compassion, and loosed him, and forgave him the debt.

18:28    那僕人出來，遇見他的一個同伴，欠他十兩銀子，便揪著他，掐住他的喉嚨，說，你把所欠的還我。
But the same servant went out, and found one of his fellowservants, which owed him an hundred pence: and he laid hands on him, and took him by the throat, saying, Pay me that thou owest.

18:29    他的同伴就俯伏央求他，說，寬容我吧，將來我必還清。
And his fellowservant fell down at his feet, and besought him, saying, Have patience with me, and I will pay thee all.

18:30    他不肯，竟去把他下在監裡，等他還了所欠的債。
And he would not: but went and cast him into prison, till he should pay the debt.

18:31    眾同伴看見他所作的事，就甚憂愁，去把這事都告訴了主人。
So when his fellowservants saw what was done, they were very sorry, and came and told unto their lord all that was done.

18:32    於是主人叫了他來，對他說，你這惡奴才，你央求我，我就把你所欠的都免了。
Then his lord, after that he had called him, said unto him, O thou wicked servant, I forgave thee all that debt, because thou desiredst me:

18:33    你不應當憐恤你的同伴像我憐恤你嗎。
Shouldest not thou also have had compassion on thy fellowservant, even as I had pity on thee?

18:34    主人就大怒，把他交給掌刑的，等他還清了所欠的債。
And his lord was wroth, and delivered him to the tormentors, till he should pay all that was due unto him.

18:35    你們各人若不從心裡饒恕你的弟兄，我天父也要這樣待你們了。
So likewise shall my heavenly Father do also unto you, if ye from your hearts forgive not every one his brother their trespasses.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


19:1    耶穌說完了這些話，就離開加利利，來到猶太的境界，約旦河外。
And it came to pass, that when Jesus had finished these sayings, he departed from Galilee, and came into the coasts of Judaea beyond Jordan;

19:2    有許多人跟著他。他就在那裡把他們的病人治好了。
And great multitudes followed him; and he healed them there.

19:3    有法利賽人來試探耶穌說，人無論什麼緣故，都可以休妻嗎。
The Pharisees also came unto him, tempting him, and saying unto him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife for every cause?

19:4    耶穌回答說，那起初造人的，是造男造女，
And he answered and said unto them, Have ye not read, that he which made them at the beginning made them male and female,

19:5    並且說，因此，人要離開父母，與妻子連合，二人成為一體。這經你們沒有念過嗎。
And said, For this cause shall a man leave father and mother, and shall cleave to his wife: and they twain shall be one flesh?

19:6    既然如此，夫妻不再是兩個人，乃是一體的了。所以神所配合的，人不可分開。
Wherefore they are no more twain, but one flesh. What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.

19:7    法利賽人說，這樣，摩西為什麼吩咐給妻子休書，就可以休他呢。
They say unto him, Why did Moses then command to give a writing of divorcement, and to put her away?

19:8    耶穌說，摩西因為你們的心硬，所以許你們休妻。但起初並不是這樣。
He saith unto them, Moses because of the hardness of your hearts suffered you to put away your wives: but from the beginning it was not so.

19:9    我告訴你們，凡休妻另娶的，若不是為淫亂的緣故，就是犯奸淫了，有人娶那被休的婦人，也是犯奸淫了。
And I say unto you, Whosoever shall put away his wife, except it be for fornication, and shall marry another, committeth adultery: and whoso marrieth her which is put away doth commit adultery.

19:10    門徒對耶穌說，人和妻子既是這樣，倒不如不娶。
His disciples say unto him, If the case of the man be so with his wife, it is not good to marry.

19:11    耶穌說，這話不是人都能領受的。惟獨賜給誰，誰才能領受。
But he said unto them, All men cannot receive this saying, save they to whom it is given.

19:12    因為有生來是閹人，也有被人閹的，並有為天國的緣故自閹的。這話誰能領受，就可以領受。
For there are some eunuchs, which were so born from their mother's womb: and there are some eunuchs, which were made eunuchs of men: and there be eunuchs, which have made themselves eunuchs for the kingdom of heaven's sake. He that is able to receive it, let him receive it.

19:13    那時有人帶著小孩子來見耶穌，要耶穌給他們按手禱告。門徒就責備那些人。
Then were there brought unto him little children, that he should put his hands on them, and pray: and the disciples rebuked them.

19:14    耶穌說，讓小孩子到我這裡來，不要禁止他們。因為在天國的，正是這樣的人。
But Jesus said, Suffer little children, and forbid them not, to come unto me: for of such is the kingdom of heaven.

19:15    耶穌給他們按手，就離開那地方去了。
And he laid his hands on them, and departed thence.

19:16    有一個人來見耶穌說，夫子，（有古卷作良善的夫子）我該作什麼善事，才能得永生。
And, behold, one came and said unto him, Good Master, what good thing shall I do, that I may have eternal life?

19:17    耶穌對他說，你為什麼以善事問我呢，只有一位是善的，（有古卷作你為什麼稱我是良善的，除了神以外，沒有一個良善的）你若要進入永生，就當遵守誡命。
And he said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God: but if thou wilt enter into life, keep the commandments.

19:18    他說，什麼誡命。耶穌說，就是不可殺人，不可姦淫，不可偷盜，不可作假見證，
He saith unto him, Which? Jesus said, Thou shalt do no murder, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness,

19:19    當孝敬父母。又當愛人如己。
Honour thy father and thy mother: and, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

19:20    那少年人說，這一切我都遵守了。還缺少什麼呢。
The young man saith unto him, All these things have I kept from my youth up: what lack I yet?

19:21    耶穌說，你若願意作完全人，可以去變賣你所有的，分給窮人，就必有財寶在天上，你還要來跟從我。
Jesus said unto him, If thou wilt be perfect, go and sell that thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come and follow me.

19:22    那少年人聽見這話，就憂憂愁愁的走了。因為他的產業很多。
But when the young man heard that saying, he went away sorrowful: for he had great possessions.

19:23    耶穌對門徒說，我實在告訴你們，財主進天國是難的。
Then said Jesus unto his disciples, Verily I say unto you, That a rich man shall hardly enter into the kingdom of heaven.

19:24    我又告訴你們，駱駝穿過針的眼，比財主進神的國還容易呢。
And again I say unto you, It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.

19:25    門徒聽見這話，就希奇得很，說，這樣誰能得救呢。
When his disciples heard it, they were exceedingly amazed, saying, Who then can be saved?

19:26    耶穌看著他們說，在人這是不能的。在神凡事都能。
But Jesus beheld them, and said unto them, With men this is impossible; but with God all things are possible.

19:27    彼得就對他說，看哪，我們已經撇下所有的跟從你，將來我們要得什麼呢。
Then answered Peter and said unto him, Behold, we have forsaken all, and followed thee; what shall we have therefore?

19:28    耶穌說，我實在告訴你們，你們這跟從我的人，到復興的時候，人子坐在他榮耀的寶座上，你們也要坐在十二寶座上，審判以色列十二個支派。
And Jesus said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That ye which have followed me, in the regeneration when the Son of man shall sit in the throne of his glory, ye also shall sit upon twelve thrones, judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

19:29    凡為我的名撇下房屋，或是弟兄，姐妹，父親，母親，（有古卷添妻子），兒女，田地的，必要得著百倍，並且承受永生。
And every one that hath forsaken houses, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my name's sake, shall receive an hundredfold, and shall inherit everlasting life.

19:30    然而有許多在前的將要在後，在後的將要在前。
But many that are first shall be last; and the last shall be first.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


20:1    因為天國好像家主，清早去僱人，進他的葡萄園作工。
For the kingdom of heaven is like unto a man that is an householder, which went out early in the morning to hire labourers into his vineyard.

20:2    和工人講定一天一銀子，就打發他們進葡萄園去。
And when he had agreed with the labourers for a penny a day, he sent them into his vineyard.

20:3    約在巳初出去，看見市上還有閒站的人。
And he went out about the third hour, and saw others standing idle in the marketplace,

20:4    就對他們說，你們也進葡萄園去，所當給的，我必給你們。他們也進去了。
And said unto them; Go ye also into the vineyard, and whatsoever is right I will give you. And they went their way.

20:5    約在午正和申初又出去，也是這樣行。
Again he went out about the sixth and ninth hour, and did likewise.

20:6    約在酉初出去，看見還有人站在那裡。就問他們說，你們為什麼整天在這裡閒站呢。
And about the eleventh hour he went out, and found others standing idle, and saith unto them, Why stand ye here all the day idle?

20:7    他們說，因為沒有人僱我們。他說，你們也進葡萄園去。
They say unto him, Because no man hath hired us. He saith unto them, Go ye also into the vineyard; and whatsoever is right, that shall ye receive.

20:8    到了晚上，園主對管事的說，叫工人都來，給他們工錢，從後來的起，到先來的為止。
So when even was come, the lord of the vineyard saith unto his steward, Call the labourers, and give them their hire, beginning from the last unto the first.

20:9    約在酉初僱來的人來了，各人得了一錢銀子。
And when they came that were hired about the eleventh hour, they received every man a penny.

20:10    及至那先僱的來了，他們以為必要多得。誰知也是各得一錢。
But when the first came, they supposed that they should have received more; and they likewise received every man a penny.

20:11    他們得了，就埋怨家主說，
And when they had received it, they murmured against the goodman of the house,

20:12    我們整天勞苦受熱，那後來的只做了一小時，你竟叫他們和我們一樣嗎。
Saying, These last have wrought but one hour, and thou hast made them equal unto us, which have borne the burden and heat of the day.

20:13    家主回答其中的一人說，朋友，我不虧負你。你與我講定的，不是一錢銀子嗎。
But he answered one of them, and said, Friend, I do thee no wrong: didst not thou agree with me for a penny?

20:14    拿你的走吧。我給那後來的和給你一樣，這是我願意的。
Take that thine is, and go thy way: I will give unto this last, even as unto thee.

20:15    我的東西難道不可隨我的意思用嗎。因為我作好人，你就紅了眼嗎。
Is it not lawful for me to do what I will with mine own? Is thine eye evil, because I am good?

20:16    這樣，那在後的將要在前，在前的將要在後了。（有古卷在此有因為被召的人多，選上的人少）
So the last shall be first, and the first last: for many be called, but few chosen.

20:17    耶穌上耶路撒冷去的時候，在路上把十二個門徒帶到一邊對他們說，
And Jesus going up to Jerusalem took the twelve disciples apart in the way, and said unto them,

20:18    看哪，我們上耶路撒冷去，人子要被交給祭司長和文士。他們要定他死罪。
Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be betrayed unto the chief priests and unto the scribes, and they shall condemn him to death,

20:19    又交給外邦人，將他戲弄，鞭打，釘在十字架上。第三日他要復活。
And shall deliver him to the Gentiles to mock, and to scourge, and to crucify him: and the third day he shall rise again.

20:20    那時，西庇太兒子的母親，同他兩個兒子前來，拜耶穌求他一件事。
Then came to him the mother of Zebedee's children with her sons, worshipping him, and desiring a certain thing of him.

20:21    耶穌說，你要什麼呢。他說，願你叫我這兩個兒子在你國裡，一個坐在你右邊，一個坐在你左邊。
And he said unto her, What wilt thou? She saith unto him, Grant that these my two sons may sit, the one on thy right hand, and the other on the left, in thy kingdom.

20:22    耶穌回答說，你們不知道所求的是什麼。我將要喝的杯，你們能喝嗎。他們說，我們能。
But Jesus answered and said, Ye know not what ye ask. Are ye able to drink of the cup that I shall drink of, and to be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with? They say unto him, We are able.

20:23    耶穌說，我所喝的杯，你們必要喝。只是坐在我的左右，不是我可以賜的，乃是我父為誰豫備的，就賜給誰。
And he saith unto them, Ye shall drink indeed of my cup, and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with: but to sit on my right hand, and on my left, is not mine to give, but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared of my Father.

20:24    那十個門徒聽見，就惱怒他們弟兄二人。
And when the ten heard it, they were moved with indignation against the two brethren.

20:25    耶穌叫了他們來，說，你們知道外邦人有君王為主治理他們，有大臣操權管束他們。
But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Ye know that the princes of the Gentiles exercise dominion over them, and they that are great exercise authority upon them.

20:26    只是在你們中間不可這樣。你們中間誰願為大，就必作你們的用人。
But it shall not be so among you: but whosoever will be great among you, let him be your minister;

20:27    誰願為首，就必作你們的僕人。
And whosoever will be chief among you, let him be your servant:

20:28    正如人子來，不是要受人的服事，乃是要服事人。並且要捨命，作多人的贖價。
Even as the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.

20:29    他們出耶利哥的時候，有極多的人跟隨他，
And as they departed from Jericho, a great multitude followed him.

20:30    有兩個瞎子坐在路旁，聽說是耶穌經過，就喊著說，主阿，大衛的子孫，可憐我們吧。
And, behold, two blind men sitting by the way side, when they heard that Jesus passed by, cried out, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David.

20:31    眾人責備他們，不許他們作聲。他們卻越發喊著說，主阿，大衛的子孫，可憐我們吧。
And the multitude rebuked them, because they should hold their peace: but they cried the more, saying, Have mercy on us, O Lord, thou son of David.

20:32    耶穌就站住，叫他們來，說，要我為你們作什麼。
And Jesus stood still, and called them, and said, What will ye that I shall do unto you?

20:33    他們說，主阿，要我們的眼睛能看見。
They say unto him, Lord, that our eyes may be opened.

20:34    耶穌就動了慈心，把他們的眼睛一摸，他們立刻看見，就跟從了耶穌。
So Jesus had compassion on them, and touched their eyes: and immediately their eyes received sight, and they followed him.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


21:1    耶穌和門徒將近耶路撒冷，到了伯法其在橄欖山那裡。
And when they drew nigh unto Jerusalem, and were come to Bethphage, unto the mount of Olives, then sent Jesus two disciples,

21:2    耶穌就打發兩個門徒，對他們說，你們往對面村子裡去，必看見一匹驢拴在那裡，還有驢駒同在一處。你們解開牽到我這裡來。
Saying unto them, Go into the village over against you, and straightway ye shall find an ass tied, and a colt with her: loose them, and bring them unto me.

21:3    若有人對你們說什麼，你們就說，主要用他。那人必立時讓你們牽來。
And if any man say ought unto you, ye shall say, The Lord hath need of them; and straightway he will send them.

21:4    這事成就，是要應驗先知的話，說，
All this was done, that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, saying,

21:5    要對錫安的居民（原文作女子）說，看哪，你的王來到你這裡，是溫柔的，又騎著驢，就是騎著驢駒子。
Tell ye the daughter of Sion, Behold, thy King cometh unto thee, meek, and sitting upon an ass, and a colt the foal of an ass.

21:6    門徒就照耶穌所吩咐的去行，
And the disciples went, and did as Jesus commanded them,

21:7    牽了驢和驢駒來，把自己的衣服搭在上面，耶穌就騎上。
And brought the ass, and the colt, and put on them their clothes, and they set him thereon.

21:8    眾人多半把衣服鋪在路上。還有人砍下樹枝來鋪在路上。
And a very great multitude spread their garments in the way; others cut down branches from the trees, and strawed them in the way.

21:9    前行後隨的眾人，喊著說，和散那歸於大衛的子孫，（和散那原有求救的意思，在此乃稱頌的話）奉主名來的，是應當稱頌的。高高在上和散那。
And the multitudes that went before, and that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna to the son of David: Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord; Hosanna in the highest.

21:10    耶穌既進了耶路撒冷，合城都驚動了，說，這是誰。
And when he was come into Jerusalem, all the city was moved, saying, Who is this?

21:11    眾人說，這是加利利拿撒勒的先知耶穌。
And the multitude said, This is Jesus the prophet of Nazareth of Galilee.

21:12    耶穌進了神的殿，趕出殿裡一切作買賣的人，推倒兌換銀錢之人的桌子，和賣鴿子之人的凳子。
And Jesus went into the temple of God, and cast out all them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves,

21:13    對他們說，經上記著說，我的殿必稱為禱告的殿。你們倒使他成為賊窩了。
And said unto them, It is written, My house shall be called the house of prayer; but ye have made it a den of thieves.

21:14    在殿裡有瞎子瘸子，到耶穌跟前。他就治好了他們。
And the blind and the lame came to him in the temple; and he healed them.

21:15    祭司長和文士，看見耶穌所行的奇事，又見小孩子在殿裡喊著說，和散那歸於大衛的子孫。就甚惱怒，
And when the chief priests and scribes saw the wonderful things that he did, and the children crying in the temple, and saying, Hosanna to the son of David; they were sore displeased,

21:16    對他說，這些人所說的，你聽見了嗎。耶穌說，是的經上說，你從嬰孩和吃奶的口中，完全了讚美的話。你們沒有念過嗎。
And said unto him, Hearest thou what these say? And Jesus saith unto them, Yea; have ye never read, Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings thou hast perfected praise?

21:17    於是離開他們出城到伯大尼去，在那裡住宿。
And he left them, and went out of the city into Bethany; and he lodged there.

21:18    早晨回城的時候，他餓了。
Now in the morning as he returned into the city, he hungered.

21:19    看見路旁有一棵無花果樹，就走到跟前，在樹上找不著什麼，不過有葉子。就對樹說，從今以後，你永不結果子。那無花果樹就立刻枯乾了。
And when he saw a fig tree in the way, he came to it, and found nothing thereon, but leaves only, and said unto it, Let no fruit grow on thee henceforward for ever. And presently the fig tree withered away.

21:20    門徒看見了，便希奇說，無花果樹怎嗎立刻枯乾了呢。
And when the disciples saw it, they marvelled, saying, How soon is the fig tree withered away!

21:21    耶穌回答說，我實在告訴你們，你們若有信心，不疑惑，不但能行無花果樹上所行的事，就是對這座山說，你挪開此地，投在海里，也必成就。
Jesus answered and said unto them, Verily I say unto you, If ye have faith, and doubt not, ye shall not only do this which is done to the fig tree, but also if ye shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; it shall be done.

21:22    你們禱告，無論求什麼，只要信，就必得著。
And all things, whatsoever ye shall ask in prayer, believing, ye shall receive.

21:23    耶穌進了殿，正教訓人的時候，祭司長和民間的長老來問他說，你仗著什麼權柄作這些事。給你這權柄的是誰呢。
And when he was come into the temple, the chief priests and the elders of the people came unto him as he was teaching, and said, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority?

21:24    耶穌回答說，我也要問你們一句話，你們若告訴我，我就告訴你們我仗著什麼權柄作這些事。
And Jesus answered and said unto them, I also will ask you one thing, which if ye tell me, I in like wise will tell you by what authority I do these things.

21:25    約翰的洗禮是從那裡來的。是從天上來的，是從人間來的呢。他們彼此商議說，我們若說從天上來，他必對我們說，這樣，你們為什麼不信他呢。
The baptism of John, whence was it? from heaven, or of men? And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say unto us, Why did ye not then believe him?

21:26    若說從人間來，我們又怕百姓。因為他們都以約翰為先知。
But if we shall say, Of men; we fear the people; for all hold John as a prophet.

21:27    於是回答耶穌說，我們不知道。耶穌說，我也不告訴你們我仗著什麼權柄作這些事。
And they answered Jesus, and said, We cannot tell. And he said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.

21:28    又說，一個人有兩個兒子，他來對大兒子說，我兒，你今天到葡萄園裡去作工。
But what think ye? A certain man had two sons; and he came to the first, and said, Son, go work to day in my vineyard.

21:29    他回答說，我不去。以後自己懊悔就去了。
He answered and said, I will not: but afterward he repented, and went.

21:30    又來對小兒子也是這樣說，他回答說，父阿，我去。他卻不去。
And he came to the second, and said likewise. And he answered and said, I go, sir: and went not.

21:31    你們想這兩個兒子，是那一個遵行父命呢。他們說，大兒子。耶穌說，我實在告訴你們，稅吏和娼妓，倒比你們先進神的國。
Whether of them twain did the will of his father? They say unto him, The first. Jesus saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That the publicans and the harlots go into the kingdom of God before you.

21:32    因為約翰遵著義路到你們這裡來，你們卻不信他。稅吏和娼妓倒信他。你們看見了，後來還是不懊悔去信他。
For John came unto you in the way of righteousness, and ye believed him not: but the publicans and the harlots believed him: and ye, when ye had seen it, repented not afterward, that ye might believe him.

21:33    你們再聽一個比喻。有個家主，栽了一個葡萄園，周圍圈上籬笆，裡面挖了一個壓酒池，蓋了一座樓，租給園戶，就往外國去了。
Hear another parable: There was a certain householder, which planted a vineyard, and hedged it round about, and digged a winepress in it, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country:

21:34    收果子的時候近了，就打發僕人，到園戶那裡去收果子。
And when the time of the fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the husbandmen, that they might receive the fruits of it.

21:35    園戶拿住僕人。打了一個，殺了一個，用石頭打死一個。
And the husbandmen took his servants, and beat one, and killed another, and stoned another.

21:36    主人又打發別的僕人去，比先前更多。園戶還是照樣待他們。
Again, he sent other servants more than the first: and they did unto them likewise.

21:37    後來打發他的兒子到他們那裡去，意思說，他們必尊敬我的兒子。
But last of all he sent unto them his son, saying, They will reverence my son.

21:38    不料，園戶看見他兒子，就彼此說，這是承受產業的。來吧，我們殺他，佔他的產業。
But when the husbandmen saw the son, they said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and let us seize on his inheritance.

21:39    他們就拿住他，推出葡萄園外殺了。
And they caught him, and cast him out of the vineyard, and slew him.

21:40    園主來的時候，要怎樣處治這些園戶呢。
When the lord therefore of the vineyard cometh, what will he do unto those husbandmen?

21:41    他們說，要下毒手除滅那些惡人，將葡萄園另租給那按著時候交果子的園戶。
They say unto him, He will miserably destroy those wicked men, and will let out his vineyard unto other husbandmen, which shall render him the fruits in their seasons.

21:42    耶穌說，經上寫著，匠人所棄的石頭，已作了房角的頭塊石頭。這是主所作的，在我們眼中看為希奇。這經你們沒有念過嗎。
Jesus saith unto them, Did ye never read in the scriptures, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner: this is the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?

21:43    所以我告訴你們，神的國，必從你們奪去。賜給那能結果子的百姓。
Therefore say I unto you, The kingdom of God shall be taken from you, and given to a nation bringing forth the fruits thereof.

21:44    誰掉在這石頭上，必要跌碎。這石頭掉在誰的身上，就要把誰咂得稀爛。
And whosoever shall fall on this stone shall be broken: but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.

21:45    祭司長和法利賽人，聽見他的比喻，就看出他是指著他們說的。
And when the chief priests and Pharisees had heard his parables, they perceived that he spake of them.

21:46    他們想要捉拿他，只是怕眾人，因為眾人以他為先知。
But when they sought to lay hands on him, they feared the multitude, because they took him for a prophet.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


22:1    耶穌又用比喻對他們說，
And Jesus answered and spake unto them again by parables, and said,

22:2    天國好比一個王，為他兒子擺設娶親的筵席。
The kingdom of heaven is like unto a certain king, which made a marriage for his son,

22:3    就打發僕人去請那些被召的人來赴席。他們卻不肯來。
And sent forth his servants to call them that were bidden to the wedding: and they would not come.

22:4    王又打發別的僕人說，你們告訴那被召的人，我的筵席已經豫備好了，牛和肥畜已經宰了，各樣都齊備。請你們來赴席。
Again, he sent forth other servants, saying, Tell them which are bidden, Behold, I have prepared my dinner: my oxen and my fatlings are killed, and all things are ready: come unto the marriage.

22:5    那些人不理就走了。一個到自己田裡去。一個作買賣去。
But they made light of it, and went their ways, one to his farm, another to his merchandise:

22:6    其餘的拿住僕人，凌辱他們，把他們殺了。
And the remnant took his servants, and entreated them spitefully, and slew them.

22:7    王就大怒，發兵除滅那些凶手，燒燬他們的城。
But when the king heard thereof, he was wroth: and he sent forth his armies, and destroyed those murderers, and burned up their city.

22:8    於是對僕人說，喜筵已經齊備，只是所召的人不配。
Then saith he to his servants, The wedding is ready, but they which were bidden were not worthy.

22:9    所以你們要往岔路口上去，凡遇見的，都召來赴席。
Go ye therefore into the highways, and as many as ye shall find, bid to the marriage.

22:10    那些僕人就出去到大路上，凡遇見的，不論善惡都召聚了來。筵席上坐滿了客。
So those servants went out into the highways, and gathered together all as many as they found, both bad and good: and the wedding was furnished with guests.

22:11    王進來觀看賓客，見那裡有一個沒有穿禮服的。
And when the king came in to see the guests, he saw there a man which had not on a wedding garment:

22:12    就對他說，朋友，你到這裡來，怎嗎不穿禮服呢。那人無言可答。
And he saith unto him, Friend, how camest thou in hither not having a wedding garment? And he was speechless.

22:13    於是王對使喚的人說，捆起他的手腳來，把他丟在外邊的黑暗裡。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
Then said the king to the servants, Bind him hand and foot, and take him away, and cast him into outer darkness; there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

22:14    因為被召的人多，選上的人少。
For many are called, but few are chosen.

22:15    當時，法利賽人出去商議，怎樣就著耶穌的話陷害他。
Then went the Pharisees, and took counsel how they might entangle him in his talk.

22:16    就打發他們的門徒，同希律黨的人，去見耶穌說，夫子，我們知道你是誠實人，並且誠誠實實傳神的道，什麼人你都不徇情面，因為你不看人的外貌。
And they sent out unto him their disciples with the Herodians, saying, Master, we know that thou art true, and teachest the way of God in truth, neither carest thou for any man: for thou regardest not the person of men.

22:17    請告訴我們，你的意見如何。納稅給凱撒，可以不可以。
Tell us therefore, What thinkest thou? Is it lawful to give tribute unto Caesar, or not?

22:18    耶穌看出他們的惡意，就說，假冒為善的人哪，為什麼試探我。
But Jesus perceived their wickedness, and said, Why tempt ye me, ye hypocrites?

22:19    拿一個上稅的錢給我看。他們就拿一個銀錢來給他。
Shew me the tribute money. And they brought unto him a penny.

22:20    耶穌說，這像和這號是誰的。
And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription?

22:21    他們說，是凱撒的。耶穌說，這樣，凱撒的物當歸給凱撒，神的物當歸給神。
They say unto him, Caesar's. Then saith he unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which are Caesar's; and unto God the things that are God's.

22:22    他們聽見就希奇，離開他走了。
When they had heard these words, they marvelled, and left him, and went their way.

22:23    撒都該人常說沒有復活的事。那天，他們來問耶穌說，
The same day came to him the Sadducees, which say that there is no resurrection, and asked him,

22:24    夫子，摩西說，人若死了，沒有孩子，他兄弟當娶他的妻，為哥哥生子立後。
Saying, Master, Moses said, If a man die, having no children, his brother shall marry his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.

22:25    從前在我們這裡，有弟兄七人。第一個娶了妻，死了，沒有孩子，撇下妻子給兄弟。
Now there were with us seven brethren: and the first, when he had married a wife, deceased, and, having no issue, left his wife unto his brother:

22:26    第二第三直到第七個，都是如此。
Likewise the second also, and the third, unto the seventh.

22:27    末後，婦人也死了。
And last of all the woman died also.

22:28    這樣當復活的時候，他是七個人中，那一個的妻子呢。因為他們都娶過他。
Therefore in the resurrection whose wife shall she be of the seven? for they all had her.

22:29    耶穌回答說，你們錯了。因為不明白聖經，也不曉得神的大能。
Jesus answered and said unto them, Ye do err, not knowing the scriptures, nor the power of God.

22:30    當復活的時候，人也不娶也不嫁，乃像天上的使者一樣。
For in the resurrection they neither marry, nor are given in marriage, but are as the angels of God in heaven.

22:31    論到死人復活，神在經上向你們所說的，你們沒有念過嗎。
But as touching the resurrection of the dead, have ye not read that which was spoken unto you by God, saying,

22:32    他說，我是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神。神不是死人的神，乃是活人的神。
I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob? God is not the God of the dead, but of the living.

22:33    眾人聽見這話，就希奇他的教訓。
And when the multitude heard this, they were astonished at his doctrine.

22:34    法利賽人聽見耶穌堵住了撒都該人的口，他們就聚集。
But when the Pharisees had heard that he had put the Sadducees to silence, they were gathered together.

22:35    內中有一個人是律法師，要試探耶穌，就問他說，
Then one of them, which was a lawyer, asked him a question, tempting him, and saying,

22:36    夫子，律法上的誡命，那一條是最大的呢。
Master, which is the great commandment in the law?

22:37    耶穌對他說，你要盡心，儘性，盡意，愛主你的神。
Jesus said unto him, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind.

22:38    這是誡命中的第一，且是最大的。
This is the first and great commandment.

22:39    其次也相仿，就是要愛人如己。
And the second is like unto it, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

22:40    這兩條誡命，是律法和先知一切道里的總綱。
On these two commandments hang all the law and the prophets.

22:41    法利賽人聚集的時候，耶穌問他們說，
While the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them,

22:42    論到基督，你們的意見如何。他是誰的子孫呢。他們回答說，是大衛的子孫。
Saying, What think ye of Christ? whose son is he? They say unto him, The son of David.

22:43    耶穌說，這樣，大衛被聖靈感動，怎嗎還稱他為主。說，
He saith unto them, How then doth David in spirit call him Lord, saying,

22:44    主對我主說，你坐在我的右邊，等我把你仇敵，放在你的腳下。
The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool?

22:45    大衛既稱他為主，他怎嗎又是大衛的子孫呢。
If David then call him Lord, how is he his son?

22:46    他們沒有一個人能回答一言。從那日以後，也沒有人敢再問他什麼。
And no man was able to answer him a word, neither durst any man from that day forth ask him any more questions.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


23:1    那時，耶穌對眾人和門徒講論，
Then spake Jesus to the multitude, and to his disciples,

23:2    說，文士和法利賽人，坐在摩西的位上。
Saying, The scribes and the Pharisees sit in Moses' seat:

23:3    凡他們所吩咐你們的，你們都要謹守，遵行。但不要效法他們的行為。因為他們能說不能行。
All therefore whatsoever they bid you observe, that observe and do; but do not ye after their works: for they say, and do not.

23:4    他們把難擔的重擔，捆起來擱在人的肩上。但自己一個指頭也不肯動。
For they bind heavy burdens and grievous to be borne, and lay them on men's shoulders; but they themselves will not move them with one of their fingers.

23:5    他們一切所作的事，都是要叫人看見。所以將佩戴的經文做寬了，衣裳的？？子做長了。
But all their works they do for to be seen of men: they make broad their phylacteries, and enlarge the borders of their garments,

23:6    喜愛筵席上的首座，會堂裡的高位。
And love the uppermost rooms at feasts, and the chief seats in the synagogues,

23:7    又喜愛人在街市上問他安，稱呼他拉比。（拉比就是夫子）
And greetings in the markets, and to be called of men, Rabbi, Rabbi.

23:8    但你們不要受拉比的稱呼。因為只有一位是你們的夫子。你們都是弟兄。
But be not ye called Rabbi: for one is your Master, even Christ; and all ye are brethren.

23:9    也不要稱呼地上的人為父。因為只有一位是你們的父，就是在天上的父。
And call no man your father upon the earth: for one is your Father, which is in heaven.

23:10    也不要受師尊的稱呼。因為只有一位是你們的師尊，就是基督。
Neither be ye called masters: for one is your Master, even Christ.

23:11    你們中間誰為大，誰就要作你們的用人。
But he that is greatest among you shall be your servant.

23:12    凡自高的必降為卑，自卑的必升為高。
And whosoever shall exalt himself shall be abased; and he that shall humble himself shall be exalted.

23:13    你們這假冒為善的文士和法利賽人有禍了。因為你們正當人前把天國的門關了。自己不進去，正要進去的人，你們也不容他們進去。（有古卷在此有
But woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye shut up the kingdom of heaven against men: for ye neither go in yourselves, neither suffer ye them that are entering to go in.



23:14    你們這假冒為善的文士和法利賽人有禍了，因為你們侵吞寡婦的家產，假意作很長的禱告，你們要受更重的刑罰）
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayer: therefore ye shall receive the greater damnation.

23:15    你們這假冒為善的文士法利賽人有禍了。因為你們走遍洋海陸地，勾引一個人入教。既入了教，卻使他作地獄之子，比你們還加倍。
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye compass sea and land to make one proselyte, and when he is made, ye make him twofold more the child of hell than yourselves.

23:16    你們這瞎眼領路的有禍了。你們說，凡指著殿起誓的，這算不得什麼。只是凡指著殿中金子起誓的，他就該謹守。
Woe unto you, ye blind guides, which say, Whosoever shall swear by the temple, it is nothing; but whosoever shall swear by the gold of the temple, he is a debtor!

23:17    你們這無知瞎眼的人哪，什麼是大的，是金子呢，還是叫金子成聖的殿呢。
Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gold, or the temple that sanctifieth the gold?

23:18    你們又說，凡指著壇起誓的，這算不得什麼。只是指著壇上禮物起誓的，他就該謹守。
And, Whosoever shall swear by the altar, it is nothing; but whosoever sweareth by the gift that is upon it, he is guilty.

23:19    你們這瞎眼的人哪，什麼是大的，是禮物呢，還是叫禮物成聖的壇呢。
Ye fools and blind: for whether is greater, the gift, or the altar that sanctifieth the gift?

23:20    所以人指著壇起誓，就是指著壇和壇上一切所有的起誓。
Whoso therefore shall swear by the altar, sweareth by it, and by all things thereon.

23:21    人指著殿起誓，就是指著殿和住在殿裡的起誓。
And whoso shall swear by the temple, sweareth by it, and by him that dwelleth therein.

23:22    人指著天起誓，就是指著神的寶座和那坐在上面的起誓。
And he that shall swear by heaven, sweareth by the throne of God, and by him that sitteth thereon.

23:23    你們這假冒為善的文士和法利賽人有禍了。因為你們將薄荷，茴香，芹菜，太23：23）獻上十分之一。那律法上更重的事，就是公義，憐憫，信實，反倒不行了。這更重的是你們當行的；那也是不可不行的。
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye pay tithe of mint and anise and cummin, and have omitted the weightier matters of the law, judgment, mercy, and faith: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.

23:24    你們這瞎眼領路的，蠓蟲你們就濾出來，駱駝你們倒吞下去。
Ye blind guides, which strain at a gnat, and swallow a camel.

23:25    你們這假冒為善的文士和法利賽人有禍了。因為你們洗淨杯盤的外面，裡面卻盛滿了勒索和放蕩。
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye make clean the outside of the cup and of the platter, but within they are full of extortion and excess.

23:26    你這瞎眼的法利賽人，先洗淨杯盤的裡面，好叫外面也乾淨了。
Thou blind Pharisee, cleanse first that which is within the cup and platter, that the outside of them may be clean also.

23:27    你們這假冒為善的文士和法利賽人有禍了。因為你們好像粉飾的墳墓，外面好看，裡面卻裝滿了死人的骨頭，和一切的汙穢。
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are like unto whited sepulchres, which indeed appear beautiful outward, but are within full of dead men's bones, and of all uncleanness.

23:28    你們也是如此，在人前，外面顯出公義來，裡面卻裝滿了假善和不法的事。
Even so ye also outwardly appear righteous unto men, but within ye are full of hypocrisy and iniquity.

23:29    你們這假冒為善的文士和法利賽人有禍了。因為你們建造先知的墳，修飾義人的墓，說，
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! because ye build the tombs of the prophets, and garnish the sepulchres of the righteous,

23:30    若是我們在我們祖宗的時候，必不和他們同流先知的血。
And say, If we had been in the days of our fathers, we would not have been partakers with them in the blood of the prophets.

23:31    這就是你們自己證明，是殺害先知者的子孫了。
Wherefore ye be witnesses unto yourselves, that ye are the children of them which killed the prophets.

23:32    你們去充滿你們祖宗的惡貫吧。
Fill ye up then the measure of your fathers.

23:33    你們這些蛇類，毒蛇之種阿，怎能逃脫地獄的刑罰呢。
Ye serpents, ye generation of vipers, how can ye escape the damnation of hell?

23:34    所以我差譴先知和智慧人並文士，到你們這裡來。有的你們要殺害，要釘十字架。有的你們要在會堂裡鞭打，從這城追逼到那城。
Wherefore, behold, I send unto you prophets, and wise men, and scribes: and some of them ye shall kill and crucify; and some of them shall ye scourge in your synagogues, and persecute them from city to city:

23:35    叫世上所流義人的血，都歸到你們身上。從義人亞伯拉罕的血起，直到你們在殿和壇中間所殺的巴拉加的兒子撒迦利亞的血為止。
That upon you may come all the righteous blood shed upon the earth, from the blood of righteous Abel unto the blood of Zacharias son of Barachias, whom ye slew between the temple and the altar.

23:36    我實在告訴你們，這一切的罪，都要歸到這世代了。
Verily I say unto you, All these things shall come upon this generation.

23:37    耶路撒冷阿，耶路撒冷阿，你常殺害先知，又用石頭打死那奉差遣到你這裡來的人。我多次願意聚集你的兒女，好像母雞把小雞聚集在翅膀底下，只是你們不願意。
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, thou that killest the prophets, and stonest them which are sent unto thee, how often would I have gathered thy children together, even as a hen gathereth her chickens under her wings, and ye would not!

23:38    看哪，你們的家成為荒場，留給你們。
Behold, your house is left unto you desolate.

23:39    我告訴你們，從今以後，你們不得再見我，直等到你們說，奉主名來的，是應當稱頌的。
For I say unto you, Ye shall not see me henceforth, till ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


24:1    耶穌出了聖殿，正走的時候，門徒進前來，把殿宇指給他看。
And Jesus went out, and departed from the temple: and his disciples came to him for to shew him the buildings of the temple.

24:2    耶穌對他們說，你們不是看見這殿宇嗎。我實在告訴你們，將來在這裡，沒有一塊石頭留在石頭上不被拆毀的。
And Jesus said unto them, See ye not all these things? verily I say unto you, There shall not be left here one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.

24:3    耶穌在橄欖山上坐著，門徒暗暗的來說，請告訴我們，什麼時候有這些事。你降臨和世界的末了，有什麼豫兆呢。
And as he sat upon the mount of Olives, the disciples came unto him privately, saying, Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign of thy coming, and of the end of the world?

24:4    耶穌回答說，你們要謹慎，免得有人迷惑你們。
And Jesus answered and said unto them, Take heed that no man deceive you.

24:5    因為將來有好些人冒我的名來，說，我是基督，並且要迷惑許多人。
For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.

24:6    你們也要聽見打仗和打仗的風聲，總不要驚慌。因為這些事是必須有的。只是末期還沒有到。
And ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars: see that ye be not troubled: for all these things must come to pass, but the end is not yet.

24:7    民要攻打民，國要攻打國。多處必有饑荒，地震。
For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be famines, and pestilences, and earthquakes, in divers places.

24:8    這都是災難的起頭。（災難原文作生產之難）。
All these are the beginning of sorrows.

24:9    那時，人要把你們陷在患難裡，也要殺害你們。你們又要為我的名，被萬民恨惡。
Then shall they deliver you up to be afflicted, and shall kill you: and ye shall be hated of all nations for my name's sake.

24:10    那時，必有許多人跌倒，也要彼此陷害，彼此恨惡。
And then shall many be offended, and shall betray one another, and shall hate one another.

24:11    且有好些假先知起來，迷惑多人。
And many false prophets shall rise, and shall deceive many.

24:12    只因不法的事增多，許多人的愛心，才漸漸冷淡了。
And because iniquity shall abound, the love of many shall wax cold.

24:13    惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
But he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.

24:14    這天國的福音，要傳遍天下，對萬民作見證，然後末期才來到。
And this gospel of the kingdom shall be preached in all the world for a witness unto all nations; and then shall the end come.

24:15    你們看見先知但以理所說的，那行毀壞可憎的站在聖地。（讀這經的人須要會意）。
When ye therefore shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, stand in the holy place, (whoso readeth, let him understand:)

24:16    那時，在猶太的，應當逃到山上。
Then let them which be in Judaea flee into the mountains:



24:17    在房上的，不要下來拿家裡的東西。
Let him which is on the housetop not come down to take any thing out of his house:

24:18    在田裡的，也不要回去取衣裳。
Neither let him which is in the field return back to take his clothes.

24:19    當那些日子，懷孕的和奶孩子的有禍了。
And woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!

24:20    你們應當祈求，叫你們逃走的時候，不遇見冬天，或是安息日。
But pray ye that your flight be not in the winter, neither on the sabbath day:

24:21    因為那時必有災難，從世界的起頭，直到如今，沒有這樣的災難，後來也必沒有。
For then shall be great tribulation, such as was not since the beginning of the world to this time, no, nor ever shall be.

24:22    若不減少那日子，凡有血氣的，總沒有一個得救的。只是為選民，那日子必減少了。
And except those days should be shortened, there should no flesh be saved: but for the elect's sake those days shall be shortened.

24:23    那時若有人對你們說，基督在這裡。或說，基督在那裡，你們不要信。
Then if any man shall say unto you, Lo, here is Christ, or there; believe it not.

24:24    因為假基督，假先知，將要起來，顯大神蹟，大奇事。倘若能行，連選民也就迷惑了。
For there shall arise false Christs, and false prophets, and shall shew great signs and wonders; insomuch that, if it were possible, they shall deceive the very elect.

24:25    看哪，我豫先告訴你們了。
Behold, I have told you before.

24:26    若有人對你們說，看哪，基督在曠野裡。你們不要出去。或說。基督在內屋中。你們不要信。
Wherefore if they shall say unto you, Behold, he is in the desert; go not forth: behold, he is in the secret chambers; believe it not.

24:27    閃電從東邊發出，直照到西邊。人子降臨，也要這樣。
For as the lightning cometh out of the east, and shineth even unto the west; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.

24:28    屍首在那裡，鷹也必聚在那裡。
For wheresoever the carcase is, there will the eagles be gathered together.

24:29    那些日子的災難一過去，日頭就變黑了，月亮也不放光，眾星要從天上墜落，天勢都要震動。
Immediately after the tribulation of those days shall the sun be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light, and the stars shall fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens shall be shaken:

24:30    那時，人子的兆頭要顯在天上，地上的萬族都要哀哭。他們要看見人子，有能力，有大榮耀，駕著天上的雲降臨。
And then shall appear the sign of the Son of man in heaven: and then shall all the tribes of the earth mourn, and they shall see the Son of man coming in the clouds of heaven with power and great glory.

24:31    他要差遣使者，用號筒的大聲，將他的選民，從四方，從天這邊到天那邊，都招聚了來（方原文作風）。
And he shall send his angels with a great sound of a trumpet, and they shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from one end of heaven to the other.

24:32    你們可以從無花果樹學個比方。當樹枝發嫩長葉的時候，你們就知道夏天近了。
Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When his branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is nigh:

24:33    這樣，你們看見這一切的事，也該知道人子近了，正在門口了。
So likewise ye, when ye shall see all these things, know that it is near, even at the doors.

24:34    我實在告訴你們，這世代還沒有過去，這些事都要成就。
Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass, till all these things be fulfilled.

24:35    天地要廢去，我的話卻不能廢去。
Heaven and earth shall pass away, but my words shall not pass away.

24:36    但那日子，那時辰，沒有人知道，連天上的使者也不知道，子也不知道，惟獨父知道。
But of that day and hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels of heaven, but my Father only.

24:37    挪亞的日子怎樣，人子降臨也要怎樣。
But as the days of Noe were, so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.

24:38    當洪水以前的日子，人照常吃喝嫁娶，直到挪亞進方舟的那日。
For as in the days that were before the flood they were eating and drinking, marrying and giving in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark,

24:39    不知不覺洪水來了，把他們全部衝去。人子降臨也要這樣。
And knew not until the flood came, and took them all away; so shall also the coming of the Son of man be.

24:40    那時，兩個人在田裡，取去一個，撇下一個。
Then shall two be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.

24:41    兩個女人推磨。取去一個，撇下一個。
Two women shall be grinding at the mill; the one shall be taken, and the other left.

24:42    所以你們要儆醒，因為不知道你們的主是那一天來到。
Watch therefore: for ye know not what hour your Lord doth come.

24:43    家主若知道幾更天有賊來，就必儆醒，不容人挖透房屋。這是你們所知道的。
But know this, that if the goodman of the house had known in what watch the thief would come, he would have watched, and would not have suffered his house to be broken up.

24:44    所以你們也要豫備。因為你們想不到的時候，人子就來了。
Therefore be ye also ready: for in such an hour as ye think not the Son of man cometh.

24:45    誰是忠心有見識的僕人，為主人所派，管理家裡的人，按時分糧給他們呢。
Who then is a faithful and wise servant, whom his lord hath made ruler over his household, to give them meat in due season?

24:46    主人來到，看見他這樣行，那僕人就有福了。
Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.

24:47    我實在告訴你們，主人要派他管裡一切所有的。
Verily I say unto you, That he shall make him ruler over all his goods.

24:48    倘若那惡僕心裡說，我的主人必來得遲，
But and if that evil servant shall say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming;

24:49    就動手打他的同伴，又和酒醉的人一同吃喝。
And shall begin to smite his fellowservants, and to eat and drink with the drunken;

24:50    在想不到的日子，不知道的時辰，那僕人的主人要來，
The lord of that servant shall come in a day when he looketh not for him, and in an hour that he is not aware of,

24:51    重重的處治他，（或作把他腰斬了）定他和假冒為善的人同罪。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
And shall cut him asunder, and appoint him his portion with the hypocrites: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


25:1    那時，天國好比十個童女，拿著燈，出去迎接新郎。
Then shall the kingdom of heaven be likened unto ten virgins, which took their lamps, and went forth to meet the bridegroom.

25:2    其中有五個是愚拙的。五個是聰明的。
And five of them were wise, and five were foolish.

25:3    愚拙的拿著燈，卻不豫備油。
They that were foolish took their lamps, and took no oil with them:

25:4    聰明的拿著燈，又豫備油在器皿裡。
But the wise took oil in their vessels with their lamps.

25:5    新郎遲延的時候，他們都打盹睡著了。
While the bridegroom tarried, they all slumbered and slept.

25:6    半夜有人喊著說，新郎來了，你們出來迎接他。
And at midnight there was a cry made, Behold, the bridegroom cometh; go ye out to meet him.

25:7    那些童女就都起來收拾燈。
Then all those virgins arose, and trimmed their lamps.

25:8    愚拙的對聰明的說，請分點油給我們。因為我們的燈要滅了。
And the foolish said unto the wise, Give us of your oil; for our lamps are gone out.

25:9    聰明的回答說，恐怕不夠你我用的。不如你們自己到賣油的那裡去買吧。
But the wise answered, saying, Not so; lest there be not enough for us and you: but go ye rather to them that sell, and buy for yourselves.

25:10    他們去買的時候，新郎到了。那豫備好了的，同他進去坐席。門就關了。
And while they went to buy, the bridegroom came; and they that were ready went in with him to the marriage: and the door was shut.

25:11    其餘的童女，隨後也來了，說，主阿，主阿，給我們開門。
Afterward came also the other virgins, saying, Lord, Lord, open to us.

25:12    他卻回答說，我實在告訴你們，我不認識你們。
But he answered and said, Verily I say unto you, I know you not.

25:13    所以你們要儆醒，因為那日子，那時辰，你們不知道。
Watch therefore, for ye know neither the day nor the hour wherein the Son of man cometh.

25:14    天國又好比一個人要往外國去，就叫了僕人來，把他的家業交給他們。
For the kingdom of heaven is as a man travelling into a far country, who called his own servants, and delivered unto them his goods.

25:15    按著各人的才幹，給他們銀子。一個給了五千，一個給了二千，一個給了一千。就往外國去了。
And unto one he gave five talents, to another two, and to another one; to every man according to his several ability; and straightway took his journey.

25:16    那領五千的，隨既拿去做買賣，另外賺了五千。
Then he that had received the five talents went and traded with the same, and made them other five talents.

25:17    那領二千的，也照樣另賺了二千。
And likewise he that had received two, he also gained other two.

25:18    但那領一千的，去掘開地，把主人的銀子埋藏了。
But he that had received one went and digged in the earth, and hid his lord's money.

25:19    過了許久，那些僕人的主人來了，和他們算賬。
After a long time the lord of those servants cometh, and reckoneth with them.

25:20    那領五千銀子的，又帶著那另外的五千來，說，主阿，你交給我五千銀子，請看，我又賺了五千。
And so he that had received five talents came and brought other five talents, saying, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me five talents: behold, I have gained beside them five talents more.

25:21    主人說，好，你這又良善又忠心的僕人。你在不多的事上有忠心，我把許多事派你管理。可以進來享受你主人的快樂。
His lord said unto him, Well done, thou good and faithful servant: thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.

25:22    那領二千的也來說，主阿，你交給我二千銀子，請看，我又賺了二千。
He also that had received two talents came and said, Lord, thou deliveredst unto me two talents: behold, I have gained two other talents beside them.

25:23    主人說，好，你這又良善又忠心的僕人。你在不多的事上有忠心，我把許多事派你管理。可以進來享受你主人的快樂。
His lord said unto him, Well done, good and faithful servant; thou hast been faithful over a few things, I will make thee ruler over many things: enter thou into the joy of thy lord.

25:24    那領一千的，也來說，主阿，我知道你是忍心的人，沒有種的地方要收割，沒有散的地方要聚斂。
Then he which had received the one talent came and said, Lord, I knew thee that thou art an hard man, reaping where thou hast not sown, and gathering where thou hast not strawed:

25:25    我就害怕，去把你的一千銀子埋藏在地裡。請看，你的原銀在這裡。
And I was afraid, and went and hid thy talent in the earth: lo, there thou hast that is thine.

25:26    主人回答說，你這又惡又懶的僕人，你既知道我沒有種的地方要收割，沒有散的地方要聚斂。
His lord answered and said unto him, Thou wicked and slothful servant, thou knewest that I reap where I sowed not, and gather where I have not strawed:

25:27    就當把我的銀子放給兌換銀錢的人，到我來的時候，可以連本帶利收回。
Thou oughtest therefore to have put my money to the exchangers, and then at my coming I should have received mine own with usury.

25:28    奪過他這一千來，給那有一萬的。
Take therefore the talent from him, and give it unto him which hath ten talents.

25:29    因為凡有的，還要加給他，叫他有餘。沒有的，連他所有的，也要奪過來。
For unto every one that hath shall be given, and he shall have abundance: but from him that hath not shall be taken away even that which he hath.

25:30    把這無用的僕人，丟在外面黑暗裡。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
And cast ye the unprofitable servant into outer darkness: there shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth.

25:31    當人子在他榮耀裡同著眾天使降臨的時候，要坐在他榮耀的寶座上。
When the Son of man shall come in his glory, and all the holy angels with him, then shall he sit upon the throne of his glory:

25:32    萬民都要聚集在他面前。他要把他們分別出來，好像牧羊的分別綿羊山羊一般。
And before him shall be gathered all nations: and he shall separate them one from another, as a shepherd divideth his sheep from the goats:

25:33    把綿羊安置在右邊，山羊在左邊。
And he shall set the sheep on his right hand, but the goats on the left.

25:34    於是王要向那右邊的說，你們這蒙我父賜福的，可來承受那創世以來為你們所預備的國。
Then shall the King say unto them on his right hand, Come, ye blessed of my Father, inherit the kingdom prepared for you from the foundation of the world:

25:35    因為我餓了，你們給我吃。渴了，你們給我喝。我作客旅，你們留我住。
For I was an hungred, and ye gave me meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me drink: I was a stranger, and ye took me in:

25:36    我赤身露體，你們給我穿。我病了，你們看顧我。我在監裡，你們來看我。
Naked, and ye clothed me: I was sick, and ye visited me: I was in prison, and ye came unto me.

25:37    義人就回答說，主阿，我們什麼時候見你餓了給你吃，渴了給你喝。
Then shall the righteous answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, and fed thee? or thirsty, and gave thee drink?

25:38    什麼時候見你作客旅留你住，或是赤身露體給你穿。
When saw we thee a stranger, and took thee in? or naked, and clothed thee?

25:39    又什麼時候見你病了，或是在監裡，來看你呢。
Or when saw we thee sick, or in prison, and came unto thee?

25:40    王要回答說，我實在告訴你們，這些事你們既作在我這弟兄中一個最小的身上，就是作在我身上了。
And the King shall answer and say unto them, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye have done it unto one of the least of these my brethren, ye have done it unto me.

25:41    王又要向那左邊的說，你們這被咒詛的人，離開我，進入那為魔鬼和他的使者所豫備的永火裡去。
Then shall he say also unto them on the left hand, Depart from me, ye cursed, into everlasting fire, prepared for the devil and his angels:

25:42    因為我餓了，你們不給我吃。渴了，你們不給我喝。
For I was an hungred, and ye gave me no meat: I was thirsty, and ye gave me no drink:

25:43    我作客旅，你們不留我住。我赤身露體，你們不給我穿。我病了，我在監裡，你們不來看顧我。
I was a stranger, and ye took me not in: naked, and ye clothed me not: sick, and in prison, and ye visited me not.

25:44    他們也要回答說，主阿，我們什麼時候見你餓了，或渴了，或作客旅，或赤身露體，或病了，或在監裡，不伺候你呢。
Then shall they also answer him, saying, Lord, when saw we thee an hungred, or athirst, or a stranger, or naked, or sick, or in prison, and did not minister unto thee?

25:45    王要回答說，我實在告訴你們，這些事你們既不作在我這弟兄中一個最小的身上，就是不作在我身上了。
Then shall he answer them, saying, Verily I say unto you, Inasmuch as ye did it not to one of the least of these, ye did it not to me.

25:46    這些人要往永刑裡去。那些義人要往永生裡去。
And these shall go away into everlasting punishment: but the righteous into life eternal.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


26:1    耶穌說完了這一切的話，就對門徒說，
And it came to pass, when Jesus had finished all these sayings, he said unto his disciples,

26:2    你們知道過兩天是逾越節，人子將要被交給人，釘在十字架上。
Ye know that after two days is the feast of the passover, and the Son of man is betrayed to be crucified.

26:3    那時，祭司長和民間的長老－聚集在大祭司稱為該亞法的院裡。
Then assembled together the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders of the people, unto the palace of the high priest, who was called Caiaphas,

26:4    大家商議，要用詭計拿住耶穌殺他。
And consulted that they might take Jesus by subtilty, and kill him.

26:5    只是說，當節的日子不可，恐怕民間生亂。
But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar among the people.

26:6    耶穌在伯大尼長大麻瘋的西門家裡，
Now when Jesus was in Bethany, in the house of Simon the leper,

26:7    有一個女人，拿著一玉瓶極貴的香膏來，趁耶穌坐席的時候，澆在他的頭上。
There came unto him a woman having an alabaster box of very precious ointment, and poured it on his head, as he sat at meat.

26:8    門徒看見，就很不喜悅，說，何用這樣的枉費呢。
But when his disciples saw it, they had indignation, saying, To what purpose is this waste?

26:9    這香膏可以賣許多錢，賙濟窮人。
For this ointment might have been sold for much, and given to the poor.

26:10    耶穌看出他們的意思，就說，為什麼難為這女人呢。他在我身上作的，是一件美事。
When Jesus understood it, he said unto them, Why trouble ye the woman? for she hath wrought a good work upon me.

26:11    因為常有窮人你們同在。只是你們不常有我。
For ye have the poor always with you; but me ye have not always.

26:12    他將這香膏澆在我身上，是為我安葬作的。
For in that she hath poured this ointment on my body, she did it for my burial.

26:13    我實在告訴你們，普天之下，無論在什麼地方傳這福音，也要述說這女人所行的，作個記念。
Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached in the whole world, there shall also this, that this woman hath done, be told for a memorial of her.

26:14    當下，十二門徒裡，有一個稱為加略人猶大的，去見祭司長說，
Then one of the twelve, called Judas Iscariot, went unto the chief priests,

26:15    我把他交給你們，你們願意給我多少錢。他們就給了他三十塊錢。
And said unto them, What will ye give me, and I will deliver him unto you? And they covenanted with him for thirty pieces of silver.



26:16    從那時候，他就找機會，要把耶穌交給他們。
And from that time he sought opportunity to betray him.

26:17    除酵節的第一天，門徒來問耶穌說，你吃逾越節的筵席，要我們在那裡給你豫備。
Now the first day of the feast of unleavened bread the disciples came to Jesus, saying unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare for thee to eat the passover?

26:18    耶穌說，你們進城去，到某人那裡，對他說，夫子說，我的時候快到了。我與門徒要在你家守逾越節
And he said, Go into the city to such a man, and say unto him, The Master saith, My time is at hand; I will keep the passover at thy house with my disciples.

26:19    門徒遵著耶穌所吩咐的就去豫備了逾越節的筵席
And the disciples did as Jesus had appointed them; and they made ready the passover.

26:20    到了晚上，耶穌十二個門徒坐席。
Now when the even was come, he sat down with the twelve.

26:21    正吃的時候，耶穌說，我實在告訴你們，你們中間有一個人要賣我了。
And as they did eat, he said, Verily I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.

26:22    他們就甚憂愁，一個一個的問他說，主，是我嗎。
And they were exceeding sorrowful, and began every one of them to say unto him, Lord, is it I?

26:23    耶穌回答說，同我蘸手在盤子裡的，就是他要賣我。
And he answered and said, He that dippeth his hand with me in the dish, the same shall betray me.

26:24    人子必要去世，正如經上指著他所寫的，但賣人子的人有禍了。那人不生在世上倒好。
The Son of man goeth as it is written of him: but woe unto that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! it had been good for that man if he had not been born.

26:25    賣耶穌的猶大問他說，拉比，是我嗎。耶穌說，你說的是。
Then Judas, which betrayed him, answered and said, Master, is it I? He said unto him, Thou hast said.

26:26    他們吃的時候，耶穌拿起餅來，祝福，就擘開，遞給門徒，說，你們拿著吃，這是我的身體。
And as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and blessed it, and brake it, and gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat; this is my body.

26:27    又拿起杯來，祝謝了，遞給他們，說，你們都喝這個。
And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and gave it to them, saying, Drink ye all of it;

26:28    因為這是我立約的血，為多人流出來，使罪得赦。
For this is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many for the remission of sins.

26:29    但我告訴你們，從今以候，我不再喝這葡萄汁，直到我在我父的國裡，同你們喝新的那日子。
But I say unto you, I will not drink henceforth of this fruit of the vine, until that day when I drink it new with you in my Father's kingdom.

26:30    他們唱了詩，就出來往橄欖山去。
And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.

26:31    那時，耶穌對他們說，今夜你們為我的緣故，都要跌倒。因為經上記著說，我要擊打牧人，羊就分散了。
Then saith Jesus unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep of the flock shall be scattered abroad.

26:32    但我復活以後，要在你們以先往加利利去。
But after I am risen again, I will go before you into Galilee.

26:33    彼得說，眾人雖然為你的緣故跌倒，我卻永不跌倒。
Peter answered and said unto him, Though all men shall be offended because of thee, yet will I never be offended.

26:34    耶穌說，我實在告訴你，今夜雞叫以先，你要三次不認我。
Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this night, before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.

26:35    彼得說，我就是必須和你同死，也總不能不認你。眾門徒都是這樣說。
Peter said unto him, Though I should die with thee, yet will I not deny thee. Likewise also said all the disciples.

26:36    耶穌同門徒來到一個地方，名叫客西馬尼，就對他們說，你們坐在這裡，太26：36）等我到那邊去禱告。
Then cometh Jesus with them unto a place called Gethsemane, and saith unto the disciples, Sit ye here, while I go and pray yonder.

26:37    於是帶著彼得，和西庇太的兩個兒子同去，就憂愁起來，極其難過。
And he took with him Peter and the two sons of Zebedee, and began to be sorrowful and very heavy.

26:38    便對他們說，我心裡甚是憂傷，幾乎要死。你們在這裡等候，和我一同儆醒。
Then saith he unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful, even unto death: tarry ye here, and watch with me.

26:39    他就稍往前走，俯伏在地禱告說，我父阿，倘若可行，求你叫這杯離開我。然而不要照我的意思，只要照你的意思。
And he went a little farther, and fell on his face, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if it be possible, let this cup pass from me: nevertheless not as I will, but as thou wilt.

26:40    來到門徒那裡，見他們睡著了，就對彼得說，怎嗎樣，你們不能同我儆醒片時嗎。
And he cometh unto the disciples, and findeth them asleep, and saith unto Peter, What, could ye not watch with me one hour?

26:41    總要儆醒禱告，免得入了迷惑。你們心靈固然願意，肉體卻軟弱了。
Watch and pray, that ye enter not into temptation: the spirit indeed is willing, but the flesh is weak.

26:42    第二次又去禱告說，我父阿，這杯若不能離開我，必要我喝，就願你的旨意成全。
He went away again the second time, and prayed, saying, O my Father, if this cup may not pass away from me, except I drink it, thy will be done.

26:43    又來見他們睡著了，因為他們的眼睛睏倦。
And he came and found them asleep again: for their eyes were heavy.

26:44    耶穌又離開他們去了。第三次禱告，說的話還是與先前一樣。
And he left them, and went away again, and prayed the third time, saying the same words.

26:45    於是來到門徒那裡，對他們說，現在你們仍然睡覺安歇吧。（吧或作嗎）時候到了，人子被賣在罪人手裡了。
Then cometh he to his disciples, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: behold, the hour is at hand, and the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.

26:46    起來，我們走吧。看哪，賣我的人近了。
Rise, let us be going: behold, he is at hand that doth betray me.

26:47    說話之間，那十二個門徒裡的猶大來了，並有許多人，帶著刀棒，從祭司長和民間的長老那裡，與他同來。
And while he yet spake, lo, Judas, one of the twelve, came, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and elders of the people.

26:48    那賣耶穌的，給了他們一個暗號，說，我與誰親嘴，誰就是他。你們可以拿住他。
Now he that betrayed him gave them a sign, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he: hold him fast.

26:49    猶大隨既到耶穌跟前說，請拉比安。就與他親嘴。
And forthwith he came to Jesus, and said, Hail, master; and kissed him.

26:50    耶穌對他說，朋友，你來要作的事，就作吧。於是那些人上前，下手拿住耶穌。
And Jesus said unto him, Friend, wherefore art thou come? Then came they, and laid hands on Jesus, and took him.

26:51    有跟隨耶穌的一個人，伸手拔出刀來，將大祭司的僕人砍了一刀，削掉了他一個耳朵。
And, behold, one of them which were with Jesus stretched out his hand, and drew his sword, and struck a servant of the high priest's, and smote off his ear.

26:52    耶穌對他說，收刀入鞘吧。凡動刀的，必死在刀下。
Then said Jesus unto him, Put up again thy sword into his place: for all they that take the sword shall perish with the sword.

26:53    你想我不能求我父，現在為我差遣十二營多天使來嗎。
Thinkest thou that I cannot now pray to my Father, and he shall presently give me more than twelve legions of angels?

26:54    若是這樣，經上所說，事情必須如此的話，怎嗎應驗呢。
But how then shall the scriptures be fulfilled, that thus it must be?

26:55    當時，耶穌對眾人說，你們帶著刀棒，出來拿我，如同拿強盜嗎。我天天坐在殿裡教訓人，你們並沒有拿我。
In that same hour said Jesus to the multitudes, Are ye come out as against a thief with swords and staves for to take me? I sat daily with you teaching in the temple, and ye laid no hold on me.

26:56    但這一切的事成就了，為要應驗先知書上的話。當下門徒都離開他逃走了。
But all this was done, that the scriptures of the prophets might be fulfilled. Then all the disciples forsook him, and fled.

26:57    拿耶穌的人，把他帶到大祭司該亞法那裡去。文士和長老，已經在那裡聚會。
And they that had laid hold on Jesus led him away to Caiaphas the high priest, where the scribes and the elders were assembled.

26:58    彼得遠遠的跟著耶穌，直到大祭司的院子，進到裡面，就和差役同坐，要看這事到底怎樣。
But Peter followed him afar off unto the high priest's palace, and went in, and sat with the servants, to see the end.

26:59    祭司長和全公會，尋梢假見證，控告耶穌，要治死他。
Now the chief priests, and elders, and all the council, sought false witness against Jesus, to put him to death;

26:60    雖有好些人來作假見證，總得不著實據。末後有兩個人前來說，
But found none: yea, though many false witnesses came, yet found they none. At the last came two false witnesses,

26:61    這個人曾說，我能拆毀神的殿，三日內又建造起來。
And said, This fellow said, I am able to destroy the temple of God, and to build it in three days.

26:62    大祭司就站起來，對耶穌說，你什麼都不回答嗎。這些人作見證告你的是什麼呢。
And the high priest arose, and said unto him, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee?

26:63    耶穌卻不言語。大祭司對他說，我指著永生神，叫你起誓告訴我們，你是神的兒子基督不是。
But Jesus held his peace. And the high priest answered and said unto him, I adjure thee by the living God, that thou tell us whether thou be the Christ, the Son of God.

26:64    耶穌對他說，你說的是。然而我告訴你們，後來你們要看見人子，坐在那權能者的右邊，駕著天上的雲降臨。
Jesus saith unto him, Thou hast said: nevertheless I say unto you, Hereafter shall ye see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.

26:65    大祭司就撕開衣服說，他說了僭妄的話，我們何必再用見證人呢。這僭妄的話，現在你們都聽見了。
Then the high priest rent his clothes, saying, He hath spoken blasphemy; what further need have we of witnesses? behold, now ye have heard his blasphemy.

26:66    你們的意見如何。他們回答說，他是該死的。
What think ye? They answered and said, He is guilty of death.

26:67    他們就吐唾沫在他臉上，用拳頭打他。也有用手掌打他的，說，
Then did they spit in his face, and buffeted him; and others smote him with the palms of their hands,

26:68    基督阿，你是先知，告訴我們打你的是誰。
Saying, Prophesy unto us, thou Christ, Who is he that smote thee?

26:69    彼得在外面院子裡坐著，有一個使女前來說，你素來也是同那加利利人耶穌一夥的。
Now Peter sat without in the palace: and a damsel came unto him, saying, Thou also wast with Jesus of Galilee.

26:70    彼得在眾人面前卻不承認，說，我不知道你說的是什麼。
But he denied before them all, saying, I know not what thou sayest.

26:71    既出去，到了門口，又有一個使女看見他，就對那裡的人說，這個人也是同拿撒勒人耶穌一夥的。
And when he was gone out into the porch, another maid saw him, and said unto them that were there, This fellow was also with Jesus of Nazareth.

26:72    彼得又不承認，並且起誓說，我不認得那個人。
And again he denied with an oath, I do not know the man.

26:73    過了不多的時候，旁邊站著的人前來，對彼得說，你真是他們一黨的。你的口音把你露出來了。
And after a while came unto him they that stood by, and said to Peter, Surely thou also art one of them; for thy speech bewrayeth thee.

26:74    彼得發咒起誓的說，我不認得那個人。立時雞就叫了。
Then began he to curse and to swear, saying, I know not the man. And immediately the cock crew.

26:75    彼得想起耶穌所說的話，雞叫以先，你要三次不認我。他就出去痛哭。
And Peter remembered the word of Jesus, which said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice. And he went out, and wept bitterly.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


27:1    到了早晨，眾祭司長和民間的長老，大家商議，要治死耶穌。
When the morning was come, all the chief priests and elders of the people took counsel against Jesus to put him to death:

27:2    就把他捆綁解去交給巡撫彼拉多。
And when they had bound him, they led him away, and delivered him to Pontius Pilate the governor.

27:3    這時候，賣耶穌的猶大，看見耶穌已經定了罪，就後悔，把那三十塊錢，拿回來給祭司長和長老說，
Then Judas, which had betrayed him, when he saw that he was condemned, repented himself, and brought again the thirty pieces of silver to the chief priests and elders,

27:4    我賣了無辜之人的血，是有罪了。他們說，他們說，那與我們有什麼相干。你自己承當吧。
Saying, I have sinned in that I have betrayed the innocent blood. And they said, What is that to us? see thou to that.

27:5    猶大就把那銀錢丟在殿裡，出去吊死了。
And he cast down the pieces of silver in the temple, and departed, and went and hanged himself.

27:6    祭司長拾起銀錢來說，這是血價，不可放在庫裡。
And the chief priests took the silver pieces, and said, It is not lawful for to put them into the treasury, because it is the price of blood.

27:7    他們商議，就用那銀錢買了窯戶的一塊田，為要埋葬外鄉人。
And they took counsel, and bought with them the potter's field, to bury strangers in.

27:8    所以那塊田，直到今日還叫作血田。
Wherefore that field was called, The field of blood, unto this day.

27:9    這就應了先知耶利米的話，說，他們用那三十塊錢，就是被估定之人的價錢，是以色列人中所估定的，
Then was fulfilled that which was spoken by Jeremy the prophet, saying, And they took the thirty pieces of silver, the price of him that was valued, whom they of the children of Israel did value;

27:10    買了窯戶的一塊田。這是照著主所吩咐我的。
And gave them for the potter's field, as the Lord appointed me.

27:11    耶穌站在巡撫面前，巡撫問他說，你是猶太人的王嗎。耶穌說，你說的是。
And Jesus stood before the governor: and the governor asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And Jesus said unto him, Thou sayest.

27:12    他被祭司長和長老控告的時候什麼都不回答。
And when he was accused of the chief priests and elders, he answered nothing.

27:13    彼拉多就對他說，他們作見證，告你這嗎多的事，你沒有聽見嗎。
Then said Pilate unto him, Hearest thou not how many things they witness against thee?

27:14    耶穌仍不回答，連一句話也不說，以致巡撫甚覺希奇。
And he answered him to never a word; insomuch that the governor marvelled greatly.

27:15    巡撫有一個常例，每逢這節期，隨眾人所要的，釋放一個囚犯給他們。
Now at that feast the governor was wont to release unto the people a prisoner, whom they would.

27:16    當時，有一個出名的囚犯叫巴拉巴。
And they had then a notable prisoner, called Barabbas.

27:17    眾人聚集的時候，彼拉多就對他們說，你們要我釋放那一個給你們。是巴拉巴呢。是稱為基督的耶穌呢。
Therefore when they were gathered together, Pilate said unto them, Whom will ye that I release unto you? Barabbas, or Jesus which is called Christ?

27:18    巡撫原知道，他們是因為嫉妒才把他解了來。
For he knew that for envy they had delivered him.

27:19    正坐堂的時候，他的夫人打發人來說，這義人的事，你一點不可管。因為我今天在夢中，為他受了許多的苦。
When he was set down on the judgment seat, his wife sent unto him, saying, Have thou nothing to do with that just man: for I have suffered many things this day in a dream because of him.

27:20    祭司長和長老，挑唆眾人，求釋放巴拉巴，除滅耶穌。
But the chief priests and elders persuaded the multitude that they should ask Barabbas, and destroy Jesus.

27:21    巡撫對眾人說，這兩個人，你們要我釋放那一個給你們呢。他們說，巴拉巴。
The governor answered and said unto them, Whether of the twain will ye that I release unto you? They said, Barabbas.

27:22    彼拉多說，這樣，那稱為基督的耶穌，我怎嗎辦他呢。他們說，把他釘十字架。
Pilate saith unto them, What shall I do then with Jesus which is called Christ? They all say unto him, Let him be crucified.

27:23    巡撫說，為什麼呢，他作了什麼惡事呢。他們便極力的喊著說，把他釘十字架。
And the governor said, Why, what evil hath he done? But they cried out the more, saying, Let him be crucified.

27:24    彼拉多見說也無濟於事，反要生亂，就拿水在眾人面前洗手，說，流這義人的血，罪不在我，你們承當吧。
When Pilate saw that he could prevail nothing, but that rather a tumult was made, he took water, and washed his hands before the multitude, saying, I am innocent of the blood of this just person: see ye to it.

27:25    眾人都回答說，他的血歸到我們，和我們的子孫身上。
Then answered all the people, and said, His blood be on us, and on our children.

27:26    於是彼拉多釋放巴拉巴給他們，把耶穌鞭打了，交給人釘十字架。
Then released he Barabbas unto them: and when he had scourged Jesus, he delivered him to be crucified.

27:27    巡撫的兵就把耶穌帶進衙門，叫全營的兵都聚集在他那裡。
Then the soldiers of the governor took Jesus into the common hall, and gathered unto him the whole band of soldiers.

27:28    他們給他脫了衣服，穿上一件硃紅色袍子。
And they stripped him, and put on him a scarlet robe.

27:29    用荊棘編作冠冕，戴在他頭上，拿一根葦子放在他右手裡。跪在他面前戲弄他說，恭喜猶太人的王阿。
And when they had platted a crown of thorns, they put it upon his head, and a reed in his right hand: and they bowed the knee before him, and mocked him, saying, Hail, King of the Jews!

27:30    又吐唾沫在他臉上，拿葦子打他的頭。
And they spit upon him, and took the reed, and smote him on the head.

27:31    戲弄完了，就給他脫了袍子，仍穿上他自己的衣服，帶他出去，要釘十字架。
And after that they had mocked him, they took the robe off from him, and put his own raiment on him, and led him away to crucify him.

27:32    他們出來的時候，遇見一個古利奈人，名叫西門，就勉強他同去，好揹著耶穌的十字架。
And as they came out, they found a man of Cyrene, Simon by name: him they compelled to bear his cross.

27:33    到了一個地方，名叫各各他，意思就是髑髏地。
And when they were come unto a place called Golgotha, that is to say, a place of a skull,

27:34    兵丁拿苦膽調和的酒，給耶穌喝。他嚐了，就不肯喝。
They gave him vinegar to drink mingled with gall: and when he had tasted thereof, he would not drink.

27:35    他們既將他釘在十字架上，就拈鬮分他的衣服。
And they crucified him, and parted his garments, casting lots: that it might be fulfilled which was spoken by the prophet, They parted my garments among them, and upon my vesture did they cast lots.

27:36    又坐在那裡看守他。
And sitting down they watched him there;

27:37    在他頭以上，安一個牌子，寫著他的罪狀，說，這是猶太人的王耶穌。
And set up over his head his accusation written, THIS IS JESUS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

27:38    當時，有兩個強盜，和他同釘十字架，一個在右邊，一個在左邊。
Then were there two thieves crucified with him, one on the right hand, and another on the left.

27:39    從那裡經過的人，譏誚他，搖著頭說，
And they that passed by reviled him, wagging their heads,

27:40    你這拆毀聖殿，三日又建造起來的，可以救自己吧。你如果是神的兒子，就從十字架上下來吧。
And saying, Thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days, save thyself. If thou be the Son of God, come down from the cross.

27:41    祭司長和文士並長老，也是這樣戲弄他，說，
Likewise also the chief priests mocking him, with the scribes and elders, said,

27:42    他救了別人，不能救自己。他是以色列的王，現在可以從十字架上下來，我們就信他。
He saved others; himself he cannot save. If he be the King of Israel, let him now come down from the cross, and we will believe him.

27:43    他倚靠神，神若喜悅他，現在可以救他。因為他曾說，我是神的兒子。
He trusted in God; let him deliver him now, if he will have him: for he said, I am the Son of God.

27:44    那和他同釘的強盜，也是這樣的譏誚他。
The thieves also, which were crucified with him, cast the same in his teeth.

27:45    從午正到申初，遍地都黑暗了。
Now from the sixth hour there was darkness over all the land unto the ninth hour.

27:46    約在申初，耶穌大聲喊著說，以利，以利，拉馬撒巴各大尼。就是說，我的神，我的神，為什麼離棄我。
And about the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eli, Eli, lama sabachthani? that is to say, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?

27:47    站在那裡的人，有的聽見就說，這個人呼叫以利亞呢。
Some of them that stood there, when they heard that, said, This man calleth for Elias.

27:48    內中有一個人，趕緊跑去，拿海絨蘸滿了醋，綁在葦子上，送給他喝。
And straightway one of them ran, and took a spunge, and filled it with vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink.

27:49    其餘的人說，且等著，看以利亞來救他不來。
The rest said, Let be, let us see whether Elias will come to save him.

27:50    耶穌又大聲喊叫，氣就斷了。
Jesus, when he had cried again with a loud voice, yielded up the ghost.

27:51    忽然殿裡的幔子，從上到下裂為兩半。地也震動。盤石也崩裂。
And, behold, the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom; and the earth did quake, and the rocks rent;

27:52    墳墓也開了。已睡聖徒的身體，多有起來的。
And the graves were opened; and many bodies of the saints which slept arose,

27:53    到耶穌復活以後，他們從墳墓裡出來，進了聖城，向許多人顯現。
And came out of the graves after his resurrection, and went into the holy city, and appeared unto many.

27:54    百夫長和一同看守耶穌的人，看見地震，並所經歷的事，就極其害怕，說，這真是神的兒子了。
Now when the centurion, and they that were with him, watching Jesus, saw the earthquake, and those things that were done, they feared greatly, saying, Truly this was the Son of God.

27:55    有好些婦女在那裡遠遠的觀看。他們是從加利利跟隨耶穌來服事他的。
And many women were there beholding afar off, which followed Jesus from Galilee, ministering unto him:

27:56    內中有抹大拉的馬利亞，又有雅各和約西的母親馬利亞，並有西庇太兩個兒子的母親。
Among which was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James and Joses, and the mother of Zebedee's children.

27:57    到了晚上，有一個財主，名叫約瑟，是亞利馬太來的。他也是耶穌的門徒。
When the even was come, there came a rich man of Arimathaea, named Joseph, who also himself was Jesus' disciple:

27:58    這人去見彼拉多，求耶穌的身體。彼拉多就吩咐給他。
He went to Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus. Then Pilate commanded the body to be delivered.

27:59    約瑟取了身體，用乾淨細麻布裹好，
And when Joseph had taken the body, he wrapped it in a clean linen cloth,

27:60    安放在自己的新墳墓裡，就是他鑿在盤石裡的。他又把大石頭輥到墓口，就去了。
And laid it in his own new tomb, which he had hewn out in the rock: and he rolled a great stone to the door of the sepulchre, and departed.

27:61    有抹大拉的馬利亞，和那個馬利亞在那裡，對著墳墓坐著。
And there was Mary Magdalene, and the other Mary, sitting over against the sepulchre.

27:62    次日，就是豫備日的第二天，祭司長和法利賽人聚集，來見彼拉多，說，
Now the next day, that followed the day of the preparation, the chief priests and Pharisees came together unto Pilate,

27:63    大人，我們記得那誘惑人的，還活著的時候，曾說，三日後我要復活。
Saying, Sir, we remember that that deceiver said, while he was yet alive, After three days I will rise again.

27:64    因此，請吩咐人將墳墓把守妥當，直到第三日。恐怕他的門徒來把他偷了去，就告訴百姓說，他從死裡復活了。這樣，那後來的迷惑，比先前的更利害了。
Command therefore that the sepulchre be made sure until the third day, lest his disciples come by night, and steal him away, and say unto the people, He is risen from the dead: so the last error shall be worse than the first.

27:65    彼拉多說，你們有看守的兵。去吧，盡你們所能的，把守妥當。
Pilate said unto them, Ye have a watch: go your way, make it as sure as ye can.

27:66    他們就帶著看守的兵同去，封了石頭，將墳墓把守妥當。
So they went, and made the sepulchre sure, sealing the stone, and setting a watch.




新約 -- 馬太福音(Matthew) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　


28:1    安息日將盡，七日的頭一日，天快亮的時候，抹大拉的馬利亞，和那個馬利亞，來看墳墓。
In the end of the sabbath, as it began to dawn toward the first day of the week, came Mary Magdalene and the other Mary to see the sepulchre.

28:2    忽然地大震動。因為有主的使者，從天上下來，把石頭輥開，坐在上面。
And, behold, there was a great earthquake: for the angel of the Lord descended from heaven, and came and rolled back the stone from the door, and sat upon it.

28:3    他的像貌如同閃電，衣服潔白如雪。
His countenance was like lightning, and his raiment white as snow:

28:4    看守的人，就因他嚇得渾身亂戰，甚至和死人一樣。
And for fear of him the keepers did shake, and became as dead men.

28:5    天使對婦女說，不要害怕，我知道你們是尋梢那釘十字架的耶穌。
And the angel answered and said unto the women, Fear not ye: for I know that ye seek Jesus, which was crucified.

28:6    他不在這裡，照他所說的，已經復活了。你們來看安放主的地方。
He is not here: for he is risen, as he said. Come, see the place where the Lord lay.

28:7    *
And go quickly, and tell his disciples that he is risen from the dead; and, behold, he goeth before you into Galilee; there shall ye see him: lo, I have told you.

28:8    婦女們就急忙離開墳墓，又害怕，又大大的歡喜，跑去要報給他的門徒。
And they departed quickly from the sepulchre with fear and great joy; and did run to bring his disciples word.

28:9    忽然耶穌遇見他們，說，願你們平安。他們就上前抱住他的腳拜他。
And as they went to tell his disciples, behold, Jesus met them, saying, All hail. And they came and held him by the feet, and worshipped him.

28:10    耶穌對他們說，不要害怕，你們去告訴我的弟兄，叫他們往加利利去，在那裡必見我。
Then said Jesus unto them, Be not afraid: go tell my brethren that they go into Galilee, and there shall they see me.

28:11    他們去的時候，看守的兵，有幾個進城去，將所經歷的事，都報給祭司長。
Now when they were going, behold, some of the watch came into the city, and shewed unto the chief priests all the things that were done.

28:12    祭司長和長老聚集商議，就拿許多銀錢給兵丁說，
And when they were assembled with the elders, and had taken counsel, they gave large money unto the soldiers,

28:13    你們要這樣說，夜間我們睡覺的時候，他的門徒來把他偷去了。
Saying, Say ye, His disciples came by night, and stole him away while we slept.

28:14    倘若這話被巡撫聽見，有我們勸他，保你們無事。
And if this come to the governor's ears, we will persuade him, and secure you.

28:15    兵丁受了銀錢，就照所囑咐他們的去行。這話就傳說在猶太人中間，直到今日。
So they took the money, and did as they were taught: and this saying is commonly reported among the Jews until this day.

28:16    十一個門徒往加利利去，到了耶穌約定的山上。
Then the eleven disciples went away into Galilee, into a mountain where Jesus had appointed them.

28:17    他們見了耶穌就拜他。然而還有人疑惑。
And when they saw him, they worshipped him: but some doubted.

28:18    耶穌進前來，對他們說，天上，地下所有的權柄，都賜給我了。
And Jesus came and spake unto them, saying, All power is given unto me in heaven and in earth.

28:19    所以你們要去，使萬民作我的門徒，奉父子聖靈的名，給他們施洗。（或作給他們施洗歸於父子聖靈的名）
Go ye therefore, and teach all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Ghost:

28:20    凡我所吩咐你們的，都教訓他們遵守，我就常與你們同在，直到世界的末了。
Teaching them to observe all things whatsoever I have commanded you: and, lo, I am with you alway, even unto the end of the world. Amen.


