
新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　


1:1    神的兒子，耶穌基督福音的起頭，
The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God;

1:2    正如先知以賽亞書上記著說，（有古卷無以賽亞三字）看哪，我要差遣我的使者在你面前，豫備道路。
As it is written in the prophets, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.

1:3    在曠野有人聲喊著說，豫備主的道，修直他的路。
The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.

1:4    照這話，約翰來了，在曠野施洗，傳悔改的洗禮，使罪得赦。
John did baptize in the wilderness, and preach the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins.

1:5    猶太全地，和耶路撒冷的人，都出去到約翰那裡，承認他們的罪，在約旦河裡受他的洗。
And there went out unto him all the land of Judaea, and they of Jerusalem, and were all baptized of him in the river of Jordan, confessing their sins.

1:6    約翰穿駱駝毛的衣服，腰束皮帶，吃的是蝗蟲野蜜。
And John was clothed with camel's hair, and with a girdle of a skin about his loins; and he did eat locusts and wild honey;

1:7    他傳道說，有一位在我以後來的，能力比我更大，我就是彎腰給他解鞋帶，也是不配的。
And preached, saying, There cometh one mightier than I after me, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to stoop down and unloose.

1:8    我是用水給你們施洗，他卻要用聖靈給你們施洗。
I indeed have baptized you with water: but he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost.

1:9    那時，耶穌從加利利的拿撒勒來，在約旦河裡受了約翰的洗。
And it came to pass in those days, that Jesus came from Nazareth of Galilee, and was baptized of John in Jordan.

1:10    他從水裡一上來，就看見天裂開了，聖靈彷佛鴿子，降在他身上。
And straightway coming up out of the water, he saw the heavens opened, and the Spirit like a dove descending upon him:

1:11    又有聲音從天上來說，你是我的愛子，我喜悅你。
And there came a voice from heaven, saying, Thou art my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.

1:12    聖靈就把耶穌催到曠野裡去。
And immediately the Spirit driveth him into the wilderness.



1:13    他在曠野四十天受撒但的試探。並與野獸同在一處。且有天使來伺候他。
And he was there in the wilderness forty days, tempted of Satan; and was with the wild beasts; and the angels ministered unto him.

1:14    約翰下監以後，耶穌來到加利利，宣傳神的福音，
Now after that John was put in prison, Jesus came into Galilee, preaching the gospel of the kingdom of God,

1:15    說，日期滿了，神的國近了。你們當悔改，信福音。
And saying, The time is fulfilled, and the kingdom of God is at hand: repent ye, and believe the gospel.

1:16    耶穌順著加利利的海邊走，看見西門，和西門的兄弟安得烈，在海邊撒網。他們本是打魚的。
Now as he walked by the sea of Galilee, he saw Simon and Andrew his brother casting a net into the sea: for they were fishers.

1:17    耶穌對他們說，來跟從我，我要叫你們得人如得魚一樣。
And Jesus said unto them, Come ye after me, and I will make you to become fishers of men.

1:18    他們就立刻舍了網，跟從了他。
And straightway they forsook their nets, and followed him.

1:19    耶穌稍往前走，又見西庇太的兒子雅各，和雅各的兄弟約翰，在船上補網。
And when he had gone a little farther thence, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who also were in the ship mending their nets.

1:20    耶穌隨既招呼他們。他們就把父親西庇太，和僱工人留在船上，跟從耶穌去了。
And straightway he called them: and they left their father Zebedee in the ship with the hired servants, and went after him.

1:21    到了迦百農，耶穌就在安息日進了會堂教訓人。
And they went into Capernaum; and straightway on the sabbath day he entered into the synagogue, and taught.

1:22    眾人很希奇他的教訓。因為他教訓他們，正像有權柄的人，不像文士。
And they were astonished at his doctrine: for he taught them as one that had authority, and not as the scribes.

1:23    在會堂裡有一個人，被汙鬼附著。他喊叫說，
And there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit; and he cried out,

1:24    拿撒勒人耶穌，我們與你有什麼相干，你來滅我們嗎。我知道你是誰，乃是神的聖者。
Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art, the Holy One of God.

1:25    耶穌責備他說，不要作聲，從這人身上出來吧。
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him.

1:26    汙鬼叫那人抽了一陣瘋，大聲喊叫，就出來了。
And when the unclean spirit had torn him, and cried with a loud voice, he came out of him.

1:27    眾人都驚訝，以致彼此對問說，這是什麼事，是個新道理阿。他用權柄吩咐汙鬼，連汙鬼也聽從了他。
And they were all amazed, insomuch that they questioned among themselves, saying, What thing is this? what new doctrine is this? for with authority commandeth he even the unclean spirits, and they do obey him.

1:28    耶穌的名聲，就傳遍了加利利的四方。
And immediately his fame spread abroad throughout all the region round about Galilee.

1:29    他們一出會堂，就同著雅各約翰，進了西門和安得烈的家。
And forthwith, when they were come out of the synagogue, they entered into the house of Simon and Andrew, with James and John.

1:30    西門的岳母，正害熱病躺著。就有人告訴耶穌。
But Simon's wife's mother lay sick of a fever, and anon they tell him of her.

1:31    耶穌進前拉著他的手，扶他起來，熱就退了，他就服事他們。
And he came and took her by the hand, and lifted her up; and immediately the fever left her, and she ministered unto them.

1:32    天晚日落的時候，有人帶著一切害病的，和被鬼附的，來到耶穌跟前。
And at even, when the sun did set, they brought unto him all that were diseased, and them that were possessed with devils.

1:33    合城的人都聚集在門前。
And all the city was gathered together at the door.

1:34    耶穌治好了許多害各樣病的人，又趕出許多鬼，不許鬼說話，因為鬼認識他。
And he healed many that were sick of divers diseases, and cast out many devils; and suffered not the devils to speak, because they knew him.

1:35    次日早晨，天未亮的時候，耶穌起來，到曠野地方去，在那裡禱告。
And in the morning, rising up a great while before day, he went out, and departed into a solitary place, and there prayed.

1:36    西門和同伴追了他去。
And Simon and they that were with him followed after him.

1:37    遇見了就對他說，眾人都找你。
And when they had found him, they said unto him, All men seek for thee.

1:38    耶穌對他們說，我們可以往別處去，到鄰近的鄉村，我也好在那裡傳道。因為我是為這事出來的。
And he said unto them, Let us go into the next towns, that I may preach there also: for therefore came I forth.

1:39    於是在加利利全地，進了會堂，傳道趕鬼。
And he preached in their synagogues throughout all Galilee, and cast out devils.

1:40    有一個長大麻瘋的，來求耶穌，向他跪下說，你若肯，必能叫我潔淨了。
And there came a leper to him, beseeching him, and kneeling down to him, and saying unto him, If thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

1:41    耶穌動了慈心，就伸手摸他，說，我肯，你潔淨了吧。
And Jesus, moved with compassion, put forth his hand, and touched him, and saith unto him, I will; be thou clean.

1:42    大麻瘋既時離開他，他就潔淨了。
And as soon as he had spoken, immediately the leprosy departed from him, and he was cleansed.

1:43    耶穌嚴嚴的囑咐他，就打發他走，
And he straitly charged him, and forthwith sent him away;

1:44    對他說，你要謹慎，什麼話都不可告訴人。只要去把身體給祭司察看，又因為你潔淨了，獻上摩西所吩咐的禮物，對眾人作證據。
And saith unto him, See thou say nothing to any man: but go thy way, shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing those things which Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.

1:45    那人出去，倒說許多的話，把這件事傳揚開了，叫耶穌以後不得再明明的進城，只好在外邊曠野地方。人從各處都就了他來。
But he went out, and began to publish it much, and to blaze abroad the matter, insomuch that Jesus could no more openly enter into the city, but was without in desert places: and they came to him from every quarter.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


2:1    過了些日子，耶穌又進了迦百農。人聽見他在房子裡，
And again he entered into Capernaum after some days; and it was noised that he was in the house.

2:2    就有許多人聚集，甚至連進門前都沒有空地，耶穌就對他們講道。
And straightway many were gathered together, insomuch that there was no room to receive them, no, not so much as about the door: and he preached the word unto them.

2:3    有人帶著一個癱子來見耶穌，是用四個人抬來的。
And they come unto him, bringing one sick of the palsy, which was borne of four.

2:4    因為人多，不得進前，就把耶穌所在的房子，拆了房頂，既拆通了，就把癱子連所躺臥的褥子都縋下來。
And when they could not come nigh unto him for the press, they uncovered the roof where he was: and when they had broken it up, they let down the bed wherein the sick of the palsy lay.

2:5    耶穌見他們的信心，就對癱子說，小子，你的罪赦了。
When Jesus saw their faith, he said unto the sick of the palsy, Son, thy sins be forgiven thee.

2:6    有幾個文士坐在那裡，心裡議論說，
But there were certain of the scribes sitting there, and reasoning in their hearts,

2:7    這個人為什麼這樣說呢。他說僭妄的話了。除了神以外，誰能赦罪呢。
Why doth this man thus speak blasphemies? who can forgive sins but God only?

2:8    耶穌心中知道他們的心裡這樣議論，就說，你們心裡為什麼這樣議論呢。
And immediately when Jesus perceived in his spirit that they so reasoned within themselves, he said unto them, Why reason ye these things in your hearts?

2:9    或對癱子說，你的罪赦了，或說，起來拿你的褥子行走，那一樣容易呢。
Whether is it easier to say to the sick of the palsy, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Arise, and take up thy bed, and walk?

2:10    但要叫你們知道人子在地上有赦罪的權柄，就對癱子說，
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power on earth to forgive sins, (he saith to the sick of the palsy,)

2:11    我吩咐你起來，拿你的褥子回家去吧。
I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy bed, and go thy way into thine house.

2:12    那人就起來，立刻拿著褥子，當眾人面前出去了。以致眾人都驚奇，歸榮耀與神說，我們從來沒有見過這樣的事。
And immediately he arose, took up the bed, and went forth before them all; insomuch that they were all amazed, and glorified God, saying, We never saw it on this fashion.

2:13    耶穌又出到海邊去，眾人都就了他來，他便教訓他們。
And he went forth again by the sea side; and all the multitude resorted unto him, and he taught them.

2:14    耶穌經過的時候，看見亞勒腓的兒子利未，坐在稅關上，就對他說，你跟從我來。他就起來跟從了耶穌。
And as he passed by, he saw Levi the son of Alphaeus sitting at the receipt of custom, and said unto him, Follow me. And he arose and followed him.

2:15    耶穌在利未家裡坐席的時候，有好些稅吏和罪人，與耶穌並門徒一同坐席。因為這樣的人多，他們也跟隨耶穌。
And it came to pass, that, as Jesus sat at meat in his house, many publicans and sinners sat also together with Jesus and his disciples: for there were many, and they followed him.

2:16    法利賽人中的文士，（有古卷作文士和法利賽人）看見耶穌和罪人並稅吏一同吃飯，就對他的門徒說，他和稅吏並罪人一同吃喝嗎。
And when the scribes and Pharisees saw him eat with publicans and sinners, they said unto his disciples, How is it that he eateth and drinketh with publicans and sinners?

2:17    耶穌聽見，就對他們說，健康的人用不著醫生，有病的人才用得著。我來本不是召義人，乃是召罪人。
When Jesus heard it, he saith unto them, They that are whole have no need of the physician, but they that are sick: I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

2:18    當下，約翰的門徒和法利賽人禁食。他們來問耶穌說，約翰的門徒和法利賽人的門徒禁食，你的門徒倒不禁食，這是為什麼呢。
And the disciples of John and of the Pharisees used to fast: and they come and say unto him, Why do the disciples of John and of the Pharisees fast, but thy disciples fast not?

2:19    耶穌對他們說，新郎和陪伴之人同在的時候，倍伴之人豈能禁食呢。新郎還同在，他們不能禁食。
And Jesus said unto them, Can the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them? as long as they have the bridegroom with them, they cannot fast.

2:20    但日子將到，新郎要離開他們，那日他們就要禁食。
But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.

2:21    沒有人把新布縫在舊衣服上。恐怕所補上的新布，帶壞了舊衣服，破的就更大了。
No man also seweth a piece of new cloth on an old garment: else the new piece that filled it up taketh away from the old, and the rent is made worse.

2:22    也每有人把新酒裝在舊皮帶裡。恐怕把皮袋裂開，酒和皮袋就都壞了。惟把新酒裝在新皮袋裡。
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles: else the new wine doth burst the bottles, and the wine is spilled, and the bottles will be marred: but new wine must be put into new bottles.

2:23    耶穌當安息日，從麥地經過。他的門徒行路的時候，掐了麥穗。
And it came to pass, that he went through the corn fields on the sabbath day; and his disciples began, as they went, to pluck the ears of corn.

2:24    法利賽人對耶穌說，看哪，他們在安息日為什麼作不可作的事呢。
And the Pharisees said unto him, Behold, why do they on the sabbath day that which is not lawful?

2:25    耶穌對他們說，經上記著大衛和跟從他的人，缺乏肌餓之時所作的事，你們沒有念過嗎。
And he said unto them, Have ye never read what David did, when he had need, and was an hungred, he, and they that were with him?

2:26    他當亞比亞他作大祭司的時候，怎樣進了神的殿，吃了陳設餅，又給跟從他的人吃。這餅除了祭司以外，人都不可吃。
How he went into the house of God in the days of Abiathar the high priest, and did eat the shewbread, which is not lawful to eat but for the priests, and gave also to them which were with him?

2:27    又對他們說，安息日是為人設立的，人不是為安息日設立的。
And he said unto them, The sabbath was made for man, and not man for the sabbath:

2:28    所以人子也是安息日的主
Therefore the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


3:1    耶穌又進了會堂。在那裡有一個人枯乾了一隻手。
And he entered again into the synagogue; and there was a man there which had a withered hand.

3:2    眾人窺探耶穌，在安息日醫治不醫治，意思是要控告耶穌。
And they watched him, whether he would heal him on the sabbath day; that they might accuse him.

3:3    耶穌對那枯乾一隻手的人說，起來，站在當中。
And he saith unto the man which had the withered hand, Stand forth.

3:4    又問眾人說，在安息日行善行惡，救命害命，那樣是可以的呢。他們都不作聲。
And he saith unto them, Is it lawful to do good on the sabbath days, or to do evil? to save life, or to kill? But they held their peace.

3:5    耶穌怒目周圍看他們，憂愁他們的心剛硬，就對那人說，伸出手來。他把手一伸，手就復了原。
And when he had looked round about on them with anger, being grieved for the hardness of their hearts, he saith unto the man, Stretch forth thine hand. And he stretched it out: and his hand was restored whole as the other.

3:6    法利賽人出去，同希律一黨的人商議，怎樣可以除滅耶穌。
And the Pharisees went forth, and straightway took counsel with the Herodians against him, how they might destroy him.

3:7    耶穌和門徒退到海邊去。有許多人從加利利跟隨他。
But Jesus withdrew himself with his disciples to the sea: and a great multitude from Galilee followed him, and from Judaea,

3:8    還有許多人聽見他所作的大事，就從猶太，耶路撒冷，以土買，約旦河外，並推羅西頓的四方，來到他那裡。
And from Jerusalem, and from Idumaea, and from beyond Jordan; and they about Tyre and Sidon, a great multitude, when they had heard what great things he did, came unto him.

3:9    他因為人多，就吩咐門徒叫一隻小船伺候著，免得眾人擁擠他。
And he spake to his disciples, that a small ship should wait on him because of the multitude, lest they should throng him.

3:10    他治好了許多人，所以凡有災病的，都擠進來要摸他。
For he had healed many; insomuch that they pressed upon him for to touch him, as many as had plagues.

3:11    汙鬼無論何時看見他就俯伏在他面前喊著說，你是神的兒子。
And unclean spirits, when they saw him, fell down before him, and cried, saying, Thou art the Son of God.

3:12    耶穌再三的囑咐他們，不要把他顯露出來。
And he straitly charged them that they should not make him known.

3:13    耶穌上了山，隨自己的意思叫人來，他們便來到他那裡。
And he goeth up into a mountain, and calleth unto him whom he would: and they came unto him.

3:14    他設立十二個人，要他們常和自己同在，也要差他們去傳道，
And he ordained twelve, that they should be with him, and that he might send them forth to preach,

3:15    並給他們權柄趕鬼。
And to have power to heal sicknesses, and to cast out devils:

3:16    這十二個人有西門，耶穌又給他起名叫彼得。
And Simon he surnamed Peter;

3:17    還有西庇太的兒子雅各，和雅各的兄弟約翰。又給這兩個人起名叫半尼其，就是雷子的意思。
And James the son of Zebedee, and John the brother of James; and he surnamed them Boanerges, which is, The sons of thunder:

3:18    又有安得烈，腓力，巴多羅買，馬太，多馬，亞勒腓的兒子雅各，和達太，並奮銳黨的西門。
And Andrew, and Philip, and Bartholomew, and Matthew, and Thomas, and James the son of Alphaeus, and Thaddaeus, and Simon the Canaanite,

3:19    還有賣耶穌的加略人猶大。
And Judas Iscariot, which also betrayed him: and they went into an house.

3:20    耶穌進了一個屋子，眾人又聚集，甚至他連吃飯也顧不得吃。
And the multitude cometh together again, so that they could not so much as eat bread.

3:21    耶穌的親屬聽見，就出來要拉住他，因為他們說他癲狂了。
And when his friends heard of it, they went out to lay hold on him: for they said, He is beside himself.

3:22    從耶路撒冷下來的文士說，他是被別西卜附著。又說，他是靠著鬼王趕鬼。
And the scribes which came down from Jerusalem said, He hath Beelzebub, and by the prince of the devils casteth he out devils.

3:23    耶穌叫他們來，用比喻對他們說，撒但怎能趕出撒但呢。
And he called them unto him, and said unto them in parables, How can Satan cast out Satan?

3:24    若一國自相分爭，那國就站立不住。
And if a kingdom be divided against itself, that kingdom cannot stand.

3:25    若一家自相分爭，那家就站立不住。
And if a house be divided against itself, that house cannot stand.



3:26    若撒但自相攻打分爭，他就站立不住，必要滅亡。
And if Satan rise up against himself, and be divided, he cannot stand, but hath an end.

3:27    沒有人能進壯士家裡搶奪他的傢俱。必先捆住那壯士，才可以搶奪他的家。
No man can enter into a strong man's house, and spoil his goods, except he will first bind the strong man; and then he will spoil his house.

3:28    我實在告訴你們，世人一切的罪，和一切褻瀆的話，都可得赦免。
Verily I say unto you, All sins shall be forgiven unto the sons of men, and blasphemies wherewith soever they shall blaspheme:

3:29    凡褻瀆聖靈的，卻永不得赦免，乃要擔當永遠的罪。
But he that shall blaspheme against the Holy Ghost hath never forgiveness, but is in danger of eternal damnation:

3:30    這話是因為他們說，他是被汙鬼附著的。
Because they said, He hath an unclean spirit.

3:31    當下耶穌的母親，和弟兄，來站在外邊，打發人去叫他。
There came then his brethren and his mother, and, standing without, sent unto him, calling him.

3:32    有許多人在耶穌周圍坐著。他們就告訴他說，看哪，你母親，和你弟兄，在外邊找你。
And the multitude sat about him, and they said unto him, Behold, thy mother and thy brethren without seek for thee.

3:33    耶穌回答說，誰是我的母親，誰是我的弟兄。
And he answered them, saying, Who is my mother, or my brethren?

3:34    就四面觀看那周圍坐著的人，說，看哪，我的母親，我的弟兄。
And he looked round about on them which sat about him, and said, Behold my mother and my brethren!

3:35    凡遵行神旨意的人，就是我的弟兄姐妹和母親了。
For whosoever shall do the will of God, the same is my brother, and my sister, and mother.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


4:1    耶穌又在海邊教訓人。有許多人到他那裡聚集，他只得上船坐下。船在海里，眾人都靠近海站在岸上。
And he began again to teach by the sea side: and there was gathered unto him a great multitude, so that he entered into a ship, and sat in the sea; and the whole multitude was by the sea on the land.

4:2    耶穌就用比喻教訓他們許多道理。在教訓之間，對他們說，
And he taught them many things by parables, and said unto them in his doctrine,

4:3    你們聽阿。有一個撒種的。出去撒種。
Hearken; Behold, there went out a sower to sow:

4:4    撒的時候，有落在路旁的，飛鳥來吃盡了。
And it came to pass, as he sowed, some fell by the way side, and the fowls of the air came and devoured it up.

4:5    有落在土淺石頭地上的，土既不深，發苗最快。
And some fell on stony ground, where it had not much earth; and immediately it sprang up, because it had no depth of earth:

4:6    日頭出來一晒，因為沒有根，就枯乾了。
But when the sun was up, it was scorched; and because it had no root, it withered away.

4:7    有落在荊棘裡的，荊棘長起來，把他擠住了，就不結實。
And some fell among thorns, and the thorns grew up, and choked it, and it yielded no fruit.

4:8    又有落在好土裡的，就發生長大，結實有三十倍的，有六十倍的，有一百倍的。
And other fell on good ground, and did yield fruit that sprang up and increased; and brought forth, some thirty, and some sixty, and some an hundred.

4:9    又說，有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
And he said unto them, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

4:10    無人的時候，跟隨耶穌的人，和十二個門徒，問他這比喻的意思。
And when he was alone, they that were about him with the twelve asked of him the parable.

4:11    耶穌對他們說，神國的奧祕，只叫你們知道，若是對外人講，凡事就用比喻。
And he said unto them, Unto you it is given to know the mystery of the kingdom of God: but unto them that are without, all these things are done in parables:

4:12    叫他們看是看見，卻不曉得。聽是聽見，卻不明白。恐怕他們迴轉過來，就得赦免。
That seeing they may see, and not perceive; and hearing they may hear, and not understand; lest at any time they should be converted, and their sins should be forgiven them.

4:13    又對他們說，你們不明白這比喻嗎。這樣怎能明白一切的比喻呢。
And he said unto them, Know ye not this parable? and how then will ye know all parables?

4:14    撒種之人所撒的，就是道。
The sower soweth the word.

4:15    那撒在路旁的，就是人聽了道，撒但立刻來，把撒在他心裡的道奪了去。
And these are they by the way side, where the word is sown; but when they have heard, Satan cometh immediately, and taketh away the word that was sown in their hearts.

4:16    那撒在石頭地上的，就是人聽了道，立刻歡喜領受。
And these are they likewise which are sown on stony ground; who, when they have heard the word, immediately receive it with gladness;

4:17    但他心裡沒有根，不過是暫時的，及至為道遭了患難，或是受了逼迫，立刻就跌倒了。
And have no root in themselves, and so endure but for a time: afterward, when affliction or persecution ariseth for the word's sake, immediately they are offended.

4:18    還有那撒在荊棘裡的，就是人聽了道。
And these are they which are sown among thorns; such as hear the word,

4:19    後來有世上的思慮，錢財的迷惑，和別樣的私慾，進來把道擠住了，就不能結實。
And the cares of this world, and the deceitfulness of riches, and the lusts of other things entering in, choke the word, and it becometh unfruitful.

4:20    那撒在好地上的，就是人聽道，又領受，並且結實，有三十倍的，有六十倍的，有一百倍的。
And these are they which are sown on good ground; such as hear the word, and receive it, and bring forth fruit, some thirtyfold, some sixty, and some an hundred.

4:21    耶穌又對他們說，人拿燈來，豈是放在鬥底下，床底下，不放在燈臺上嗎。
And he said unto them, Is a candle brought to be put under a bushel, or under a bed? and not to be set on a candlestick?

4:22    因為掩藏的事，沒有不顯出來的。隱瞞的事，沒有不露出來的。
For there is nothing hid, which shall not be manifested; neither was any thing kept secret, but that it should come abroad.

4:23    有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.

4:24    又說你們所聽的要留心。你們用什麼量器量給人，也必用什麼量器量給你們，並且要多給你們。
And he said unto them, Take heed what ye hear: with what measure ye mete, it shall be measured to you: and unto you that hear shall more be given.

4:25    因為有的還要給他。沒有的，連他所有的也要奪去。
For he that hath, to him shall be given: and he that hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he hath.

4:26    又說，神的國，如同人把種撒在地上，
And he said, So is the kingdom of God, as if a man should cast seed into the ground;

4:27    黑夜睡覺，白日起來，這種就發芽漸長，那人卻不曉得如何這樣。
And should sleep, and rise night and day, and the seed should spring and grow up, he knoweth not how.

4:28    地生五穀，是出於自然的。先發苗，後長穗，再後穗上結成飽滿的子粒。
For the earth bringeth forth fruit of herself; first the blade, then the ear, after that the full corn in the ear.

4:29    谷既熟了，就用鐮刀去割，因為收成的時候到了。
But when the fruit is brought forth, immediately he putteth in the sickle, because the harvest is come.

4:30    又說，神的國，我們可用什麼比較呢。可用什麼比喻表明呢。
And he said, Whereunto shall we liken the kingdom of God? or with what comparison shall we compare it?

4:31    好像一粒芥菜種，種在地裡的時候，雖比地上的百種都小，
It is like a grain of mustard seed, which, when it is sown in the earth, is less than all the seeds that be in the earth:

4:32    但種上以後，就長起來，比各樣的菜都大，又長出大枝來。甚至天上的飛鳥，可以宿在他的蔭下。
But when it is sown, it groweth up, and becometh greater than all herbs, and shooteth out great branches; so that the fowls of the air may lodge under the shadow of it.

4:33    耶穌用許多這樣的比喻，照他們所能聽的，對他們講道。
And with many such parables spake he the word unto them, as they were able to hear it.

4:34    若不用比喻，就不對他們講。沒有人的時候，就把一切的道講給門徒聽。
But without a parable spake he not unto them: and when they were alone, he expounded all things to his disciples.

4:35    當那天晚上，耶穌對門徒說，我們渡到那邊去吧。
And the same day, when the even was come, he saith unto them, Let us pass over unto the other side.

4:36    門徒離開眾人，耶穌仍在船上，他們就把他一同帶去。也有別的船和他同行。
And when they had sent away the multitude, they took him even as he was in the ship. And there were also with him other little ships.

4:37    忽然起了暴風，波浪打入船內，甚至船要滿了水。
And there arose a great storm of wind, and the waves beat into the ship, so that it was now full.

4:38    耶穌在船尾上，枕著枕頭睡覺。門徒叫醒了他，說，夫子，我們喪命，你不顧嗎。
And he was in the hinder part of the ship, asleep on a pillow: and they awake him, and say unto him, Master, carest thou not that we perish?

4:39    耶穌醒了，斥責風，向海說，住了吧，靜了吧。風就止住，大大的平靜了。
And he arose, and rebuked the wind, and said unto the sea, Peace, be still. And the wind ceased, and there was a great calm.

4:40    耶穌對他們說，為什麼膽怯。你們沒有信心嗎。
And he said unto them, Why are ye so fearful? how is it that ye have no faith?

4:41    他們就大大的懼怕，彼此說，這到底是誰，連風和海也聽從他了。
And they feared exceedingly, and said one to another, What manner of man is this, that even the wind and the sea obey him?




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


5:1    他們來到海邊，格拉森人的地方。
And they came over unto the other side of the sea, into the country of the Gadarenes.

5:2    耶穌一下船，就有一個被汙鬼咐著的人，從墳塋裡出來迎著他。
And when he was come out of the ship, immediately there met him out of the tombs a man with an unclean spirit,

5:3    那人常住在墳塋裡，沒有人能捆住他，就是用鐵鏈也不能。
Who had his dwelling among the tombs; and no man could bind him, no, not with chains:

5:4    因為人屢次用腳鐐和鐵鏈捆鎖他，鐵鏈竟被他掙斷了，腳鐐也被他弄碎了。總沒有人能制伏他。
Because that he had been often bound with fetters and chains, and the chains had been plucked asunder by him, and the fetters broken in pieces: neither could any man tame him.

5:5    他晝夜常在墳塋裡和山中喊叫，又用石頭砍自己。
And always, night and day, he was in the mountains, and in the tombs, crying, and cutting himself with stones.

5:6    他遠遠的看見耶穌，就跑過去拜他。
But when he saw Jesus afar off, he ran and worshipped him,

5:7    大聲呼叫說，至高神的兒子耶穌，我與你有什麼相干。我指著神懇求你，不要叫我受苦。
And cried with a loud voice, and said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of the most high God? I adjure thee by God, that thou torment me not.

5:8    是因耶穌曾吩咐他說，汙鬼阿，從這人身上出來吧。
For he said unto him, Come out of the man, thou unclean spirit.

5:9    耶穌問他說，你名叫什麼。回答說，我名叫群，因為我們多的緣故。
And he asked him, What is thy name? And he answered, saying, My name is Legion: for we are many.

5:10    就再三的求耶穌，不要叫他們離開那地方。
And he besought him much that he would not send them away out of the country.

5:11    在那裡山坡上，有一大群豬吃食。
Now there was there nigh unto the mountains a great herd of swine feeding.

5:12    鬼就央求耶穌說，求你打發我們往豬群裡附著豬去。
And all the devils besought him, saying, Send us into the swine, that we may enter into them.

5:13    耶穌準了他們。汙鬼就出來，進入豬裡去。於是那群豬闖下山崖，投在海里，淹死了。豬的數目，約有二千。
And forthwith Jesus gave them leave. And the unclean spirits went out, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the sea, (they were about two thousand;) and were choked in the sea.

5:14    放豬的就逃跑了，去告訴城裡和鄉下的人。眾人就來要看是什麼事。
And they that fed the swine fled, and told it in the city, and in the country. And they went out to see what it was that was done.

5:15    他們來到耶穌那裡，看見那被鬼附著的人，就是從前被群鬼所附的，坐著，穿上衣服，心裡明白過來。他們就害怕。
And they come to Jesus, and see him that was possessed with the devil, and had the legion, sitting, and clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.

5:16    看見這事的，便將鬼附之人所遇見的，和那群豬的事，都告訴了眾人。
And they that saw it told them how it befell to him that was possessed with the devil, and also concerning the swine.

5:17    眾人就央求耶穌離開他們的境界。
And they began to pray him to depart out of their coasts.

5:18    耶穌上船的時後，那從前被鬼附著的人，懇求和耶穌同在。
And when he was come into the ship, he that had been possessed with the devil prayed him that he might be with him.

5:19    耶穌不許，卻對他說，你回家去，到你的親屬那裡，將主為你所作的，是何等大的事，是怎樣憐憫你，都告訴他們。
Howbeit Jesus suffered him not, but saith unto him, Go home to thy friends, and tell them how great things the Lord hath done for thee, and hath had compassion on thee.

5:20    那人就走了，在低加波利，傳揚耶穌為他作了何等大的事，眾人都希奇。
And he departed, and began to publish in Decapolis how great things Jesus had done for him: and all men did marvel.

5:21    耶穌坐船又渡到那邊去，就有許多人到他那裡聚集。他正在海邊上。
And when Jesus was passed over again by ship unto the other side, much people gathered unto him: and he was nigh unto the sea.

5:22    有一個管會堂的人，名叫睚魯，來見耶穌，就伏在他腳前，
And, behold, there cometh one of the rulers of the synagogue, Jairus by name; and when he saw him, he fell at his feet,

5:23    再三的求他說，我的小女兒快要死了，求你去按手在他身上，使他痊癒，得以活了。
And besought him greatly, saying, My little daughter lieth at the point of death: I pray thee, come and lay thy hands on her, that she may be healed; and she shall live.

5:24    耶穌就和他同去，有許多人跟隨擁擠他。
And Jesus went with him; and much people followed him, and thronged him.

5:25    有一個女人，患了十二年的血漏，
And a certain woman, which had an issue of blood twelve years,

5:26    在好些醫生手裡，受了許多的苦。又花盡了他所有的，一點也不見好，病勢反倒更重了。
And had suffered many things of many physicians, and had spent all that she had, and was nothing bettered, but rather grew worse,

5:27    他聽見耶穌的事，就從後頭來，雜在眾人中間，摸耶穌的衣裳。
When she had heard of Jesus, came in the press behind, and touched his garment.

5:28    意思說，我只摸他的衣裳，就必痊癒。
For she said, If I may touch but his clothes, I shall be whole.

5:29    於是他血漏的源頭，立刻乾了。他便覺得身上的災病好了。
And straightway the fountain of her blood was dried up; and she felt in her body that she was healed of that plague.

5:30    耶穌頓時心裡覺得有能力從自己身上出去，就在眾人中間轉過來說，誰摸我的衣裳。
And Jesus, immediately knowing in himself that virtue had gone out of him, turned him about in the press, and said, Who touched my clothes?

5:31    門徒對他說，你看眾人擁擠你，還說誰摸我嗎。
And his disciples said unto him, Thou seest the multitude thronging thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?

5:32    耶穌周圍觀看，要見作這事的女人。
And he looked round about to see her that had done this thing.

5:33    那女人知道在自己身上所成的事，就恐懼戰競，來俯伏在耶穌跟前，將實情全告訴他。
But the woman fearing and trembling, knowing what was done in her, came and fell down before him, and told him all the truth.

5:34    耶穌對他說，女兒，你的信救了你，平平安安的回去吧。你的災病痊癒了。
And he said unto her, Daughter, thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace, and be whole of thy plague.

5:35    還說話的時候，有人從管會堂的家裡來說，你的女兒死了，何必還勞動先生呢。
While he yet spake, there came from the ruler of the synagogue's house certain which said, Thy daughter is dead: why troublest thou the Master any further?

5:36    耶穌聽見所說的話，就對管會堂的說，不要怕。只要信。
As soon as Jesus heard the word that was spoken, he saith unto the ruler of the synagogue, Be not afraid, only believe.

5:37    於是帶著彼得，雅各，和雅各的兄弟約翰同去，不許別人跟隨他。
And he suffered no man to follow him, save Peter, and James, and John the brother of James.

5:38    他們來到管會堂的家裡，耶穌看見那裡亂囔，並有人大大的哭泣哀號。
And he cometh to the house of the ruler of the synagogue, and seeth the tumult, and them that wept and wailed greatly.

5:39    進到裡面，就對他們說，為什麼亂囔哭泣呢，孩子不是死了，是睡著了。
And when he was come in, he saith unto them, Why make ye this ado, and weep? the damsel is not dead, but sleepeth.

5:40    他們就嗤笑耶穌。耶穌把他們都攆出去，就帶著孩子的父母，和跟隨的人進入了孩子所在的地方。
And they laughed him to scorn. But when he had put them all out, he taketh the father and the mother of the damsel, and them that were with him, and entereth in where the damsel was lying.

5:41    就拉著孩子的手，對他說，大利大古米。翻出來，就是說，閨女，我吩咐你起來。
And he took the damsel by the hand, and said unto her, Talitha cumi; which is, being interpreted, Damsel, I say unto thee, arise.

5:42    那閨女立時起來走。他們就大大的驚奇。閨女已經十二歲了。
And straightway the damsel arose, and walked; for she was of the age of twelve years. And they were astonished with a great astonishment.

5:43    耶穌切切的囑咐他們，不要叫人知道這事。又吩咐給他東西吃。
And he charged them straitly that no man should know it; and commanded that something should be given her to eat.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


6:1    耶穌離開那裡，來到自己的家鄉。門徒也跟從他。
And he went out from thence, and came into his own country; and his disciples follow him.

6:2    他到了安息日，他在會堂裡教訓人。眾人聽見，就甚希奇，說，這人從那裡有這些事呢，所賜給他的是什麼智慧，他手所作的是何等的異能呢。
And when the sabbath day was come, he began to teach in the synagogue: and many hearing him were astonished, saying, From whence hath this man these things? and what wisdom is this which is given unto him, that even such mighty works are wrought by his hands?

6:3    這不是那木匠嗎。不是馬利亞的兒子，雅各，約西，猶大，西門的長兄嗎。他的妹妹們不也是在我們這裡嗎。他們就厭棄他。（厭棄他原文作因他跌倒）
Is not this the carpenter, the son of Mary, the brother of James, and Joses, and of Juda, and Simon? and are not his sisters here with us? And they were offended at him.

6:4    耶穌對他們說，大凡先知，除了本地親屬本家之外，沒有不被人尊敬的。
But Jesus said unto them, A prophet is not without honour, but in his own country, and among his own kin, and in his own house.

6:5    耶穌就在那裡不得行什麼異能，不過按手在幾個病人身上，治好他們。
And he could there do no mighty work, save that he laid his hands upon a few sick folk, and healed them.

6:6    他也詫異他們不信，就往周圍鄉村教訓人去了。
And he marvelled because of their unbelief. And he went round about the villages, teaching.

6:7    耶穌叫了十二個門徒來，差遣他們兩個兩個的出去。也賜給他們權柄，制伏汙鬼。
And he called unto him the twelve, and began to send them forth by two and two; and gave them power over unclean spirits;

6:8    並且囑咐他們，行路的時候，不要帶食物和口袋，腰袋裡也不要帶錢，除了柺杖以外，什麼都不要帶。
And commanded them that they should take nothing for their journey, save a staff only; no scrip, no bread, no money in their purse:

6:9    只要穿鞋。也不要穿兩件掛子。
But be shod with sandals; and not put on two coats.

6:10    又對他們說，你們無論到何處，進了人的家，就住在那裡，直到離開那地方。
And he said unto them, In what place soever ye enter into an house, there abide till ye depart from that place.

6:11    何處的人，不接待你們，不聽你們，你們離開那裡的時候，就把腳上的塵土跺下去，對他們作見證。
And whosoever shall not receive you, nor hear you, when ye depart thence, shake off the dust under your feet for a testimony against them. Verily I say unto you, It shall be more tolerable for Sodom and Gomorrha in the day of judgment, than for that city.

6:12    門徒就出去，傳道叫人悔改。
And they went out, and preached that men should repent.

6:13    又趕出許多的鬼，用油抹了許多病人，治好他們。
And they cast out many devils, and anointed with oil many that were sick, and healed them.

6:14    耶穌的名聲傳揚出來。希律王聽見了，就說，施洗的約翰從死裡復活了，所以這些異能由他裡面發出來。
And king Herod heard of him; (for his name was spread abroad:) and he said, That John the Baptist was risen from the dead, and therefore mighty works do shew forth themselves in him.

6:15    但別人說，是以利亞。又有人說，是先知，正像先知中的一位。
Others said, That it is Elias. And others said, That it is a prophet, or as one of the prophets.

6:16    希律聽見，卻說，是我所斬的約翰，他復活了。
But when Herod heard thereof, he said, It is John, whom I beheaded: he is risen from the dead.

6:17    先是希律為他兄弟腓力的妻子希羅底的緣故，差人去拿住約翰，鎖在監裡，因為希律已經娶了那婦人。
For Herod himself had sent forth and laid hold upon John, and bound him in prison for Herodias' sake, his brother Philip's wife: for he had married her.

6:18    約翰曾對希律說，你娶你兄弟的妻子是不合理的。
For John had said unto Herod, It is not lawful for thee to have thy brother's wife.

6:19    於是希羅底懷恨他，想要殺他。只是不能。
Therefore Herodias had a quarrel against him, and would have killed him; but she could not:

6:20    因為希律知道約翰是義人，是聖人，所以敬畏他，保護他。聽他講論，就多照著行。並且樂意聽他。（多照著行有古卷作遊移不定）
For Herod feared John, knowing that he was a just man and an holy, and observed him; and when he heard him, he did many things, and heard him gladly.

6:21    有一天，恰巧是希律的生日，希律擺設筵席，請了大臣和千夫長，並加利利作首領的。
And when a convenient day was come, that Herod on his birthday made a supper to his lords, high captains, and chief estates of Galilee;

6:22    希羅底的女兒進來跳舞，使希律和同席的人都歡喜。王就對女子說，你隨意向我求什麼，我必給你。
And when the daughter of the said Herodias came in, and danced, and pleased Herod and them that sat with him, the king said unto the damsel, Ask of me whatsoever thou wilt, and I will give it thee.

6:23    又對他起誓說，隨你向我求什麼，就是我國的一半，我也必給你。
And he sware unto her, Whatsoever thou shalt ask of me, I will give it thee, unto the half of my kingdom.

6:24    他就出去，對他母親說，我可以求什麼呢。他母親說，施洗約翰的頭。
And she went forth, and said unto her mother, What shall I ask? And she said, The head of John the Baptist.

6:25    他就急忙進去見王，求他說，我願王立時把施洗約翰的頭，放在盤子裡給我。
And she came in straightway with haste unto the king, and asked, saying, I will that thou give me by and by in a charger the head of John the Baptist.

6:26    王就甚憂愁。但因他所起的誓，又因同席的人，就不肯推辭。
And the king was exceeding sorry; yet for his oath's sake, and for their sakes which sat with him, he would not reject her.

6:27    隨既差一個護衛兵，吩咐拿約翰的頭來。護衛兵就去在監裡斬了約翰，
And immediately the king sent an executioner, and commanded his head to be brought: and he went and beheaded him in the prison,

6:28    把頭放在盤子裡，拿來給女子，女子就給他母親。
And brought his head in a charger, and gave it to the damsel: and the damsel gave it to her mother.

6:29    約翰的門徒聽見了，就來把他的屍首領去，葬在墳墓裡。
And when his disciples heard of it, they came and took up his corpse, and laid it in a tomb.

6:30    使徒聚集到耶穌那裡，將一切所作的事，所傳的道，全告訴他。
And the apostles gathered themselves together unto Jesus, and told him all things, both what they had done, and what they had taught.

6:31    他就說，你們來同我暗暗的到曠野地方去歇一歇。這是因為來往的人多，他們連吃飯也沒有工夫。
And he said unto them, Come ye yourselves apart into a desert place, and rest a while: for there were many coming and going, and they had no leisure so much as to eat.

6:32    他們就坐船，暗暗的往曠野地方去。
And they departed into a desert place by ship privately.

6:33    眾人看見他們去，有許多認識他們的，就從各城步行，一同跑到那裡，比他們先趕到了。
And the people saw them departing, and many knew him, and ran afoot thither out of all cities, and outwent them, and came together unto him.

6:34    耶穌出來，見有許多的人，就憐憫他們。因為他們如同羊沒有牧人一般。於是開口教訓他們許多道理。
And Jesus, when he came out, saw much people, and was moved with compassion toward them, because they were as sheep not having a shepherd: and he began to teach them many things.

6:35    天已經晚了，門徒進前來說，這是野地，天已經晚了，
And when the day was now far spent, his disciples came unto him, and said, This is a desert place, and now the time is far passed:

6:36    請叫眾人散開，他們好往四面鄉村裡去，自己買什麼吃的。
Send them away, that they may go into the country round about, and into the villages, and buy themselves bread: for they have nothing to eat.

6:37    耶穌回答說，你們給他們吃吧。門徒說，我們可以去買二十兩銀子的餅，給他們吃嗎。
He answered and said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they say unto him, Shall we go and buy two hundred pennyworth of bread, and give them to eat?

6:38    耶穌說，你們有多少餅，可以去看看。他們知道了，就說，五個餅，兩條魚。
He saith unto them, How many loaves have ye? go and see. And when they knew, they say, Five, and two fishes.

6:39    耶穌吩咐他們叫眾人一幫一幫的，坐在青草地上。
And he commanded them to make all sit down by companies upon the green grass.

6:40    眾人就一排一排的坐下，有一百一排的，有五十一排的。
And they sat down in ranks, by hundreds, and by fifties.

6:41    耶穌拿著這五個餅，兩條魚，望天祝福，擘開餅，遞給門徒擺在眾人面前。也把那兩條魚分給眾人。
And when he had taken the five loaves and the two fishes, he looked up to heaven, and blessed, and brake the loaves, and gave them to his disciples to set before them; and the two fishes divided he among them all.

6:42    他們都吃，並且吃飽了。
And they did all eat, and were filled.

6:43    門徒就把碎餅碎魚，收拾起來，裝滿了十二個籃子。
And they took up twelve baskets full of the fragments, and of the fishes.

6:44    吃餅的男子，共有五千。
And they that did eat of the loaves were about five thousand men.

6:45    耶穌隨既催門徒上船，先渡到那邊伯賽大去，等他叫眾人散開。
And straightway he constrained his disciples to get into the ship, and to go to the other side before unto Bethsaida, while he sent away the people.

6:46    他既辭別了他們，就往山上去禱告。
And when he had sent them away, he departed into a mountain to pray.

6:47    到了晚上，船在海中，耶穌獨自在岸上。
And when even was come, the ship was in the midst of the sea, and he alone on the land.

6:48    看見門徒，因風不順，搖櫓甚苦。夜裡約有四更天，就在海面上走往他們那裡去，意思要走過他們去。
And he saw them toiling in rowing; for the wind was contrary unto them: and about the fourth watch of the night he cometh unto them, walking upon the sea, and would have passed by them.

6:49    但門徒看見他在海面上走，以為是鬼怪，就喊叫起來。
But when they saw him walking upon the sea, they supposed it had been a spirit, and cried out:

6:50    因為他們都看見了他，且甚驚慌。耶穌連忙對他們說，你們放心。是我，不要怕。
For they all saw him, and were troubled. And immediately he talked with them, and saith unto them, Be of good cheer: it is I; be not afraid.

6:51    於是到他們那裡上了船，風就住了。他們心裡十分驚奇。
And he went up unto them into the ship; and the wind ceased: and they were sore amazed in themselves beyond measure, and wondered.

6:52    這是因為他們不明白那分餅的事，心裡還是愚頑。
For they considered not the miracle of the loaves: for their heart was hardened.

6:53    既渡過去，來到革尼撒勒地方，就靠了岸。
And when they had passed over, they came into the land of Gennesaret, and drew to the shore.

6:54    一下船，眾人認得是耶穌。
And when they were come out of the ship, straightway they knew him,

6:55    就跑遍那一帶地方，聽見他在何處，便將有病的人，用褥子抬到那裡。
And ran through that whole region round about, and began to carry about in beds those that were sick, where they heard he was.

6:56    凡耶穌所到的地方，或村中，或城裡，或鄉間，他們都將病人放在街市上，求耶穌只容他們摸他的衣裳？？子。凡摸著的人，就都好了。
And whithersoever he entered, into villages, or cities, or country, they laid the sick in the streets, and besought him that they might touch if it were but the border of his garment: and as many as touched him were made whole.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


7:1    有法利賽人，和幾個文士，從耶路撒冷來，到耶穌那裡聚集。
Then came together unto him the Pharisees, and certain of the scribes, which came from Jerusalem.

7:2    他們曾看見他的門徒中，有人用俗手，就是沒有洗的手，吃飯。
And when they saw some of his disciples eat bread with defiled, that is to say, with unwashen, hands, they found fault.

7:3    （原來法利賽人，和猶太人，都拘守古人的遺傳，若不仔細洗手，就不吃飯。
For the Pharisees, and all the Jews, except they wash their hands oft, eat not, holding the tradition of the elders.

7:4    從市上來，若不洗浴，也不吃飯，還有好些別的規矩，他們歷代拘守，就是洗杯，罐，銅器，等物）。
And when they come from the market, except they wash, they eat not. And many other things there be, which they have received to hold, as the washing of cups, and pots, brasen vessels, and of tables.

7:5    法利賽人和文士問他說，你的門徒為什麼不照古人的遺傳，用俗手吃飯呢。
Then the Pharisees and scribes asked him, Why walk not thy disciples according to the tradition of the elders, but eat bread with unwashen hands?

7:6    耶穌說，以賽亞指著你們假冒為善之人所說的預言，是不錯的，如經上說，這百姓用嘴脣尊敬我，心卻遠離我。
He answered and said unto them, Well hath Esaias prophesied of you hypocrites, as it is written, This people honoureth me with their lips, but their heart is far from me.

7:7    他們將人的吩咐，當作道理教導人，所以拜我也是枉然。
Howbeit in vain do they worship me, teaching for doctrines the commandments of men.

7:8    你們是離棄神的誡命，拘守人的遺傳。
For laying aside the commandment of God, ye hold the tradition of men, as the washing of pots and cups: and many other such like things ye do.

7:9    又說，你們誠然是廢棄神的誡命，要守自己的遺傳。
And he said unto them, Full well ye reject the commandment of God, that ye may keep your own tradition.

7:10    摩西說，當孝敬父母。又說，咒罵父母的，必治死他。
For Moses said, Honour thy father and thy mother; and, Whoso curseth father or mother, let him die the death:

7:11    你們倒說，人若對父母說，我所當奉獻給你的，已經作了各耳板，（各耳板，就是供獻的意思）
But ye say, If a man shall say to his father or mother, It is Corban, that is to say, a gift, by whatsoever thou mightest be profited by me; he shall be free.

7:12    以後你們就不容他再奉養父母。
And ye suffer him no more to do ought for his father or his mother;

7:13    這就是你們承受遺傳，廢了神的道。你們還作許多這樣的事。
Making the word of God of none effect through your tradition, which ye have delivered: and many such like things do ye.

7:14    耶穌又叫眾人來，對他們說，你們都要聽我的話，也要明白。
And when he had called all the people unto him, he said unto them, Hearken unto me every one of you, and understand:

7:15    從外面進去的，不能汙穢人，惟有從裡面出來的，乃能汙穢人。（有古卷在此有，
There is nothing from without a man, that entering into him can defile him: but the things which come out of him, those are they that defile the man.

7:16    有耳可聽的就應當聽）。
If any man have ears to hear, let him hear.

7:17    耶穌離開眾人，進了屋子，門徒就問他這比喻的意思。
And when he was entered into the house from the people, his disciples asked him concerning the parable.

7:18    耶穌對他們說，你們也是這樣不明白嗎。豈不曉得凡從外面進入的，不能汙穢人。
And he saith unto them, Are ye so without understanding also? Do ye not perceive, that whatsoever thing from without entereth into the man, it cannot defile him;

7:19    因為不是入他的心，乃是入他的肚腹，又落到茅廁裡。這是說，各樣的食物，都是潔淨的。
Because it entereth not into his heart, but into the belly, and goeth out into the draught, purging all meats?

7:20    又說，從人裡面出來的，那才能汙穢人。
And he said, That which cometh out of the man, that defileth the man.



7:21    因為從裡面，就是從人心裡，發出惡念，苟合，
For from within, out of the heart of men, proceed evil thoughts, adulteries, fornications, murders,

7:22    偷盜，凶殺，姦淫，貪婪，邪惡，詭詐，淫蕩，嫉妒，謗？？，驕傲，狂妄。
Thefts, covetousness, wickedness, deceit, lasciviousness, an evil eye, blasphemy, pride, foolishness:

7:23    這一切的惡，都是從裡面出來，且能汙穢人。
All these evil things come from within, and defile the man.

7:24    耶穌從那裡起身，往推羅西頓的境內去。進了一家，不願意人知道，卻隱藏不住。
And from thence he arose, and went into the borders of Tyre and Sidon, and entered into an house, and would have no man know it: but he could not be hid.

7:25    當下有一個婦人，他的小女兒被汙鬼附著，聽見耶穌的事，就來俯伏在他腳前。
For a certain woman, whose young daughter had an unclean spirit, heard of him, and came and fell at his feet:

7:26    這婦人是希臘人，屬敘利非尼基族。他求耶穌趕出那鬼，離開他的女兒。
The woman was a Greek, a Syrophenician by nation; and she besought him that he would cast forth the devil out of her daughter.

7:27    耶穌對他說，讓兒女們先吃飽。不好拿兒女的餅丟給狗吃。
But Jesus said unto her, Let the children first be filled: for it is not meet to take the children's bread, and to cast it unto the dogs.

7:28    婦人回答說，主阿，不錯。但是狗在桌子底下，也吃孩子們的碎渣兒。
And she answered and said unto him, Yes, Lord: yet the dogs under the table eat of the children's crumbs.

7:29    耶穌對他說，因這句話，你回去吧。鬼已經離開你的女兒了。
And he said unto her, For this saying go thy way; the devil is gone out of thy daughter.

7:30    他就回家去，見小孩子躺在床上，鬼已經出去了。
And when she was come to her house, she found the devil gone out, and her daughter laid upon the bed.

7:31    耶穌又離開推羅的境界，經過西頓，就從低加波利境內來到加利利海。
And again, departing from the coasts of Tyre and Sidon, he came unto the sea of Galilee, through the midst of the coasts of Decapolis.

7:32    有人帶著一個耳聾舌結的人，來見耶穌，求他按手在他身上。
And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him.

7:33    耶穌領他離開眾人，到一邊去，就用指頭探他的耳朵，吐唾沫抹他的舌頭，
And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue;

7:34    望天嘆息，對他說，以法大，就是說，開了吧。
And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha, that is, Be opened.

7:35    他的耳朵就開了，舌結也解了，說話也清楚了。
And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was loosed, and he spake plain.

7:36    耶穌囑咐他們，不要告訴人。但他越發囑咐，他們越發傳揚開了。
And he charged them that they should tell no man: but the more he charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it;

7:37    眾人分外希奇，說，他所作的事都好，他連聾子也叫他們聽見，啞吧也叫他們說話。
And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things well: he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


8:1    那時，又有許多人聚集，並沒有什麼吃的。耶穌叫門徒來，說，
In those days the multitude being very great, and having nothing to eat, Jesus called his disciples unto him, and saith unto them,

8:2    我憐憫這眾人，因為他們同我在這裡已經三天，也沒有吃的了。
I have compassion on the multitude, because they have now been with me three days, and have nothing to eat:

8:3    我若打發他們餓著回家，就必在路上睏乏。因為其中有從遠處來的。
And if I send them away fasting to their own houses, they will faint by the way: for divers of them came from far.

8:4    門徒回答說，在這野地，從那裡能得餅，叫這些人吃飽呢。
And his disciples answered him, From whence can a man satisfy these men with bread here in the wilderness?

8:5    耶穌問他們說，你們有多少餅。他們說，七個。
And he asked them, How many loaves have ye? And they said, Seven.

8:6    他吩咐眾人坐在地上，就拿著這七個餅，祝謝了，擘開遞給門徒叫他們擺開，門徒就擺在眾人面前。
And he commanded the people to sit down on the ground: and he took the seven loaves, and gave thanks, and brake, and gave to his disciples to set before them; and they did set them before the people.

8:7    又有幾條小魚。耶穌祝了福，就吩咐也擺在眾人面前。
And they had a few small fishes: and he blessed, and commanded to set them also before them.

8:8    眾人都吃，並且吃飽了。收拾剩下的零碎，有七筐子。
So they did eat, and were filled: and they took up of the broken meat that was left seven baskets.

8:9    人數約有四千。耶穌打發他們走了，
And they that had eaten were about four thousand: and he sent them away.

8:10    隨既同門徒上船，來到大瑪努他境內。
And straightway he entered into a ship with his disciples, and came into the parts of Dalmanutha.

8:11    法利賽人出來盤問耶穌，求他從天上顯個神蹟給他們看，想要試探他。
And the Pharisees came forth, and began to question with him, seeking of him a sign from heaven, tempting him.

8:12    耶穌心裡深深的嘆息說，這世代為什麼求神蹟呢。我實在告訴你們，沒有神蹟給這世代看。
And he sighed deeply in his spirit, and saith, Why doth this generation seek after a sign? verily I say unto you, There shall no sign be given unto this generation.

8:13    他就離開他們，又上船往海那邊去了。
And he left them, and entering into the ship again departed to the other side.

8:14    門徒忘了帶餅。在船上除了一個餅，沒有別的食物。
Now the disciples had forgotten to take bread, neither had they in the ship with them more than one loaf.

8:15    耶穌囑咐他們說，你們要謹慎，防備法利賽人的酵，和希律的酵。
And he charged them, saying, Take heed, beware of the leaven of the Pharisees, and of the leaven of Herod.

8:16    他們彼此議論說，這是因為我們沒有餅吧。
And they reasoned among themselves, saying, It is because we have no bread.

8:17    耶穌看出來，就說，你們為什麼因為沒有餅就議論呢。你們還不省悟，還不明白嗎。你們的心還是愚頑嗎。
And when Jesus knew it, he saith unto them, Why reason ye, because ye have no bread? perceive ye not yet, neither understand? have ye your heart yet hardened?

8:18    你們有眼睛看不見嗎，有耳朵，聽不見嗎。也不記得嗎。
Having eyes, see ye not? and having ears, hear ye not? and do ye not remember?

8:19    我擘開那五個餅分給五千人，你們收拾的零碎，裝滿了多少籃子呢。他們說，十二個。
When I brake the five loaves among five thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? They say unto him, Twelve.

8:20    又擘開那七個餅分給四千人，你們收拾的零碎，裝滿了多少筐子呢。他們說，七個。
And when the seven among four thousand, how many baskets full of fragments took ye up? And they said, Seven.

8:21    耶穌說，你們還是不明白嗎。
And he said unto them, How is it that ye do not understand?

8:22    他們來到伯賽大，有人帶一個瞎子來，求耶穌摸他。
And he cometh to Bethsaida; and they bring a blind man unto him, and besought him to touch him.

8:23    耶穌拉著瞎子的手，領他到村外。就吐唾沫在他眼睛上，按手在他身上，問他說，你看見什麼了。
And he took the blind man by the hand, and led him out of the town; and when he had spit on his eyes, and put his hands upon him, he asked him if he saw ought.

8:24    他就抬頭一看說，我看見人了。他們好像樹木，並且行走。
And he looked up, and said, I see men as trees, walking.

8:25    隨後又按手在他眼睛上，他定睛一看，就復了原，樣樣都看得清楚了。
After that he put his hands again upon his eyes, and made him look up: and he was restored, and saw every man clearly.

8:26    耶穌打發他回家，說，連這村子你也不要進去。
And he sent him away to his house, saying, Neither go into the town, nor tell it to any in the town.

8:27    耶穌和門徒出去，往凱撒利亞-腓立比的村莊去。在路上問門徒說，人說我是誰。
And Jesus went out, and his disciples, into the towns of Caesarea Philippi: and by the way he asked his disciples, saying unto them, Whom do men say that I am?

8:28    他們說，有人說，是施洗的約翰。有人說，是以利亞。又有人說，是先知裡的一位。
And they answered, John the Baptist: but some say, Elias; and others, One of the prophets.

8:29    又問他們說，你們說我是誰。彼得回答說，你是基督。
And he saith unto them, But whom say ye that I am? And Peter answereth and saith unto him, Thou art the Christ.

8:30    耶穌就禁戒他們，不要告訴人。
And he charged them that they should tell no man of him.

8:31    從此他教訓他們說，人子必須受許多的苦，被長老祭司長和文士棄絕，並且被殺，過三天覆活。
And he began to teach them, that the Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders, and of the chief priests, and scribes, and be killed, and after three days rise again.

8:32    耶穌明明的說這話，彼得就拉著他，勸他。
And he spake that saying openly. And Peter took him, and began to rebuke him.

8:33    耶穌轉過來，看著門徒，就責備彼得說，撒但，退我後邊去吧。因為你不體貼神的意思，只體貼人的意思。
But when he had turned about and looked on his disciples, he rebuked Peter, saying, Get thee behind me, Satan: for thou savourest not the things that be of God, but the things that be of men.

8:34    於是叫眾人和門徒來，對他們說，若有人要跟從我，就當捨己，背起他的十字架來跟從我。
And when he had called the people unto him with his disciples also, he said unto them, Whosoever will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me.

8:35    因為凡救自己生命的，（生命或作靈魂下同）必喪掉生命。凡為我和福音喪掉生命的，必救了生命。
For whosoever will save his life shall lose it; but whosoever shall lose his life for my sake and the gospel's, the same shall save it.

8:36    人就是賺得全世界，賠上自己的生命，有什麼益處呢。
For what shall it profit a man, if he shall gain the whole world, and lose his own soul?

8:37    人還能拿什麼換生命呢。
Or what shall a man give in exchange for his soul?

8:38    凡在這淫亂罪惡的世代，把我和我的道當作可恥的，人子在他父的榮耀裡，同聖天使降臨的時候，也要把那人當作可恥的。
Whosoever therefore shall be ashamed of me and of my words in this adulterous and sinful generation; of him also shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he cometh in the glory of his Father with the holy angels.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


9:1    耶穌又對他們說，我實在告訴你們，站在這裡的，有人在沒嘗死味以前，必要看見神的國大有能力臨到。
And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, That there be some of them that stand here, which shall not taste of death, till they have seen the kingdom of God come with power.



9:2    過了六天，耶穌帶著彼得，雅各，約翰，暗暗的上了高山，就在他們面前變了形像。
And after six days Jesus taketh with him Peter, and James, and John, and leadeth them up into an high mountain apart by themselves: and he was transfigured before them.

9:3    衣服放光，極其潔白。地上漂布的，沒有一個能漂得那樣白。
And his raiment became shining, exceeding white as snow; so as no fuller on earth can white them.

9:4    忽然有以利亞同摩西向他們顯現。並且和耶穌說話。
And there appeared unto them Elias with Moses: and they were talking with Jesus.

9:5    彼得對耶穌說，拉比，（拉比就是夫子）我們在這裡真好。可以搭三座棚，一座為你，一座為摩西，一座為以利亞。
And Peter answered and said to Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias.

9:6    彼得不知道說什麼才好。因為他們甚是懼怕，
For he wist not what to say; for they were sore afraid.

9:7    有一朵雲彩來遮蓋他們。也有聲音從雲彩裡出來說，這是我的愛子，你們要聽他。
And there was a cloud that overshadowed them: and a voice came out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.

9:8    門徒忽然周圍一看，不見一人，只見耶穌同他們在那裡。
And suddenly, when they had looked round about, they saw no man any more, save Jesus only with themselves.

9:9    下山的時候，耶穌囑咐他們說，人子還沒有從死裡復活，你們不要將所看見的告訴人。
And as they came down from the mountain, he charged them that they should tell no man what things they had seen, till the Son of man were risen from the dead.

9:10    門徒將這話存記在心，彼此議論從死裡復活是什麼意思。
And they kept that saying with themselves, questioning one with another what the rising from the dead should mean.

9:11    他們就問耶穌說，文士為什麼說，以利亞必須先來。
And they asked him, saying, Why say the scribes that Elias must first come?

9:12    耶穌說，以利亞固然先來，復興萬事。經上不是指著人子說，他要受許多的苦，被人輕慢呢。
And he answered and told them, Elias verily cometh first, and restoreth all things; and how it is written of the Son of man, that he must suffer many things, and be set at nought.

9:13    我告訴你們，以利亞已經來了，他們也任意待他，正如經上所指著他的話。
But I say unto you, That Elias is indeed come, and they have done unto him whatsoever they listed, as it is written of him.

9:14    耶穌到了門徒那裡，看見有許多人圍著他們，又有文士和他們辯論。
And when he came to his disciples, he saw a great multitude about them, and the scribes questioning with them.

9:15    眾人一見耶穌，都甚希奇，就跑上去問他的安。
And straightway all the people, when they beheld him, were greatly amazed, and running to him saluted him.

9:16    耶穌問他們說，你們和他們辯論的是什麼。
And he asked the scribes, What question ye with them?

9:17    眾人中間有一個回答說，夫子，我帶了我的兒子到你這裡來，他被啞巴鬼附著。
And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit;

9:18    無論在那裡，鬼捉弄他，把他摔倒，他就口中流沫，咬牙切齒，身體枯乾，我請過你的門徒把鬼趕出去，他們卻是不能。
And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him: and he foameth, and gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away: and I spake to thy disciples that they should cast him out; and they could not.

9:19    耶穌說，噯，不信的世代阿，我在你們這裡要到幾時呢。我忍耐你們要到幾時呢。把他帶到我這裡來吧。
He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me.

9:20    他們就帶了他來。他一見耶穌，鬼便叫他重重的抽瘋。倒在地上，翻來覆去，口中流沫。
And they brought him unto him: and when he saw him, straightway the spirit tare him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming.

9:21    耶穌問他父親說，他得這病，有多少日子呢。回答說，從小的時後。
And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him? And he said, Of a child.

9:22    鬼屢次把他扔在火裡，水裡，要滅他。你若能作什麼，求你憐憫我們，幫助我們。
And ofttimes it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters, to destroy him: but if thou canst do any thing, have compassion on us, and help us.

9:23    耶穌對他說，你若能信，在信的人，凡事都能。
Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to him that believeth.

9:24    孩子的父親立時喊著說，我信。但我信不足，求主幫助。（有古卷作立時流淚的喊著說）
And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said with tears, Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.

9:25    耶穌看見眾人都跑上來，就斥責那汙鬼，說，你們聾啞的鬼，我吩咐你從他裡頭出來，再不要進去。
When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou dumb and deaf spirit, I charge thee, come out of him, and enter no more into him.

9:26    那鬼喊叫，使孩子大大的抽了一陣瘋，就出來了。孩子好像死了一班，以致眾人多半說，他是死了。
And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him: and he was as one dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead.

9:27    但耶穌拉他的手，扶他起來，他就站起來了。
But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up; and he arose.

9:28    耶穌進了屋子，門徒就暗暗的問他說，我們為什麼不能趕出他去呢。
And when he was come into the house, his disciples asked him privately, Why could not we cast him out?

9:29    耶穌說，非用禱告，（有古卷在這有禁食二字）這一類的鬼，總不能出來。（或作不能趕他出來）
And he said unto them, This kind can come forth by nothing, but by prayer and fasting.

9:30    他們離開那地方，經過加利利。耶穌不願意人知道。
And they departed thence, and passed through Galilee; and he would not that any man should know it.

9:31    於是教訓門徒，說，人子將要被交在人手裡，他們要殺害他。被殺以後，過三天他要復活。
For he taught his disciples, and said unto them, The Son of man is delivered into the hands of men, and they shall kill him; and after that he is killed, he shall rise the third day.

9:32    門徒卻不明白這話，又不敢問他。
But they understood not that saying, and were afraid to ask him.

9:33    他們來到迦百農。耶穌在屋裡問門徒說，你們在路上議論的是什麼。
And he came to Capernaum: and being in the house he asked them, What was it that ye disputed among yourselves by the way?

9:34    門徒不作聲，因為他們在路上彼此爭論誰為大。
But they held their peace: for by the way they had disputed among themselves, who should be the greatest.

9:35    耶穌坐下，叫十二個門徒來，說，有人願意作首先的，他必作眾人末後的，作眾人的用人。
And he sat down, and called the twelve, and saith unto them, If any man desire to be first, the same shall be last of all, and servant of all.

9:36    於是領過一個小孩子來，叫他站在門徒中間。又抱起他來，對他們說，
And he took a child, and set him in the midst of them: and when he had taken him in his arms, he said unto them,

9:37    凡為我名，接待一個像這小孩子的就是接待我。凡接待我的，不是接待我，乃是接待那差我來的。
Whosoever shall receive one of such children in my name, receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me, receiveth not me, but him that sent me.

9:38    約翰對耶穌說，夫子，我們看見一個人，奉你的名趕鬼，我們就禁止他，因為他不跟從我們。
And John answered him, saying, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name, and he followeth not us: and we forbad him, because he followeth not us.

9:39    耶穌說，不要禁止他。因為沒有人奉我名行異能，反倒輕易毀謗我。
But Jesus said, Forbid him not: for there is no man which shall do a miracle in my name, that can lightly speak evil of me.

9:40    不敵擋我們的，就是幫助我們的。
For he that is not against us is on our part.



9:41    凡因你們是屬基督，給你們一杯水喝的，我實在告訴你們，他不能不得賞賜。
For whosoever shall give you a cup of water to drink in my name, because ye belong to Christ, verily I say unto you, he shall not lose his reward.

9:42    凡使這信我的一個小子跌倒的，倒不如把大磨石栓在這人的頸項上，扔在海里。
And whosoever shall offend one of these little ones that believe in me, it is better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he were cast into the sea.

9:43    倘若你一隻手叫你跌倒，就把他砍下來。
And if thy hand offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter into life maimed, than having two hands to go into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched:

9:44    你缺了肢體進入永生，強如有兩隻手落到地獄，入那不滅的火裡去。
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.

9:45    倘若你一隻腳叫你跌倒，就把他砍下來。
And if thy foot offend thee, cut it off: it is better for thee to enter halt into life, than having two feet to be cast into hell, into the fire that never shall be quenched:

9:46    你瘸腿進入永生，強如有兩隻腳被丟在地獄裡。
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.

9:47    倘若你一隻眼叫你跌倒，就去掉他。你只有一隻眼進入神的國，強如有兩隻眼被丟在地獄裡。
And if thine eye offend thee, pluck it out: it is better for thee to enter into the kingdom of God with one eye, than having two eyes to be cast into hell fire:

9:48    在那裡蟲是不死的，火是不滅的。
Where their worm dieth not, and the fire is not quenched.

9:49    因為必用火當鹽，醃各人。（有古卷在此有凡祭物必用鹽醃）
For every one shall be salted with fire, and every sacrifice shall be salted with salt.

9:50    鹽本是好的，若失了味，可用什麼叫他在鹹呢。你們裡頭應當有鹽，彼此和睦。
Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his saltness, wherewith will ye season it? Have salt in yourselves, and have peace one with another.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


10:1    耶穌從那裡起身，來到猶太的境界，並約旦河外。眾人又聚集到他那裡，他又照常教訓他們。
And he arose from thence, and cometh into the coasts of Judaea by the farther side of Jordan: and the people resort unto him again; and, as he was wont, he taught them again.

10:2    有法利賽人來問他說，人休妻可以不可以，意思要試探他。
And the Pharisees came to him, and asked him, Is it lawful for a man to put away his wife? tempting him.

10:3    耶穌回答說，摩西吩咐你們的是什麼。
And he answered and said unto them, What did Moses command you?

10:4    他們說，摩西許人寫了休書便可以休妻。
And they said, Moses suffered to write a bill of divorcement, and to put her away.

10:5    耶穌說，摩西因為你們的心硬，所以寫這條例給你們。
And Jesus answered and said unto them, For the hardness of your heart he wrote you this precept.

10:6    但從起初創造的時候，神造人是造男造女。
But from the beginning of the creation God made them male and female.

10:7    因此人要離開父母，與妻子連合，二人成為一體。
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and cleave to his wife;

10:8    既然如此，夫妻不再是兩個人，乃是一體的了。
And they twain shall be one flesh: so then they are no more twain, but one flesh.

10:9    所以神配合的，人不可分開。
What therefore God hath joined together, let not man put asunder.

10:10    到了屋裡，門徒就問他這事。
And in the house his disciples asked him again of the same matter.

10:11    耶穌對他們說，凡休妻另娶的，就是犯奸淫，辜負他的妻子。
And he saith unto them, Whosoever shall put away his wife, and marry another, committeth adultery against her.

10:12    妻子若離棄丈夫另嫁，也是犯奸淫了。
And if a woman shall put away her husband, and be married to another, she committeth adultery.

10:13    有人帶著小孩子來見耶穌，要耶穌摸他們，門徒便責備那些人。
And they brought young children to him, that he should touch them: and his disciples rebuked those that brought them.

10:14    耶穌看見就惱怒，對門徒說，讓小孩到我這裡來，不要禁止他們。因為在神國的，正是這樣的人。
But when Jesus saw it, he was much displeased, and said unto them, Suffer the little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.

10:15    我實在告訴你們，凡要承受神國的，若不像小孩子，斷不能進去。
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child, he shall not enter therein.

10:16    於是抱著小孩子，給他們按手，為他們祝福。
And he took them up in his arms, put his hands upon them, and blessed them.

10:17    耶穌出來行路的時候，有一個人跑來，跪在他面前問他說，良善的夫子，我當作什麼事，才可以承受永生。
And when he was gone forth into the way, there came one running, and kneeled to him, and asked him, Good Master, what shall I do that I may inherit eternal life?

10:18    耶穌對他說，你為什麼稱我是良善的。除了神一位之外，再沒有良善的。
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? there is none good but one, that is, God.

10:19    誡命你是曉得的，不可殺人，不可姦淫，不可偷盜，不可作假見證，不可虧負人，當孝敬父母。
Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Defraud not, Honour thy father and mother.

10:20    他對耶穌說，夫子，這一切我從小都遵守了。
And he answered and said unto him, Master, all these have I observed from my youth.

10:21    耶穌看著他，就愛他，對他說，你還缺少一件。去變賣你所有的，分給窮人，就必有財寶在天上。你還要來跟從我。
Then Jesus beholding him loved him, and said unto him, One thing thou lackest: go thy way, sell whatsoever thou hast, and give to the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, take up the cross, and follow me.

10:22    他聽見這話，臉上就變了色，憂憂愁愁的走了。因為他的產業很多。
And he was sad at that saying, and went away grieved: for he had great possessions.

10:23    耶穌周圍一看，對門徒說，有錢財的人進神的國是何等的難哪。
And Jesus looked round about, and saith unto his disciples, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!

10:24    門徒希奇他的話。耶穌又對他們說，小子，倚靠錢財的人進神的國，是何等的難哪。
And the disciples were astonished at his words. But Jesus answereth again, and saith unto them, Children, how hard is it for them that trust in riches to enter into the kingdom of God!

10:25    駱駝穿過針的眼，比財主進神的國，還容易呢。
It is easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.

10:26    門徒就分外希奇，對他說，這樣誰能得救呢。
And they were astonished out of measure, saying among themselves, Who then can be saved?

10:27    耶穌看著他們說，在人是不能，在神卻不然。因為神凡事都能。
And Jesus looking upon them saith, With men it is impossible, but not with God: for with God all things are possible.

10:28    彼得就對他說，看哪，我們已經撇下所有的跟從你了。
Then Peter began to say unto him, Lo, we have left all, and have followed thee.

10:29    耶穌說，我實在告訴你們，人為我和福音，撇下房屋，或是弟兄，姐妹，父母，兒女，田地。
And Jesus answered and said, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or brethren, or sisters, or father, or mother, or wife, or children, or lands, for my sake, and the gospel's,

10:30    沒有不在今世得百倍的，就是房屋，弟兄，姐妹，母親，兒女，田地，並且要受逼迫。在來世必得永生。
But he shall receive an hundredfold now in this time, houses, and brethren, and sisters, and mothers, and children, and lands, with persecutions; and in the world to come eternal life.

10:31    然而有許多在前的將要在後，在後的將要在前。
But many that are first shall be last; and the last first.

10:32    他們行路上耶路撒冷去。耶穌在前頭走，門徒就希奇，跟從的人也害怕。耶穌又叫過十二個門徒來，把自己將要遭遇的事，告訴他們說，
And they were in the way going up to Jerusalem; and Jesus went before them: and they were amazed; and as they followed, they were afraid. And he took again the twelve, and began to tell them what things should happen unto him,

10:33    看哪，我們上耶路撒冷去，人子將要被交給祭司長和文士，他們要定他死罪，交給外邦人。
Saying, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem; and the Son of man shall be delivered unto the chief priests, and unto the scribes; and they shall condemn him to death, and shall deliver him to the Gentiles:

10:34    他們要戲弄他，吐唾抹在他臉上，鞭打他，殺害他。過了三天，他要復活。
And they shall mock him, and shall scourge him, and shall spit upon him, and shall kill him: and the third day he shall rise again.

10:35    西庇太的兒子雅各，約翰進前來，對耶穌說，夫子，我們無論求你什麼，願你給我們作。
And James and John, the sons of Zebedee, come unto him, saying, Master, we would that thou shouldest do for us whatsoever we shall desire.

10:36    耶穌說，要我給你們作什麼。
And he said unto them, What would ye that I should do for you?

10:37    他們說，賜我們在你的榮耀裡，一個坐在你右邊，一個坐在你左邊。
They said unto him, Grant unto us that we may sit, one on thy right hand, and the other on thy left hand, in thy glory.

10:38    耶穌說，你們不知道所求的是什麼。我所喝的杯。你們能喝嗎。我所受的洗，你們能受嗎。
But Jesus said unto them, Ye know not what ye ask: can ye drink of the cup that I drink of? and be baptized with the baptism that I am baptized with?

10:39    他們說，我們能。耶穌說，我所喝的杯，你們也要喝。我所受的洗，你們也要受。
And they said unto him, We can. And Jesus said unto them, Ye shall indeed drink of the cup that I drink of; and with the baptism that I am baptized withal shall ye be baptized:

10:40    只是坐在我的左右，不是我可以賜的。乃是為誰豫備的，就賜給誰。
But to sit on my right hand and on my left hand is not mine to give; but it shall be given to them for whom it is prepared.

10:41    那十個門徒聽見，就惱怒雅各，約翰。
And when the ten heard it, they began to be much displeased with James and John.

10:42    耶穌叫他們來，對他們說，你們知道，外邦人有尊為君王的，治理他們。有大臣操權管束他們。
But Jesus called them to him, and saith unto them, Ye know that they which are accounted to rule over the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and their great ones exercise authority upon them.

10:43    只是在你們中間，不是這樣。你們中間，誰願為大，就必作你們的用人。
But so shall it not be among you: but whosoever will be great among you, shall be your minister:

10:44    在你們中間，誰願為首，就必作眾人的僕人。
And whosoever of you will be the chiefest, shall be servant of all.

10:45    因為人子來，並不是要受人的服事，乃是要服事人，並且要捨命，作多人的贖價。
For even the Son of man came not to be ministered unto, but to minister, and to give his life a ransom for many.

10:46    到了耶利哥。耶穌同門徒並許多人出耶利哥的時候，有一個討飯的瞎子，是底買的兒子巴底買，坐在路旁。
And they came to Jericho: and as he went out of Jericho with his disciples and a great number of people, blind Bartimaeus, the son of Timaeus, sat by the highway side begging.

10:47    他聽見是拿撒勒的耶穌，就喊著說，大衛的子孫耶穌阿，可憐我吧。
And when he heard that it was Jesus of Nazareth, he began to cry out, and say, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.

10:48    有許多人責備他，不許他作聲，他卻越發大聲喊著說，大衛的子孫哪，可憐我吧。
And many charged him that he should hold his peace: but he cried the more a great deal, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.

10:49    耶穌就站住，說，叫他過來。他們就叫那瞎子，對他說，放心，起來，他叫你喇。
And Jesus stood still, and commanded him to be called. And they call the blind man, saying unto him, Be of good comfort, rise; he calleth thee.

10:50    瞎子就丟下衣服，跳起來，走到耶穌那裡。
And he, casting away his garment, rose, and came to Jesus.



10:51    耶穌說，要我為你作什麼。瞎子說，拉波尼，我要能看見。（拉波尼就是夫子）
And Jesus answered and said unto him, What wilt thou that I should do unto thee? The blind man said unto him, Lord, that I might receive my sight.

10:52    耶穌說，你去吧。你的信救了你了。瞎子立刻看見了，就在路上跟隨耶穌。
And Jesus said unto him, Go thy way; thy faith hath made thee whole. And immediately he received his sight, and followed Jesus in the way.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


11:1    耶穌和門徒將近耶路撒冷，到了伯法其和伯大尼，在橄欖山那裡。耶穌就打發兩個門徒，
And when they came nigh to Jerusalem, unto Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount of Olives, he sendeth forth two of his disciples,

11:2    對他們說，你們往對面村子裡去。一進去的時候，必看見一匹驢駒拴在那裡，是從來沒有人騎過的。可以解開牽來。
And saith unto them, Go your way into the village over against you: and as soon as ye be entered into it, ye shall find a colt tied, whereon never man sat; loose him, and bring him.

11:3    若有人對你們說，為什麼作這事。你們就說，主要用他。那人必立時讓你們牽來。
And if any man say unto you, Why do ye this? say ye that the Lord hath need of him; and straightway he will send him hither.

11:4    他們去了，便看見一匹驢駒，拴在門外街道上，就把他解開。
And they went their way, and found the colt tied by the door without in a place where two ways met; and they loose him.

11:5    在那裡站著的人，有幾個說，你們解驢駒作什麼。
And certain of them that stood there said unto them, What do ye, loosing the colt?

11:6    門徒照著耶穌所說的回答，那些人就任憑他們牽去了。
And they said unto them even as Jesus had commanded: and they let them go.

11:7    他們把驢駒牽到耶穌那裡，把自己的衣服搭在上面，耶穌就騎上。
And they brought the colt to Jesus, and cast their garments on him; and he sat upon him.

11:8    有許多人，把衣服鋪在路上，也有人把田間的樹枝砍下來，鋪在路上。
And many spread their garments in the way: and others cut down branches off the trees, and strawed them in the way.

11:9    前行後隨的人，都喊著說，和散那，（和散那原有求救的意思，在此乃是稱頌的話）奉主名來的，是應當稱頌的。
And they that went before, and they that followed, cried, saying, Hosanna; Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord:

11:10    那將要來的我祖大衛之國，是應當稱頌的。高高在上，和散那。
Blessed be the kingdom of our father David, that cometh in the name of the Lord: Hosanna in the highest.

11:11    耶穌進了耶路撒冷，入了聖殿，周圍看了各樣物件。天色已晚，就和十二個門徒出城往伯大尼去了。
And Jesus entered into Jerusalem, and into the temple: and when he had looked round about upon all things, and now the eventide was come, he went out unto Bethany with the twelve.

11:12    第二天，他們從伯大尼出來。耶穌餓了，
And on the morrow, when they were come from Bethany, he was hungry:

11:13    遠遠的看見一棵無花果樹，樹上有葉子，就往那裡去，或者在樹上可以找著什麼。到了樹下，竟找不著什麼，不過有葉子。因為不是收無花果的時候。
And seeing a fig tree afar off having leaves, he came, if haply he might find any thing thereon: and when he came to it, he found nothing but leaves; for the time of figs was not yet.

11:14    耶穌就樹說，從今以後，永沒有人吃你的果子。他的門徒也聽見了。
And Jesus answered and said unto it, No man eat fruit of thee hereafter for ever. And his disciples heard it.

11:15    他們來到耶路撒冷，耶穌進入聖殿，趕出殿裡作買賣的人，推倒兌換銀錢之人的桌子，和賣鴿子之人的凳子。
And they come to Jerusalem: and Jesus went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold and bought in the temple, and overthrew the tables of the moneychangers, and the seats of them that sold doves;

11:16    也不許人拿著器具從殿裡經過。
And would not suffer that any man should carry any vessel through the temple.

11:17    便教訓他們說，經上不是記著說，我的殿必稱為萬國禱告的殿嗎。你們倒使他成為賊窩了。
And he taught, saying unto them, Is it not written, My house shall be called of all nations the house of prayer? but ye have made it a den of thieves.

11:18    祭司長和文士聽見這話就想法子要除滅耶穌。卻又怕他，因為眾人都希奇他的教訓。
And the scribes and chief priests heard it, and sought how they might destroy him: for they feared him, because all the people was astonished at his doctrine.

11:19    每天晚上，耶穌出城去。
And when even was come, he went out of the city.

11:20    早晨，他們從那裡經過，看見無花果樹連根都枯乾了。
And in the morning, as they passed by, they saw the fig tree dried up from the roots.

11:21    彼得想起耶穌的話來，就對他說，拉比，請看，你所咒詛的無花果樹，已經枯乾了。
And Peter calling to remembrance saith unto him, Master, behold, the fig tree which thou cursedst is withered away.

11:22    耶穌回答說，你們當信服神。
And Jesus answering saith unto them, Have faith in God.

11:23    我實在告訴你們，無論何人對這座山說，你挪開此地投在海里。他心裡若不疑惑，只信他所說的必成，就必給他成了。
For verily I say unto you, That whosoever shall say unto this mountain, Be thou removed, and be thou cast into the sea; and shall not doubt in his heart, but shall believe that those things which he saith shall come to pass; he shall have whatsoever he saith.

11:24    所以我告訴你們，凡你們禱告祈求的，無論是什麼，只要信是得著的，就必得著。
Therefore I say unto you, What things soever ye desire, when ye pray, believe that ye receive them, and ye shall have them.

11:25    你們站著禱告的時候，若想起有人得罪你們，就當饒恕他，好叫你們在天上的父，也饒恕你們的過犯。
And when ye stand praying, forgive, if ye have ought against any: that your Father also which is in heaven may forgive you your trespasses.

11:26    你們若不饒恕人，你們在天上的父，也不饒恕你們的過犯。（有古卷無此節）
But if ye do not forgive, neither will your Father which is in heaven forgive your trespasses.

11:27    他們又來到耶路撒冷。耶穌在殿裡行走的時候，祭司長和文士並長老進前來，
And they come again to Jerusalem: and as he was walking in the temple, there come to him the chief priests, and the scribes, and the elders,

11:28    問他說，你仗著什麼權柄作這些事，給你這權柄的是誰呢。
And say unto him, By what authority doest thou these things? and who gave thee this authority to do these things?

11:29    耶穌對他們說，我要問你們一句話，你們回答我，我就告訴你們，我仗著什麼權柄作這事。
And Jesus answered and said unto them, I will also ask of you one question, and answer me, and I will tell you by what authority I do these things.

11:30    約翰的洗禮，是從天上來的是從人間來的呢。你們可以回答我。
The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men? answer me.

11:31    他們彼此商論說，我們若說從天上來，他必說，這樣，你們為什麼不信他呢。
And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then did ye not believe him?

11:32    若說從人間來，卻又怕百姓。因為眾人真以約翰為先知。
But if we shall say, Of men; they feared the people: for all men counted John, that he was a prophet indeed.

11:33    於是回答耶穌說，我們不知道。耶穌說，我也不告訴你們，我仗著什麼權柄作這事。
And they answered and said unto Jesus, We cannot tell. And Jesus answering saith unto them, Neither do I tell you by what authority I do these things.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


12:1    耶穌就用比喻對他們說，有人栽了一個葡萄園，周圍圈上籬笆，挖了一個壓酒池，蓋了一座樓，租給園戶，就往國外去了。
And he began to speak unto them by parables. A certain man planted a vineyard, and set an hedge about it, and digged a place for the winefat, and built a tower, and let it out to husbandmen, and went into a far country.

12:2    到了時候，打發一個僕人到園戶那裡，要從園戶收葡萄園的果子。
And at the season he sent to the husbandmen a servant, that he might receive from the husbandmen of the fruit of the vineyard.

12:3    園戶拿住他，打了他，叫他空手回去。
And they caught him, and beat him, and sent him away empty.

12:4    再打發一個僕人到他們那裡。他們打傷他的頭，並且凌辱他。
And again he sent unto them another servant; and at him they cast stones, and wounded him in the head, and sent him away shamefully handled.

12:5    又打發一個僕人去。他們就殺了他。後又打發好些僕人去。有被他們打的，有被他們殺的。
And again he sent another; and him they killed, and many others; beating some, and killing some.

12:6    園主還有一位，是他的愛子，末後又打發他去，意思說，他們必尊敬我的兒子。
Having yet therefore one son, his wellbeloved, he sent him also last unto them, saying, They will reverence my son.

12:7    不料，那些園戶彼此說，這是承受產業的。來吧，我們殺他，產業就歸我們了。
But those husbandmen said among themselves, This is the heir; come, let us kill him, and the inheritance shall be our's.

12:8    於是拿住他，殺了他，把他丟在園外。
And they took him, and killed him, and cast him out of the vineyard.

12:9    這樣，葡萄園的主人要怎樣辦呢。他要來除滅那些園戶，將葡萄園轉給別人。
What shall therefore the lord of the vineyard do? he will come and destroy the husbandmen, and will give the vineyard unto others.

12:10    經上寫著說匠人所棄的石頭，已作了房角的頭塊石頭。
And have ye not read this scripture; The stone which the builders rejected is become the head of the corner:

12:11    這是主所作的，在我們眼中看為希奇。這經你們沒有念過嗎。
This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvellous in our eyes?

12:12    他們看出這比喻是指著他們說的，就想要捉拿他，只是懼怕百姓。於是離開他走了。
And they sought to lay hold on him, but feared the people: for they knew that he had spoken the parable against them: and they left him, and went their way.

12:13    後來他們打發幾個法利賽人和幾個希律黨的人，到耶穌那裡，要就著他的話陷害他。
And they send unto him certain of the Pharisees and of the Herodians, to catch him in his words.

12:14    他們來了，就對他說，夫子，我們知道你是誠實的，什麼人你都不徇情。因為你不看人的外貌，乃是誠誠實實傳神的道。納稅給凱撒可以不可以。
And when they were come, they say unto him, Master, we know that thou art true, and carest for no man: for thou regardest not the person of men, but teachest the way of God in truth: Is it lawful to give tribute to Caesar, or not?

12:15    我們該納不該納。耶穌知道他們的假意，就對他們說，你們為什麼試探我。拿一個銀錢來給我看。
Shall we give, or shall we not give? But he, knowing their hypocrisy, said unto them, Why tempt ye me? bring me a penny, that I may see it.

12:16    他們就拿了來。耶穌說，這像和這號是誰的。他們說，是凱撒的。
And they brought it. And he saith unto them, Whose is this image and superscription? And they said unto him, Caesar's.

12:17    耶穌說，凱撒的物當歸給凱撒，神的物當歸給神。他們就很希奇他。
And Jesus answering said unto them, Render to Caesar the things that are Caesar's, and to God the things that are God's. And they marvelled at him.

12:18    撒都該人常說，沒有復活的事。他們來問耶穌說，
Then come unto him the Sadducees, which say there is no resurrection; and they asked him, saying,

12:19    夫子，摩西為我們寫著說，人若死了，撇下妻子，沒有孩子，他兄弟當娶他的妻，為哥哥生子立後。
Master, Moses wrote unto us, If a man's brother die, and leave his wife behind him, and leave no children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.

12:20    有弟兄七人，第一個娶了妻，死了，沒有留下孩子。
Now there were seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and dying left no seed.

12:21    第二個娶了他，也死了，沒有留下孩子。第三個也是這樣。
And the second took her, and died, neither left he any seed: and the third likewise.

12:22    那七個人都沒有留下孩子。末了，那婦人也死了。
And the seven had her, and left no seed: last of all the woman died also.

12:23    當復活的時候，他是那一個的妻子呢。因為他們七個人都娶過他。
In the resurrection therefore, when they shall rise, whose wife shall she be of them? for the seven had her to wife.

12:24    耶穌說，你們所以錯了，豈不是因為不明白聖經，不曉得神的大能嗎。
And Jesus answering said unto them, Do ye not therefore err, because ye know not the scriptures, neither the power of God?

12:25    人從死裡復活，也不娶，也不嫁，乃像天上的使者一樣。
For when they shall rise from the dead, they neither marry, nor are given in marriage; but are as the angels which are in heaven.

12:26    論到死人復活，你們沒有念過摩西的書，荊棘篇上所載的嗎神對摩西說，我是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神。
And as touching the dead, that they rise: have ye not read in the book of Moses, how in the bush God spake unto him, saying, I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob?

12:27    神不是死人的神，乃是活人的神。你們是大錯了。
He is not the God of the dead, but the God of the living: ye therefore do greatly err.

12:28    有一個文士來，聽見他們辯論，曉得耶穌回答的好，就問他說，誡命中那是第一要緊的呢
And one of the scribes came, and having heard them reasoning together, and perceiving that he had answered them well, asked him, Which is the first commandment of all?

12:29    耶穌回答說，第一要緊的，就是說，以色列阿，你要聽。主我們神，是獨一的主。
And Jesus answered him, The first of all the commandments is, Hear, O Israel; The Lord our God is one Lord:

12:30    你要盡心，儘性，盡意，盡力，愛主你的神。
And thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy mind, and with all thy strength: this is the first commandment.

12:31    其次，就是說，要愛人如己。再沒有比這兩條誡命更大的了。
And the second is like, namely this, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself. There is none other commandment greater than these.

12:32    那文士對耶穌說，夫子說，神是一位，實在不錯。除了他以外，再沒有別的神。
And the scribe said unto him, Well, Master, thou hast said the truth: for there is one God; and there is none other but he:

12:33    並且盡心，盡智，盡力，愛他，又愛人如己，就比一切燔祭，和各樣祭祀，好的多。
And to love him with all the heart, and with all the understanding, and with all the soul, and with all the strength, and to love his neighbour as himself, is more than all whole burnt offerings and sacrifices.

12:34    耶穌見他回答的有智慧，就對他說，你離神的國不遠了。從此以後，沒有人敢再問他什麼。
And when Jesus saw that he answered discreetly, he said unto him, Thou art not far from the kingdom of God. And no man after that durst ask him any question.

12:35    耶穌在殿裡教訓人，就問他們說，文士怎樣說，基督是大衛的子孫呢。
And Jesus answered and said, while he taught in the temple, How say the scribes that Christ is the son of David?

12:36    大衛被聖靈感動說，主對我主說，你坐在我的右邊，等我使你的仇敵作你的腳凳。
For David himself said by the Holy Ghost, The LORD said to my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand, till I make thine enemies thy footstool.

12:37    大衛既自己稱他為主，他怎嗎又是大衛的子孫呢。眾人都喜歡聽他。
David therefore himself calleth him Lord; and whence is he then his son? And the common people heard him gladly.

12:38    耶穌在教訓之間，說，你們要防備文士，他們好穿長衣遊行，喜愛人在街市上問他們的安，
And he said unto them in his doctrine, Beware of the scribes, which love to go in long clothing, and love salutations in the marketplaces,

12:39    又喜愛會堂裡的高位筵席上的首座。
And the chief seats in the synagogues, and the uppermost rooms at feasts:

12:40    他們侵吞寡婦的家產，假意作很長的禱告。這些人要受更重的刑罰。
Which devour widows' houses, and for a pretence make long prayers: these shall receive greater damnation.

12:41    耶穌對銀庫坐著，看眾人怎樣投錢入庫。有好些財主，往裡投了若干的錢。
And Jesus sat over against the treasury, and beheld how the people cast money into the treasury: and many that were rich cast in much.

12:42    有一個窮寡婦來，往裡投了兩個小錢，就是一個大錢。
And there came a certain poor widow, and she threw in two mites, which make a farthing.

12:43    耶穌叫門徒來，說，我實在告訴你們，這窮寡婦投入庫裡的，比眾人所投的更多。
And he called unto him his disciples, and saith unto them, Verily I say unto you, That this poor widow hath cast more in, than all they which have cast into the treasury:

12:44    因為他們都是自己有餘，拿出來投在裡頭。但這寡婦是自己不足，把他一切養生的都投上了。
For all they did cast in of their abundance; but she of her want did cast in all that she had, even all her living.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


13:1    耶穌從殿裡出來的時候，有一個門徒對他說，夫子，請看，這是何等的石頭，何等的殿宇。
And as he went out of the temple, one of his disciples saith unto him, Master, see what manner of stones and what buildings are here!

13:2    耶穌對他說，你看見這大殿宇嗎。將來在這裡沒有一塊石頭留在石頭上，不被拆毀了。
And Jesus answering said unto him, Seest thou these great buildings? there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.

13:3    耶穌在橄欖山上對聖殿而坐。彼得，雅各，約翰，和安得烈，暗暗的問他說，
And as he sat upon the mount of Olives over against the temple, Peter and James and John and Andrew asked him privately,

13:4    請告訴我們，什麼時候有這些事呢。這一切事，將成的時候，有什麼豫兆呢。
Tell us, when shall these things be? and what shall be the sign when all these things shall be fulfilled?

13:5    耶穌說，你們要謹慎，免得有人迷惑你們。
And Jesus answering them began to say, Take heed lest any man deceive you:

13:6    將來有好些人冒我的名來，說，我是基督。並且要迷惑許多人。
For many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and shall deceive many.

13:7    你們聽見打仗，和打仗的風聲，不要驚慌。這些事是必須有的，只是末期還沒有到。
And when ye shall hear of wars and rumours of wars, be ye not troubled: for such things must needs be; but the end shall not be yet.

13:8    民要攻打民，國要攻打國，多處必有地震，饑荒。這都是災難的起頭。（災難原文作生產之苦）
For nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom: and there shall be earthquakes in divers places, and there shall be famines and troubles: these are the beginnings of sorrows.

13:9    但你們要謹慎。因為人要把你們交給公會，並且你們在會堂裡要受鞭打。又為我的緣故，站在諸侯與君王面前，對他們作見證。
But take heed to yourselves: for they shall deliver you up to councils; and in the synagogues ye shall be beaten: and ye shall be brought before rulers and kings for my sake, for a testimony against them.

13:10    然而福音必須先傳給萬民。
And the gospel must first be published among all nations.

13:11    人把你們拉去交官的時候，不要豫先思慮說什麼。到那時候，賜給你們什麼話，你們就說什麼，因為說話的不是你們，乃是聖靈。
But when they shall lead you, and deliver you up, take no thought beforehand what ye shall speak, neither do ye premeditate: but whatsoever shall be given you in that hour, that speak ye: for it is not ye that speak, but the Holy Ghost.

13:12    弟兄要把弟兄，父親要把兒子，送到死地。兒女要起來與父母為敵，害死他們。
Now the brother shall betray the brother to death, and the father the son; and children shall rise up against their parents, and shall cause them to be put to death.

13:13    並且你們要為我的名，被眾人恨惡，惟有忍耐到底的，必然得救。
And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake: but he that shall endure unto the end, the same shall be saved.

13:14    你們看見那行毀壞可憎的，站在不當站的地方。（讀這經的人，須要會意）那時在猶太的，應當逃到山上。
But when ye shall see the abomination of desolation, spoken of by Daniel the prophet, standing where it ought not, (let him that readeth understand,) then let them that be in Judaea flee to the mountains:

13:15    在房上的，不要下來，也不要進去拿家裡的東西。
And let him that is on the housetop not go down into the house, neither enter therein, to take any thing out of his house:

13:16    在田裡的，也不要回去取衣裳。
And let him that is in the field not turn back again for to take up his garment.

13:17    當那些日子，懷孕的和奶孩子的有禍了。
But woe to them that are with child, and to them that give suck in those days!

13:18    你們應當祈求，叫這些事不在冬天臨到。
And pray ye that your flight be not in the winter.

13:19    因為在那些日子必有災難，自從）神創造萬物直到如今，並沒有這樣的災難。後來也必沒有。
For in those days shall be affliction, such as was not from the beginning of the creation which God created unto this time, neither shall be.

13:20    若不是主減少那日子，凡有血氣的，總沒有一個得救的。只是為主的選民，他將那日子減少了。
And except that the Lord had shortened those days, no flesh should be saved: but for the elect's sake, whom he hath chosen, he hath shortened the days.

13:21    那時若有人對你們說，看哪，基督在這裡。或說，基督在那裡。你們不要信。
And then if any man shall say to you, Lo, here is Christ; or, lo, he is there; believe him not:

13:22    因為假基督，假先知，將要起來，顯神蹟奇事。倘若能行，就把選民迷惑了。
For false Christs and false prophets shall rise, and shall shew signs and wonders, to seduce, if it were possible, even the elect.

13:23    你們要謹慎。看哪，凡事我都豫先告訴你們了。
But take ye heed: behold, I have foretold you all things.

13:24    在那些日子，那災難以後，日頭要變黑了，月亮也不放光，
But in those days, after that tribulation, the sun shall be darkened, and the moon shall not give her light,

13:25    眾星要從天上墜落，天勢都要震動。
And the stars of heaven shall fall, and the powers that are in heaven shall be shaken.

13:26    那時他們（馬太二十四章三十節作地上的萬族）要看見人子有大能力，大榮耀，駕雲降臨。
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in the clouds with great power and glory.

13:27    他要差遣天使，把他的選民，從四方，從地極直到天邊，都招聚了來。（方原文作風）
And then shall he send his angels, and shall gather together his elect from the four winds, from the uttermost part of the earth to the uttermost part of heaven.

13:28    你們可以從無花果樹學個比方。當樹枝發嫩長葉的時候，你們就知道夏天近了。
Now learn a parable of the fig tree; When her branch is yet tender, and putteth forth leaves, ye know that summer is near:

13:29    這樣，你們幾時看見這些事成就，也該知道人子近了，（人子或作神的國）正在門口了。
So ye in like manner, when ye shall see these things come to pass, know that it is nigh, even at the doors.

13:30    我實在告訴你們，這世代還沒有過去，這些事都要成就。
Verily I say unto you, that this generation shall not pass, till all these things be done.

13:31    天地要廢去。我的話卻不能廢去。
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.

13:32    但那日子，那時辰，沒有人知道，連天上的使者也不知道，子也不知道，惟有父知道。
But of that day and that hour knoweth no man, no, not the angels which are in heaven, neither the Son, but the Father.



13:33    你們要謹慎，儆醒祈禱，因為你們不曉得那日期幾時來到。
Take ye heed, watch and pray: for ye know not when the time is.

13:34    這事正如一個人離開本家，寄居外邦，把權柄交給僕人，分派各人當作的工，又吩咐看門的儆醒。
For the Son of man is as a man taking a far journey, who left his house, and gave authority to his servants, and to every man his work, and commanded the porter to watch.

13:35    所以你們要儆醒，因為你們不知道家主什麼時候來，或晚上，或半夜，或雞叫，或早晨。
Watch ye therefore: for ye know not when the master of the house cometh, at even, or at midnight, or at the cockcrowing, or in the morning:

13:36    恐怕他忽然來到，看見你們睡著了。
Lest coming suddenly he find you sleeping.

13:37    我對你們所說的話，也是對眾人說，要儆醒。
And what I say unto you I say unto all, Watch.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


14:1    過兩天是逾越節，又是除酵節。祭司長和文士，想法子怎嗎用詭計捉拿耶穌殺他。
After two days was the feast of the passover, and of unleavened bread: and the chief priests and the scribes sought how they might take him by craft, and put him to death.

14:2    只是說，當節的日子不可，恐怕百姓生亂。
But they said, Not on the feast day, lest there be an uproar of the people.

14:3    耶穌在伯大尼長大麻瘋的西門家裡坐席的時候，有一個女人，拿著一玉瓶至貴的真哪噠香膏來，打破玉瓶，把香膏澆在耶穌的頭上。
And being in Bethany in the house of Simon the leper, as he sat at meat, there came a woman having an alabaster box of ointment of spikenard very precious; and she brake the box, and poured it on his head.

14:4    有幾個人心中很不喜悅，說，何用這樣枉費香膏呢。
And there were some that had indignation within themselves, and said, Why was this waste of the ointment made?

14:5    這香膏可以賣三十多兩銀子賙濟窮人。他們就向那女人生氣。
For it might have been sold for more than three hundred pence, and have been given to the poor. And they murmured against her.

14:6    耶穌說，由他吧。為什麼難為他呢。他在我身上作的是一件美事。
And Jesus said, Let her alone; why trouble ye her? she hath wrought a good work on me.

14:7    因為常有窮人和你們同在，要向他們行善，隨時都可以。只是你們不常有我。
For ye have the poor with you always, and whensoever ye will ye may do them good: but me ye have not always.

14:8    他所作的，是盡他所能的。他是為我安葬的事，把香膏豫先澆在我身上。
She hath done what she could: she is come aforehand to anoint my body to the burying.

14:9    我實在告訴你們，普天之下，無論在什麼地方傳這福音，也要述說這女人所作的以為記念。
Verily I say unto you, Wheresoever this gospel shall be preached throughout the whole world, this also that she hath done shall be spoken of for a memorial of her.

14:10    十二門徒之中有一個加略人猶大，去見祭司長，要把耶穌交給他們。
And Judas Iscariot, one of the twelve, went unto the chief priests, to betray him unto them.

14:11    他們聽見就歡喜，又應許給他銀子。他就尋思如何得便，把耶穌交給他們。
And when they heard it, they were glad, and promised to give him money. And he sought how he might conveniently betray him.

14:12    除酵節的第一天，就是宰逾越節羊羔的那一天，門徒對耶穌說，你吃逾越節的筵席，要我們往那裡去豫備呢。
And the first day of unleavened bread, when they killed the passover, his disciples said unto him, Where wilt thou that we go and prepare that thou mayest eat the passover?

14:13    耶穌就打發兩個門徒，對他們說，你們進城去，必有人拿著一瓶水，迎面而來。你們就跟著他。
And he sendeth forth two of his disciples, and saith unto them, Go ye into the city, and there shall meet you a man bearing a pitcher of water: follow him.

14:14    他進那家去，你們就對那家的主人說，夫子說，客房在那裡，我與門徒好在那裡吃逾越節的筵席。
And wheresoever he shall go in, say ye to the goodman of the house, The Master saith, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?

14:15    他必指給你們擺設整齊的一間大樓，你們就在那裡為我們豫備。
And he will shew you a large upper room furnished and prepared: there make ready for us.

14:16    門徒出去，進了城，所遇見的，正如耶穌所說的。他們就豫備了逾越節的筵席
And his disciples went forth, and came into the city, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.

14:17    到了晚上，耶穌和十二個門徒都來了。
And in the evening he cometh with the twelve.

14:18    他們坐席正吃的時候，耶穌說，我實在告訴你們，你們中間有一個與我同吃的人要賣我了。
And as they sat and did eat, Jesus said, Verily I say unto you, One of you which eateth with me shall betray me.



14:19    他們就憂愁起來，一個一個的問他說，是我嗎。
And they began to be sorrowful, and to say unto him one by one, Is it I? and another said, Is it I?

14:20    耶穌對他們說，是十二個門徒同我蘸手在盤子裡的那個人。
And he answered and said unto them, It is one of the twelve, that dippeth with me in the dish.

14:21    人子必要去世，正如經上指著他所寫的。但賣人子的人有禍了，那人不生在世上倒好。
The Son of man indeed goeth, as it is written of him: but woe to that man by whom the Son of man is betrayed! good were it for that man if he had never been born.

14:22    他們吃的時候，耶穌拿起餅來，祝了福，就擘開遞給他們說，你們拿著吃。這是我的身體。
And as they did eat, Jesus took bread, and blessed, and brake it, and gave to them, and said, Take, eat: this is my body.

14:23    又拿起杯來，祝謝了，遞給他們。他們都喝了。
And he took the cup, and when he had given thanks, he gave it to them: and they all drank of it.

14:24    耶穌說，這是我立約的血，為多人流出來的。
And he said unto them, This is my blood of the new testament, which is shed for many.

14:25    我實在告訴你們，我不再喝這葡萄汁，直到我在神的國裡，喝新的那日子。
Verily I say unto you, I will drink no more of the fruit of the vine, until that day that I drink it new in the kingdom of God.

14:26    他們唱了詩，就出來，往橄欖山去。
And when they had sung an hymn, they went out into the mount of Olives.

14:27    耶穌對他們說，你們都要跌倒了。因為經上記著說，我要擊打牧人，羊就分散了。
And Jesus saith unto them, All ye shall be offended because of me this night: for it is written, I will smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered.

14:28    但我復活以後，要在你們以先往加利利去。
But after that I am risen, I will go before you into Galilee.

14:29    彼得說，眾人隨然跌倒，我總不能。
But Peter said unto him, Although all shall be offended, yet will not I.

14:30    耶穌對他說，我實在告訴你，就在今天夜裡，雞叫兩遍以先，你要三次不認我。
And Jesus saith unto him, Verily I say unto thee, That this day, even in this night, before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice.

14:31    彼得卻極力的說，我就是必須和你同死，也總不能不認你。眾門徒都是這樣說。
But he spake the more vehemently, If I should die with thee, I will not deny thee in any wise. Likewise also said they all.

14:32    他們來到一個地方，名叫客西馬尼。耶穌對門徒說，你們坐在這裡，等我禱告。
And they came to a place which was named Gethsemane: and he saith to his disciples, Sit ye here, while I shall pray.

14:33    於是帶著彼得，雅各，約翰同去，就驚恐起來，極其難過。
And he taketh with him Peter and James and John, and began to be sore amazed, and to be very heavy;

14:34    對他們說，我心裡甚是憂傷，幾乎要死。你們在這裡，等候儆醒。
And saith unto them, My soul is exceeding sorrowful unto death: tarry ye here, and watch.

14:35    他就稍往前走，俯伏在地禱告說，倘若可行，便叫那時候過去。
And he went forward a little, and fell on the ground, and prayed that, if it were possible, the hour might pass from him.

14:36    他說，阿爸，父阿，在你凡事都能。求你將這杯撤去。然而不要從我的意思，只要從你的意思。
And he said, Abba, Father, all things are possible unto thee; take away this cup from me: nevertheless not what I will, but what thou wilt.

14:37    耶穌回來，見他們睡著了，就對彼得說，西門，你睡覺嗎，不能儆醒片時嗎。
And he cometh, and findeth them sleeping, and saith unto Peter, Simon, sleepest thou? couldest not thou watch one hour?

14:38    總要儆醒禱告，免得入了迷惑。你們心靈固然願意，肉體卻軟弱了。
Watch ye and pray, lest ye enter into temptation. The spirit truly is ready, but the flesh is weak.

14:39    耶穌又去禱告，說的話還是與先前一樣。
And again he went away, and prayed, and spake the same words.

14:40    又來見他們睡著了，因為他們的眼睛甚是睏倦。他們也不知道怎嗎回答。
And when he returned, he found them asleep again, (for their eyes were heavy,) neither wist they what to answer him.

14:41    第三次來，對他們說，現在你們仍然睡覺安歇吧。（吧或作嗎）夠了，時候到了。看哪，人子被賣在罪人手裡了。
And he cometh the third time, and saith unto them, Sleep on now, and take your rest: it is enough, the hour is come; behold, the Son of man is betrayed into the hands of sinners.

14:42    起來，我們走吧。看哪，那賣我的人近了。
Rise up, let us go; lo, he that betrayeth me is at hand.

14:43    說話之間，忽然那十二個門徒裡的猶大來了，並有許多人帶著刀棒，從祭司長和文士並長老那裡與他同來。
And immediately, while he yet spake, cometh Judas, one of the twelve, and with him a great multitude with swords and staves, from the chief priests and the scribes and the elders.

14:44    賣耶穌的人曾給他們一個暗號，說，我與誰親嘴，誰就是他。你們把他拿住，牢牢靠靠的帶去。
And he that betrayed him had given them a token, saying, Whomsoever I shall kiss, that same is he; take him, and lead him away safely.

14:45    猶大來了，隨既到耶穌跟前說，拉比，便與他親嘴。
And as soon as he was come, he goeth straightway to him, and saith, Master, master; and kissed him.

14:46    他們就下手拿住他。
And they laid their hands on him, and took him.

14:47    旁邊站著的人，有一個拔出刀來，將大祭司的僕人砍了一刀，削掉了他一個耳朵。
And one of them that stood by drew a sword, and smote a servant of the high priest, and cut off his ear.

14:48    耶穌對他們說，你們帶著刀棒，出來拿我，如同拿強盜嗎。
And Jesus answered and said unto them, Are ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and with staves to take me?

14:49    我天天教訓人，同你們在殿裡，你們並沒有拿我。但這事成就，為要應驗經上的話。
I was daily with you in the temple teaching, and ye took me not: but the scriptures must be fulfilled.

14:50    門徒都離開他逃走了。
And they all forsook him, and fled.

14:51    有一個少年人，赤身披著一塊麻布，跟隨耶穌，眾人就捉拿他。
And there followed him a certain young man, having a linen cloth cast about his naked body; and the young men laid hold on him:

14:52    他卻丟了麻布，赤身逃走了。
And he left the linen cloth, and fled from them naked.

14:53    他們把耶穌帶到大祭司那裡。又有眾祭司長和長老並文士，都來和大祭司一同聚集。
And they led Jesus away to the high priest: and with him were assembled all the chief priests and the elders and the scribes.

14:54    彼得遠遠的跟著耶穌，一直進入大祭司的院裡，和差役一同坐在火光裡烤火。
And Peter followed him afar off, even into the palace of the high priest: and he sat with the servants, and warmed himself at the fire.

14:55    祭司和全公會尋梢見證控告耶穌，要治死他。卻尋不著。
And the chief priests and all the council sought for witness against Jesus to put him to death; and found none.

14:56    因為有好些人作假見證告他，只是他們的見證，各不相和。
For many bare false witness against him, but their witness agreed not together.

14:57    又有幾個人站起來，作假見證告他說，
And there arose certain, and bare false witness against him, saying,

14:58    我們聽見他說，我要拆毀這人手所造的殿，三日內就另造一座不是人手所造的。
We heard him say, I will destroy this temple that is made with hands, and within three days I will build another made without hands.

14:59    他們就這樣作見證，也是各不相合。
But neither so did their witness agree together.

14:60    大祭司起來，站在中間，問耶穌說，你什麼都不回答嗎。這些人作見證告你的是什麼呢。
And the high priest stood up in the midst, and asked Jesus, saying, Answerest thou nothing? what is it which these witness against thee?

14:61    耶穌卻不言語，一句也不回答。大祭司又問他說，你是那當稱頌者的兒子基督不是。
But he held his peace, and answered nothing. Again the high priest asked him, and said unto him, Art thou the Christ, the Son of the Blessed?

14:62    耶穌說，我是。你們必看見人子，坐在那權能者的右邊，駕著天上的雲降臨。
And Jesus said, I am: and ye shall see the Son of man sitting on the right hand of power, and coming in the clouds of heaven.

14:63    大祭司就撕開衣服，說，我們何必再用見證人呢。
Then the high priest rent his clothes, and saith, What need we any further witnesses?

14:64    你們已經聽見他這僭妄的話了。你們的意見如何。他們都定他該死的罪。
Ye have heard the blasphemy: what think ye? And they all condemned him to be guilty of death.

14:65    就有人吐唾沫在他臉上，又蒙著他的臉，用拳頭打他，對他說，你說預言吧。差役接過他來用手掌打他。
And some began to spit on him, and to cover his face, and to buffet him, and to say unto him, Prophesy: and the servants did strike him with the palms of their hands.

14:66    彼得在下邊，院子裡，來了大祭司的一個使女。
And as Peter was beneath in the palace, there cometh one of the maids of the high priest:

14:67    見彼得烤火，就看著他說，你素來也是同拿撒勒人耶穌一夥的。
And when she saw Peter warming himself, she looked upon him, and said, And thou also wast with Jesus of Nazareth.

14:68    彼得卻不承認，說，我不知道，也不明白你說的是什麼。於是出來，到了前院。雞就叫了。
But he denied, saying, I know not, neither understand I what thou sayest. And he went out into the porch; and the cock crew.

14:69    那使女看見他，又對旁邊站著的人說，這也是他們一黨的。
And a maid saw him again, and began to say to them that stood by, This is one of them.

14:70    彼得又不承認。過了不多的時候，旁邊站著的人又對彼得說，你真是他們一黨的。因為你是加利利人。
And he denied it again. And a little after, they that stood by said again to Peter, Surely thou art one of them: for thou art a Galilaean, and thy speech agreeth thereto.

14:71    彼得就發咒起誓的說，我不認得你們說的這個人。
But he began to curse and to swear, saying, I know not this man of whom ye speak.

14:72    立時雞叫了第二遍。彼得想起耶穌對他所說的話，雞叫兩遍以先，你要三次不認我。思想起來，就哭了。
And the second time the cock crew. And Peter called to mind the word that Jesus said unto him, Before the cock crow twice, thou shalt deny me thrice. And when he thought thereon, he wept.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


15:1    一到早晨，祭司長和長老文士全公會的人大家商議，就把耶穌捆綁解去，交給彼拉多。
And straightway in the morning the chief priests held a consultation with the elders and scribes and the whole council, and bound Jesus, and carried him away, and delivered him to Pilate.

15:2    彼拉多問他說，你是猶太人的王嗎。耶穌回答說，你說的是。
And Pilate asked him, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answering said unto him, Thou sayest it.

15:3    祭司長告他許多的事。
And the chief priests accused him of many things: but he answered nothing.

15:4    彼拉多又問他說，你看，他們告你這嗎多的事，你什麼都不回答嗎。
And Pilate asked him again, saying, Answerest thou nothing? behold how many things they witness against thee.

15:5    耶穌仍不回答，以致彼拉多覺得希奇。
But Jesus yet answered nothing; so that Pilate marvelled.

15:6    每逢這節期，巡撫照眾人所求的，釋放一個囚犯給他們。
Now at that feast he released unto them one prisoner, whomsoever they desired.

15:7    有一個人名叫巴拉巴，和作亂的人一同捆綁。他們作亂的時後，曾殺過人。
And there was one named Barabbas, which lay bound with them that had made insurrection with him, who had committed murder in the insurrection.

15:8    眾人上去求巡撫，照常例給他們辦。
And the multitude crying aloud began to desire him to do as he had ever done unto them.

15:9    彼拉多說，你們要我釋放猶太人的王給你們嗎。
But Pilate answered them, saying, Will ye that I release unto you the King of the Jews?

15:10    他原曉得祭司長是因為嫉妒才把耶穌解了來。
For he knew that the chief priests had delivered him for envy.

15:11    只是祭司長挑唆眾人，寧可釋放巴拉巴給他們。
But the chief priests moved the people, that he should rather release Barabbas unto them.

15:12    彼拉多又說，那嗎樣你們所稱為猶太人的王，我怎嗎辦他呢。
And Pilate answered and said again unto them, What will ye then that I shall do unto him whom ye call the King of the Jews?

15:13    他們又喊著說，把他釘十字架。
And they cried out again, Crucify him.

15:14    彼拉多說，為什麼呢，他作了什麼惡事呢。他們便極力的喊著說，把他釘十字架。
Then Pilate said unto them, Why, what evil hath he done? And they cried out the more exceedingly, Crucify him.

15:15    彼拉多要叫眾人喜悅，就釋放巴拉巴給他們，將耶穌鞭打了，交給人釘十字架。
And so Pilate, willing to content the people, released Barabbas unto them, and delivered Jesus, when he had scourged him, to be crucified.

15:16    兵丁把耶穌帶進衙門院裡。叫齊了全營的兵。
And the soldiers led him away into the hall, called Praetorium; and they call together the whole band.

15:17    他們給他穿上紫袍，又用荊棘編作冠冕給他戴上。
And they clothed him with purple, and platted a crown of thorns, and put it about his head,

15:18    就厭賀他說，恭喜猶太人的王阿。
And began to salute him, Hail, King of the Jews!

15:19    又拿一根葦子，打他的頭，吐唾沫在他臉上屈膝拜他。
And they smote him on the head with a reed, and did spit upon him, and bowing their knees worshipped him.

15:20    戲弄完了，就給他脫了紫袍，仍穿上他自己的衣服，帶他出去，要釘十字架。
And when they had mocked him, they took off the purple from him, and put his own clothes on him, and led him out to crucify him.

15:21    有一個古利奈人西門，就是亞歷山大和魯孚的父親，從鄉下來，經過那地方。他們就勉強他同去，好揹著耶穌的十字架。
And they compel one Simon a Cyrenian, who passed by, coming out of the country, the father of Alexander and Rufus, to bear his cross.

15:22    他們帶耶穌到了各各他地方，（各各他翻出來，就是髑髏地）
And they bring him unto the place Golgotha, which is, being interpreted, The place of a skull.

15:23    拿沒藥調和的酒給耶穌，他卻不受。
And they gave him to drink wine mingled with myrrh: but he received it not.

15:24    於是將他釘在十字架上，拈鬮分他的衣服，看是誰得什麼。
And when they had crucified him, they parted his garments, casting lots upon them, what every man should take.

15:25    他在十字架上，是巳初的時候。
And it was the third hour, and they crucified him.

15:26    在上面有他的罪狀，寫的是猶太人的王。
And the superscription of his accusation was written over, THE KING OF THE JEWS.

15:27    他們又把兩個強盜，和他同釘十字架。一個在右邊，一個在左邊。（有古卷在此有
And with him they crucify two thieves; the one on his right hand, and the other on his left.

15:28    這就應了經上的話說，他被列在罪犯之中）
And the scripture was fulfilled, which saith, And he was numbered with the transgressors.

15:29    從那裡經過的人辱罵他，搖著頭說，咳，你這拆毀聖殿，三日又建造起來的。
And they that passed by railed on him, wagging their heads, and saying, Ah, thou that destroyest the temple, and buildest it in three days,

15:30    可以救自己從十字架上下來吧。
Save thyself, and come down from the cross.

15:31    祭司長和文士也是這樣戲弄他，彼此說，他就了別人，不能救自己。
Likewise also the chief priests mocking said among themselves with the scribes, He saved others; himself he cannot save.

15:32    以色列的王基督，現在可以從十字架上下來，叫我們看見，就信了。那和他同釘的人也是譏誚他。
Let Christ the King of Israel descend now from the cross, that we may see and believe. And they that were crucified with him reviled him.

15:33    從午正到申初遍地都黑暗了。
And when the sixth hour was come, there was darkness over the whole land until the ninth hour.

15:34    申初的時候，耶穌大聲喊著說，以羅伊，以羅伊，拉馬撒巴各大尼。翻出來，就是，我的神，我的神，為什麼離棄我。
And at the ninth hour Jesus cried with a loud voice, saying, Eloi, Eloi, lama sabachthani? which is, being interpreted, My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me?

15:35    旁邊站著的人，有的聽見就說，看哪，他叫以利亞呢。
And some of them that stood by, when they heard it, said, Behold, he calleth Elias.

15:36    有一個人跑去，把海絨蘸滿了醋，綁在葦子上，送給他喝，說，且等著，看以利亞來不來把他取下。
And one ran and filled a spunge full of vinegar, and put it on a reed, and gave him to drink, saying, Let alone; let us see whether Elias will come to take him down.

15:37    耶穌大聲喊叫，氣就斷了。
And Jesus cried with a loud voice, and gave up the ghost.

15:38    殿裡的幔子，從上到下裂為兩半。
And the veil of the temple was rent in twain from the top to the bottom.

15:39    對面站著的百夫長，看見耶穌這樣喊叫斷氣，（有古卷無喊叫二字）就說，這人真是神的兒子。
And when the centurion, which stood over against him, saw that he so cried out, and gave up the ghost, he said, Truly this man was the Son of God.

15:40    還有些婦女，遠遠的觀看。內中有抹大拉的馬利亞，又有小雅各和約西的母親馬利亞，並有撒羅米。
There were also women looking on afar off: among whom was Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James the less and of Joses, and Salome;

15:41    就是耶穌在加利利的時候，跟隨他，服事他的那些人，還有同耶穌上耶路撒冷的好些婦女在那裡觀看。
(Who also, when he was in Galilee, followed him, and ministered unto him;) and many other women which came up with him unto Jerusalem.

15:42    到了晚上，因為這是豫備日，就是安息日的前一日，
And now when the even was come, because it was the preparation, that is, the day before the sabbath,

15:43    有亞利馬太的約瑟前來，他是尊貴的議士，也是等候神國的。他放膽進去見彼拉多，求耶穌的身禮。
Joseph of Arimathaea, an honourable counsellor, which also waited for the kingdom of God, came, and went in boldly unto Pilate, and craved the body of Jesus.

15:44    彼拉多詫異耶穌已經死了。便叫百夫長來，問他耶穌死了久不久。
And Pilate marvelled if he were already dead: and calling unto him the centurion, he asked him whether he had been any while dead.

15:45    既從百夫長得知實情，就把耶穌的屍首賜給約瑟。
And when he knew it of the centurion, he gave the body to Joseph.

15:46    約瑟買了細麻布，把耶穌取下來，用細麻布裹好，安放在磐石鑿出來的墳墓裡。又輥過一個石頭來擋住墓門。
And he bought fine linen, and took him down, and wrapped him in the linen, and laid him in a sepulchre which was hewn out of a rock, and rolled a stone unto the door of the sepulchre.

15:47    抹大拉的馬利亞，和約西的母親馬利亞。都看見安放他的地方。
And Mary Magdalene and Mary the mother of Joses beheld where he was laid.




新約 -- 馬可福音(Mark) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　


16:1    過了安息日，抹大拉的馬利亞，和雅各的母親馬利亞，並撒羅米，買了香膏，要去膏耶穌的身體。
And when the sabbath was past, Mary Magdalene, and Mary the mother of James, and Salome, had bought sweet spices, that they might come and anoint him.

16:2    七日的第一日清早，出太陽的時候，他們來到墳墓那裡。
And very early in the morning the first day of the week, they came unto the sepulchre at the rising of the sun.

16:3    彼此說，誰給我們把石頭從墓門輥開呢。
And they said among themselves, Who shall roll us away the stone from the door of the sepulchre?

16:4    那石頭原來很大，他們抬頭一看，卻見石頭已經輥開了。
And when they looked, they saw that the stone was rolled away: for it was very great.

16:5    他們進了墳墓，看見一個少年人坐在右邊，穿著白袍。就甚驚恐。
And entering into the sepulchre, they saw a young man sitting on the right side, clothed in a long white garment; and they were affrighted.

16:6    那少年人對他們說，不要驚恐。你們尋梢那釘十字架的拿撒勒人耶穌。他已經復活了，不在這裡。請看安放他的地方。
And he saith unto them, Be not affrighted: Ye seek Jesus of Nazareth, which was crucified: he is risen; he is not here: behold the place where they laid him.

16:7    你們可以去告訴他的門徒和彼得說，他在你們以先往加利利去。在那裡你們要見他，正如他從前所告訴你們的。
But go your way, tell his disciples and Peter that he goeth before you into Galilee: there shall ye see him, as he said unto you.

16:8    他們就出來，從墳墓那裡逃跑。又發抖，又驚奇，什麼也不告訴人。因為他們害怕。
And they went out quickly, and fled from the sepulchre; for they trembled and were amazed: neither said they any thing to any man; for they were afraid.

16:9    在七日的第一日清早，耶穌復活了，就先向抹大拉的馬利亞顯現。耶穌從他身上曾趕出七個鬼。
Now when Jesus was risen early the first day of the week, he appeared first to Mary Magdalene, out of whom he had cast seven devils.

16:10    他去告訴那向來跟隨耶穌的人。那時他們正哀慟哭泣。
And she went and told them that had been with him, as they mourned and wept.

16:11    他們聽見耶穌活了，被馬利亞看見，卻是不信。
And they, when they had heard that he was alive, and had been seen of her, believed not.

16:12    這事以後，門徒中間有兩個人，往鄉下去。走路的時候，耶穌變了形像向他們顯現，
After that he appeared in another form unto two of them, as they walked, and went into the country.

16:13    他們就去告訴其餘的門徒。其餘的門徒，也是不信。
And they went and told it unto the residue: neither believed they them.

16:14    後來，十一個門徒坐席的時候，耶穌向他們顯現，責備他們不信，心裡剛硬。因為他們不信那些在他復活以後看見他的人。
Afterward he appeared unto the eleven as they sat at meat, and upbraided them with their unbelief and hardness of heart, because they believed not them which had seen him after he was risen.

16:15    他又對他們說，你們往普天下去，傳福音給萬民聽。（萬民原文作凡受造的）
And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world, and preach the gospel to every creature.

16:16    信而受洗的必然得救。不信的必被定罪。
He that believeth and is baptized shall be saved; but he that believeth not shall be damned.

16:17    信的人必有神蹟隨著他們，就是奉我的名趕鬼。說新方言。
And these signs shall follow them that believe; In my name shall they cast out devils; they shall speak with new tongues;

16:18    手能拿蛇。若喝了什麼毒物，也必不受害。手按病人，病人就必好了。
They shall take up serpents; and if they drink any deadly thing, it shall not hurt them; they shall lay hands on the sick, and they shall recover.

16:19    主耶穌和他們說完了話，後來被接到天上，坐在神的右邊。
So then after the Lord had spoken unto them, he was received up into heaven, and sat on the right hand of God.

16:20    門徒出去，到處宣傳福音，主和他們同工，用神蹟隨著，證實所傳的道。阿們。
And they went forth, and preached every where, the Lord working with them, and confirming the word with signs following. Amen.





