
新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


1:1    提阿非羅大人哪，有好些人提筆作書，
Forasmuch as many have taken in hand to set forth in order a declaration of those things which are most surely believed among us,

1:2    *述說在我們中間所成就的事，是照傳道的人，從起初親眼看見，又傳給我們的
Even as they delivered them unto us, which from the beginning were eyewitnesses, and ministers of the word;

1:3    這些事我既從起頭都詳細考察了，就定意要按著次序寫給你，
It seemed good to me also, having had perfect understanding of all things from the very first, to write unto thee in order, most excellent Theophilus,

1:4    使你知道所學之道都是確實的。
That thou mightest know the certainty of those things, wherein thou hast been instructed.

1:5    當猶太王希律的時候，亞比雅班裡有一個祭司，名叫撒迦利亞。他妻子是亞倫的後人，名叫伊利莎白。
There was in the days of Herod, the king of Judaea, a certain priest named Zacharias, of the course of Abia: and his wife was of the daughters of Aaron, and her name was Elisabeth.

1:6    他們二人，在神面前都是義人，遵行主的一切誡命禮儀，沒有可指摘的。
And they were both righteous before God, walking in all the commandments and ordinances of the Lord blameless.

1:7    只是沒有孩子，因為伊利莎白不生育，兩個人又年紀老邁了。
And they had no child, because that Elisabeth was barren, and they both were now well stricken in years.

1:8    撒迦利亞按班次，在神前面供祭司的職分，
And it came to pass, that while he executed the priest's office before God in the order of his course,

1:9    照祭司的規矩掣籤，得進主殿燒香。
According to the custom of the priest's office, his lot was to burn incense when he went into the temple of the Lord.

1:10    燒香的時後，眾百姓在外面禱告。
And the whole multitude of the people were praying without at the time of incense.

1:11    有主的使者站在香壇的右邊，向他顯現。
And there appeared unto him an angel of the Lord standing on the right side of the altar of incense.

1:12    撒迦利亞看見，就驚慌害怕。
And when Zacharias saw him, he was troubled, and fear fell upon him.

1:13    天使對他說，撒迦利亞，不要害怕。因為你的祈禱已經被聽見了，你的妻子伊利莎白要給你生一個兒子，你要給他起名叫約翰。
But the angel said unto him, Fear not, Zacharias: for thy prayer is heard; and thy wife Elisabeth shall bear thee a son, and thou shalt call his name John.

1:14    你必喜歡快樂，有許多人因他出世，也必喜樂。
And thou shalt have joy and gladness; and many shall rejoice at his birth.

1:15    他在主面前將要為大，淡酒濃酒都不喝，從母腹裡就被聖靈充滿了。
For he shall be great in the sight of the Lord, and shall drink neither wine nor strong drink; and he shall be filled with the Holy Ghost, even from his mother's womb.

1:16    他要使許多以色列人迴轉，歸於他們的神。
And many of the children of Israel shall he turn to the Lord their God.

1:17    他必有以利亞的心志能力，行在主的前面，叫為父的心轉向兒女，叫悖逆的人轉從義人的智慧。又為主豫備合用的百姓。
And he shall go before him in the spirit and power of Elias, to turn the hearts of the fathers to the children, and the disobedient to the wisdom of the just; to make ready a people prepared for the Lord.

1:18    撒迦利亞對天使說，我憑著什麼可知道這事呢，我已經老了，我的妻子也年紀老邁了。
And Zacharias said unto the angel, Whereby shall I know this? for I am an old man, and my wife well stricken in years.

1:19    天使回答說，我是站在神面前的加百列，奉差而來，對你說話，將這好資訊報給你。
And the angel answering said unto him, I am Gabriel, that stand in the presence of God; and am sent to speak unto thee, and to shew thee these glad tidings.

1:20    到了時候，這話必然應驗。只因你不信，你必啞吧不能說話，直到這事成就的日子。
And, behold, thou shalt be dumb, and not able to speak, until the day that these things shall be performed, because thou believest not my words, which shall be fulfilled in their season.

1:21    百姓等候撒迦利亞，詫異他許久在殿裡。
And the people waited for Zacharias, and marvelled that he tarried so long in the temple.

1:22    及至他出來，不能和他們說話。他們知道他在殿裡見了異象。因為他直向他們打手式，竟成了啞吧。
And when he came out, he could not speak unto them: and they perceived that he had seen a vision in the temple: for he beckoned unto them, and remained speechless.

1:23    他供職的日子已滿，就回家去了。
And it came to pass, that, as soon as the days of his ministration were accomplished, he departed to his own house.

1:24    這些日子以後，他的妻子伊利莎白懷了孕，就隱藏了五個月，
And after those days his wife Elisabeth conceived, and hid herself five months, saying,

1:25    說，主在眷顧我的日子，這樣看待我，要把我在人間的羞恥除掉。
Thus hath the Lord dealt with me in the days wherein he looked on me, to take away my reproach among men.

1:26    到了第六個月，天使加百列奉神的差遣，往加利利的一座城去，這城名叫拿撒勒。
And in the sixth month the angel Gabriel was sent from God unto a city of Galilee, named Nazareth,

1:27    到一個童女那裡，是已經許配大衛家的一個人，名叫約瑟，童女的名字叫馬利亞。
To a virgin espoused to a man whose name was Joseph, of the house of David; and the virgin's name was Mary.

1:28    天使進去，對他說，蒙大恩的女子，我問你安，主和你同在了。
And the angel came in unto her, and said, Hail, thou that art highly favoured, the Lord is with thee: blessed art thou among women.

1:29    馬利亞因這話就很驚慌，又反覆思想這樣問安是什麼意思。
And when she saw him, she was troubled at his saying, and cast in her mind what manner of salutation this should be.

1:30    天使對他說，馬利亞不要怕。你在神面前已經蒙恩了。
And the angel said unto her, Fear not, Mary: for thou hast found favour with God.

1:31    你要懷孕生子，可以給他起名叫耶穌。
And, behold, thou shalt conceive in thy womb, and bring forth a son, and shalt call his name JESUS.

1:32    他要為大，稱為至高者的兒子。主神要把他祖大衛的位給他。
He shall be great, and shall be called the Son of the Highest: and the Lord God shall give unto him the throne of his father David:

1:33    他要作雅各家的王，直到永遠。他的國也沒有窮盡。
And he shall reign over the house of Jacob for ever; and of his kingdom there shall be no end.

1:34    馬利亞對天使說，我沒有出嫁，怎嗎有這事呢。
Then said Mary unto the angel, How shall this be, seeing I know not a man?

1:35    天使回答說，聖靈要臨到你身上，至高者的能力要蔭庇你。因此所要生的聖者，必稱為神的兒子。（或作所要生的必稱為聖稱為神的兒子）
And the angel answered and said unto her, The Holy Ghost shall come upon thee, and the power of the Highest shall overshadow thee: therefore also that holy thing which shall be born of thee shall be called the Son of God.

1:36    況且你的親戚伊利莎白，在年老的時候，也懷了男胎。就是那素來稱為不生育的，現在有孕六個月了。
And, behold, thy cousin Elisabeth, she hath also conceived a son in her old age: and this is the sixth month with her, who was called barren.

1:37    因為出於神的話，沒有一句不帶能力的。
For with God nothing shall be impossible.

1:38    馬利亞說，我是主的使女，情願照你的話成就在我身上。天使就離開他去了。
And Mary said, Behold the handmaid of the Lord; be it unto me according to thy word. And the angel departed from her.

1:39    那時候馬利亞起身，急忙往山地裡去，來到猶大的一座城。
And Mary arose in those days, and went into the hill country with haste, into a city of Juda;

1:40    進了撒迦利亞的家，問伊利莎白安。
And entered into the house of Zacharias, and saluted Elisabeth.

1:41    伊利莎白一聽馬利亞問安，所懷的胎就在腹裡跳動，伊利莎白且聖靈充滿。
And it came to pass, that, when Elisabeth heard the salutation of Mary, the babe leaped in her womb; and Elisabeth was filled with the Holy Ghost:

1:42    高聲喊著說，你在婦女中是有福的，你所懷的胎也是有福的。
And she spake out with a loud voice, and said, Blessed art thou among women, and blessed is the fruit of thy womb.

1:43    我主的母到我這裡來，這是從那裡得的呢。
And whence is this to me, that the mother of my Lord should come to me?

1:44    因為你問安的聲音，一入我耳，我腹裡的胎，就歡喜跳動。
For, lo, as soon as the voice of thy salutation sounded in mine ears, the babe leaped in my womb for joy.

1:45    這相信的女子是有福的。因為主對他所說的話，都要應驗。
And blessed is she that believed: for there shall be a performance of those things which were told her from the Lord.

1:46    馬利亞說，我心尊主為大，
And Mary said, My soul doth magnify the Lord,

1:47    我靈以神我的救主為樂。
And my spirit hath rejoiced in God my Saviour.

1:48    因為他顧念他使女的卑微。從今以後，萬代要稱我有福。
For he hath regarded the low estate of his handmaiden: for, behold, from henceforth all generations shall call me blessed.

1:49    那有權能的為我成就了大事。他的名為聖。
For he that is mighty hath done to me great things; and holy is his name.

1:50    他憐憫敬畏他的人，直到世世代代。
And his mercy is on them that fear him from generation to generation.

1:51    他用膀臂施展大能。那狂傲的人，正心裡妄想，就被他趕散了。
He hath shewed strength with his arm; he hath scattered the proud in the imagination of their hearts.

1:52    他叫有權柄的失位，叫卑賤的升高。
He hath put down the mighty from their seats, and exalted them of low degree.



1:53    叫飢餓的得飽美食，叫富足的空手回去。
He hath filled the hungry with good things; and the rich he hath sent empty away.

1:54    他扶助了他的僕人以色列，
He hath holpen his servant Israel, in remembrance of his mercy;

1:55    為要記念亞伯拉罕和他的後裔，施憐憫，直到永遠，正如從前對我們列祖所說的話。
As he spake to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his seed for ever.

1:56    馬利亞和伊利莎白同住，約有三個月，就回家了。
And Mary abode with her about three months, and returned to her own house.

1:57    伊利莎白的產期到了，就生了一個兒子。
Now Elisabeth's full time came that she should be delivered; and she brought forth a son.

1:58    鄰里親族，聽見主向他大施憐憫，就和他一同歡樂。
And her neighbours and her cousins heard how the Lord had shewed great mercy upon her; and they rejoiced with her.

1:59    到了第八日，他們來要給孩子行割禮。並要照他父親的名字，叫他撒迦利亞。
And it came to pass, that on the eighth day they came to circumcise the child; and they called him Zacharias, after the name of his father.

1:60    他母親說，不可。要叫他約翰。
And his mother answered and said, Not so; but he shall be called John.

1:61    他們說，你親族中沒有叫這名字的。
And they said unto her, There is none of thy kindred that is called by this name.

1:62    他們就向他父親打手式，問他要叫這孩子什麼名字。
And they made signs to his father, how he would have him called.

1:63    他要了一塊寫字的板，就寫上說，他的名字是約翰。他們便都希奇。
And he asked for a writing table, and wrote, saying, His name is John. And they marvelled all.

1:64    撒迦利亞的口立時開了，舌頭也舒展了，就說出話來，稱頌神。
And his mouth was opened immediately, and his tongue loosed, and he spake, and praised God.

1:65    周圍居住的人都懼怕，這一切的事就傳遍了猶太的山地。
And fear came on all that dwelt round about them: and all these sayings were noised abroad throughout all the hill country of Judaea.

1:66    凡聽見的人，都將這事放在心裡，說，這個孩子，將來怎嗎樣呢。因為有主與他同在。
And all they that heard them laid them up in their hearts, saying, What manner of child shall this be! And the hand of the Lord was with him.

1:67    他父親撒迦利亞，被聖靈充滿了，就預言說，
And his father Zacharias was filled with the Holy Ghost, and prophesied, saying,

1:68    主以色列的神，是應當稱頌的。因他眷顧他的百姓，為他們施行救贖。
Blessed be the Lord God of Israel; for he hath visited and redeemed his people,

1:69    在他僕人大衛家中，為我們興起了拯救的角，
And hath raised up an horn of salvation for us in the house of his servant David;

1:70    （正如主藉著從創世以來，聖先知的口所說的話）
As he spake by the mouth of his holy prophets, which have been since the world began:

1:71    拯救我們脫離仇敵，和一切恨我們之人的手。
That we should be saved from our enemies, and from the hand of all that hate us;

1:72    向我們列祖施憐憫，記念他的聖約。
To perform the mercy promised to our fathers, and to remember his holy covenant;

1:73    就是他對我們祖宗亞伯拉罕所起的誓，
The oath which he sware to our father Abraham,

1:74    叫我們既從仇敵手中被救出來，
That he would grant unto us, that we being delivered out of the hand of our enemies might serve him without fear,

1:75    就可以終身在他面前，坦然無懼的用聖潔公義事奉他。
In holiness and righteousness before him, all the days of our life.

1:76    孩子阿，你要稱為至高者的先知。因為你要行在主的前面，豫備他的道路。
And thou, child, shalt be called the prophet of the Highest: for thou shalt go before the face of the Lord to prepare his ways;

1:77    叫他的百姓因罪得赦，就知到救恩。
To give knowledge of salvation unto his people by the remission of their sins,

1:78    因我們神憐憫的心腸，叫清晨的日光從高天臨到我們，
Through the tender mercy of our God; whereby the dayspring from on high hath visited us,

1:79    要照亮黑暗中死蔭裡的人。把我們的腳引到平安的路上。
To give light to them that sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, to guide our feet into the way of peace.

1:80    那孩子漸漸長大，心靈強健，住在曠野，直到他顯明在以色列人面前的日子。
And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, and was in the deserts till the day of his shewing unto Israel.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


2:1    當那些日子，凱撒奧古斯都有旨下來，叫天下人民都報名上冊。
And it came to pass in those days, that there went out a decree from Caesar Augustus, that all the world should be taxed.

2:2    這是居里扭作敘利亞巡撫的時候，頭一次行報名上冊的事。
(And this taxing was first made when Cyrenius was governor of Syria.)

2:3    眾人各歸各城，報名上冊。
And all went to be taxed, every one into his own city.

2:4    約瑟也從加利利的拿撒勒城上猶太去，到了大衛的城，名叫伯利恆，因他本是大衛一族一家的人。
And Joseph also went up from Galilee, out of the city of Nazareth, into Judaea, unto the city of David, which is called Bethlehem; (because he was of the house and lineage of David:)

2:5    要和他所聘之妻馬利亞，一同報名上冊。那時馬利亞的身孕已經重了。
To be taxed with Mary his espoused wife, being great with child.

2:6    他們在那裡的時候，馬利亞的產期到了。
And so it was, that, while they were there, the days were accomplished that she should be delivered.

2:7    就生了頭胎的兒子，用布包起來，放在馬槽裡，因為客店裡沒有地方。
And she brought forth her firstborn son, and wrapped him in swaddling clothes, and laid him in a manger; because there was no room for them in the inn.

2:8    在伯利恆之野地裡有牧羊人，夜間按著更次看守羊群。
And there were in the same country shepherds abiding in the field, keeping watch over their flock by night.

2:9    有主的使者站在他們旁邊，主的榮光四面照著他們。牧羊的人就甚懼怕。
And, lo, the angel of the Lord came upon them, and the glory of the Lord shone round about them: and they were sore afraid.

2:10    那天使對他們說，不要懼怕，我報給你們大喜的資訊，是關乎萬民的。
And the angel said unto them, Fear not: for, behold, I bring you good tidings of great joy, which shall be to all people.

2:11    因今天在大衛的城裡，為你們生了救主，就是主基督。
For unto you is born this day in the city of David a Saviour, which is Christ the Lord.

2:12    你們要看見一個嬰孩，包著布，臥在馬槽裡，那就是記號了。
And this shall be a sign unto you; Ye shall find the babe wrapped in swaddling clothes, lying in a manger.

2:13    忽然有一大隊天兵，同那天使讚美神說，
And suddenly there was with the angel a multitude of the heavenly host praising God, and saying,

2:14    在至高之處榮耀歸與神，在地上平安歸與他所喜悅的人。（有古卷作喜悅歸與人）。
Glory to God in the highest, and on earth peace, good will toward men.

2:15    眾天使離開他們昇天去了，牧羊的人彼此說，我們往伯利恆去，看看所成的事，就是主所指示我們的。
And it came to pass, as the angels were gone away from them into heaven, the shepherds said one to another, Let us now go even unto Bethlehem, and see this thing which is come to pass, which the Lord hath made known unto us.

2:16    他們急忙去了，就尋見馬利亞和約瑟，又有那嬰孩臥在馬槽裡。
And they came with haste, and found Mary, and Joseph, and the babe lying in a manger.

2:17    既然看見，就把天使論這孩子的話傳開了。
And when they had seen it, they made known abroad the saying which was told them concerning this child.

2:18    凡聽見的，就詫異牧羊人對他們所說的話。
And all they that heard it wondered at those things which were told them by the shepherds.

2:19    馬利亞卻把這一切事存在心裡，反覆思想。
But Mary kept all these things, and pondered them in her heart.

2:20    牧羊的人回去了，因所聽見所看見的一切事，正如天使向他們所說的，就歸榮耀與神，讚美他。
And the shepherds returned, glorifying and praising God for all the things that they had heard and seen, as it was told unto them.

2:21    滿了八天，就給孩子行割禮，與他起名叫耶酥，這就是沒有成胎以前，天使所起的名。
And when eight days were accomplished for the circumcising of the child, his name was called JESUS, which was so named of the angel before he was conceived in the womb.

2:22    按摩西律法滿了潔淨日子，他們帶著孩子上耶路撒冷去，要把他獻與主。
And when the days of her purification according to the law of Moses were accomplished, they brought him to Jerusalem, to present him to the Lord;

2:23    （正如主的律法上所記，凡頭生的男子，必稱聖歸主。）
(As it is written in the law of the LORD, Every male that openeth the womb shall be called holy to the Lord;)

2:24    又要照主的律法上所說，或用一對班鳩，或用兩隻雛鴿獻祭。
And to offer a sacrifice according to that which is said in the law of the Lord, A pair of turtledoves, or two young pigeons.

2:25    在耶路撒冷有一個人名叫西面，這人又公義又虔誠，素常盼望以色列的安慰者來到，又有聖靈在他身上。
And, behold, there was a man in Jerusalem, whose name was Simeon; and the same man was just and devout, waiting for the consolation of Israel: and the Holy Ghost was upon him.

2:26    他得了聖靈的啟示，知道自己未死以前，必看見主所立的基督。
And it was revealed unto him by the Holy Ghost, that he should not see death, before he had seen the Lord's Christ.

2:27    他受了聖靈的感動，進入聖殿。正遇見耶穌的父母抱著孩子進來，要照律法的規矩辦理。
And he came by the Spirit into the temple: and when the parents brought in the child Jesus, to do for him after the custom of the law,

2:28    西面就用手接過他來，稱頌神說，
Then took he him up in his arms, and blessed God, and said,

2:29    主阿，如今可以照你的話，釋放僕人安然去世。
Lord, now lettest thou thy servant depart in peace, according to thy word:

2:30    因為我的眼睛已經看見你的救恩。
For mine eyes have seen thy salvation,

2:31    就是你在萬民面前所豫備的。
Which thou hast prepared before the face of all people;

2:32    是照亮外邦人的光，又是你民以色列的榮耀。
A light to lighten the Gentiles, and the glory of thy people Israel.

2:33    孩子的父母，因這論耶穌的話就希奇。
And Joseph and his mother marvelled at those things which were spoken of him.

2:34    西面給他們祝福，
And Simeon blessed them, and said unto Mary his mother, Behold, this child is set for the fall and rising again of many in Israel; and for a sign which shall be spoken against;

2:35    又對孩子的母親馬利亞說，這孩子被立，是要叫以色列中許多人跌倒，許多人興起。又要作毀謗的話柄。叫許多人心裡的意念顯露出來。你自己的心也要被刀刺透。
(Yea, a sword shall pierce through thy own soul also,) that the thoughts of many hearts may be revealed.

2:36    又有女先知名叫亞拿，是亞設支派法內力的女兒，年紀已經老邁，從作童女出嫁的時候，同丈夫住了七年，就寡居了。
And there was one Anna, a prophetess, the daughter of Phanuel, of the tribe of Aser: she was of a great age, and had lived with an husband seven years from her virginity;

2:37    現在已經八十四歲，（或作就寡居了八十四年）並不離開聖殿，禁食祈求，晝夜事奉神。
And she was a widow of about fourscore and four years, which departed not from the temple, but served God with fastings and prayers night and day.

2:38    正當那時，他進來稱謝神，將孩子的事，對一切盼望耶路撒冷得救贖的人講說。
And she coming in that instant gave thanks likewise unto the Lord, and spake of him to all them that looked for redemption in Jerusalem.

2:39    約瑟和馬利亞，照主的律法，辦完了一切的事，就回加利利，到自己的城拿撒勒去了。
And when they had performed all things according to the law of the Lord, they returned into Galilee, to their own city Nazareth.

2:40    孩子漸漸長大，強健起來，充滿智慧。又有神的恩在他身上。
And the child grew, and waxed strong in spirit, filled with wisdom: and the grace of God was upon him.

2:41    每年到逾越節，他父母就上耶路撒冷去。
Now his parents went to Jerusalem every year at the feast of the passover.

2:42    當他十二歲的時候，他們按著節期的規矩上去。
And when he was twelve years old, they went up to Jerusalem after the custom of the feast.

2:43    守滿了節期，他們回去，孩童的耶穌仍舊在耶路撒冷。他的父母並不知道。
And when they had fulfilled the days, as they returned, the child Jesus tarried behind in Jerusalem; and Joseph and his mother knew not of it.

2:44    以為他在同行的人中間，走了一天的路程，就在親族和熟識的人中找他。
But they, supposing him to have been in the company, went a day's journey; and they sought him among their kinsfolk and acquaintance.

2:45    既找不著，就回耶路撒冷去找他。
And when they found him not, they turned back again to Jerusalem, seeking him.

2:46    過了三天，就遇見他在殿裡，坐在教師中間，一面聽，一面問。
And it came to pass, that after three days they found him in the temple, sitting in the midst of the doctors, both hearing them, and asking them questions.

2:47    凡聽見他的，都希奇他的聰明，和他的應對。
And all that heard him were astonished at his understanding and answers.

2:48    他父母看見就很希奇。他母親對他說，我兒，為什麼向我們這樣行呢。看哪，你父親和我傷心來找你。
And when they saw him, they were amazed: and his mother said unto him, Son, why hast thou thus dealt with us? behold, thy father and I have sought thee sorrowing.

2:49    耶穌說，為什麼找我呢。豈不知我應當以我父的事為念嗎。（或作豈不知我應當在我父的家裡嗎）
And he said unto them, How is it that ye sought me? wist ye not that I must be about my Father's business?

2:50    他所說的這話，他們不明白。
And they understood not the saying which he spake unto them.

2:51    他就同他們下去，回到拿撒勒。並且順從他們。他母親把這一切的事都存在心裡。
And he went down with them, and came to Nazareth, and was subject unto them: but his mother kept all these sayings in her heart.

2:52    耶穌的智慧和身量，（身量或作年紀）並神和人喜愛他的心，都一齊增長。
And Jesus increased in wisdom and stature, and in favour with God and man.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


3:1    凱撒提庇留在位第十五年，本丟彼拉多作猶太巡撫，希律作加利利分封的王，他兄弟腓力作以土利亞和特拉可尼地方分封的王，呂撒聶作亞比利尼分封的王，
Now in the fifteenth year of the reign of Tiberius Caesar, Pontius Pilate being governor of Judaea, and Herod being tetrarch of Galilee, and his brother Philip tetrarch of Ituraea and of the region of Trachonitis, and Lysanias the tetrarch of Abilene,

3:2    亞那和該亞法作大祭司，那時，撒迦利亞的兒子約翰在曠野裡，神的話臨到他。
Annas and Caiaphas being the high priests, the word of God came unto John the son of Zacharias in the wilderness.

3:3    他就來到約旦河一帶地方，宣講悔改的洗禮，使罪得赦。
And he came into all the country about Jordan, preaching the baptism of repentance for the remission of sins;

3:4    正如先知以賽亞書上所記的話，說，在曠野有人聲喊著說，豫備主的道，修直他的路。
As it is written in the book of the words of Esaias the prophet, saying, The voice of one crying in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the Lord, make his paths straight.

3:5    一切山窪都要填滿，大小山岡都要削平。彎彎曲曲的地方要改為正直，高高低低的道路要改為平坦。
Every valley shall be filled, and every mountain and hill shall be brought low; and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough ways shall be made smooth;

3:6    凡是血氣的，都要見神的救恩。
And all flesh shall see the salvation of God.

3:7    約翰對那出來要受他洗的眾人說，毒蛇的種類，誰指示你們逃避將來的忿怒呢。
Then said he to the multitude that came forth to be baptized of him, O generation of vipers, who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?

3:8    你們要結出果子來，與悔改的心向稱，不要自己心裡說，有亞伯拉罕為我們的祖宗。我告訴你們，神能從這些石頭中，給亞伯拉罕興起子孫來。
Bring forth therefore fruits worthy of repentance, and begin not to say within yourselves, We have Abraham to our father: for I say unto you, That God is able of these stones to raise up children unto Abraham.

3:9    現在斧子已經放在樹根上，凡不結好果子的樹，就砍下來丟在火裡。
And now also the axe is laid unto the root of the trees: every tree therefore which bringeth not forth good fruit is hewn down, and cast into the fire.

3:10    眾人問他說，這樣我們當作什麼呢。
And the people asked him, saying, What shall we do then?

3:11    約翰回答說，有兩件衣裳的，就分給那沒有的。有食物的也當這樣行。
He answereth and saith unto them, He that hath two coats, let him impart to him that hath none; and he that hath meat, let him do likewise.

3:12    又有稅吏來受洗，問他說，夫子，我們當作什麼呢。
Then came also publicans to be baptized, and said unto him, Master, what shall we do?

3:13    約翰說，除了例定的數目，不要多取。
And he said unto them, Exact no more than that which is appointed you.

3:14    又有兵丁問他說，我們當作什麼呢。約翰說，不要以強暴待人，也不要訛詐人，自己有錢糧就當知足。
And the soldiers likewise demanded of him, saying, And what shall we do? And he said unto them, Do violence to no man, neither accuse any falsely; and be content with your wages.

3:15    百姓指望基督來的時候，人都心猜疑，或者約翰是基督。
And as the people were in expectation, and all men mused in their hearts of John, whether he were the Christ, or not;

3:16    約翰說，我是用水給你們施洗，但有一位能力比我更大的要來，我就是給他解鞋帶也不配。他要用聖靈與火給你們施洗。
John answered, saying unto them all, I indeed baptize you with water; but one mightier than I cometh, the latchet of whose shoes I am not worthy to unloose: he shall baptize you with the Holy Ghost and with fire:

3:17    他手裡拿著簸箕，要揚淨他的場，把麥子收在倉裡，把糠用不滅的火燒盡了。
Whose fan is in his hand, and he will throughly purge his floor, and will gather the wheat into his garner; but the chaff he will burn with fire unquenchable.

3:18    約翰又用許多別的話勸百姓，向他們傳福音。
And many other things in his exhortation preached he unto the people.

3:19    只是分封的王希律，因他兄弟之妻希羅底的緣故，並因他所行的一切惡事，受了約翰的責備，
But Herod the tetrarch, being reproved by him for Herodias his brother Philip's wife, and for all the evils which Herod had done,

3:20    又另外添了一件，就是把約翰收在監裡。
Added yet this above all, that he shut up John in prison.

3:21    眾百姓都受了洗，耶穌也受了洗，正禱告的時候，天就開了，
Now when all the people were baptized, it came to pass, that Jesus also being baptized, and praying, the heaven was opened,

3:22    聖靈降臨在他身上，形狀妨佛鴿子。又有聲音從天上來，說，你是我的愛子，我喜悅你。
And the Holy Ghost descended in a bodily shape like a dove upon him, and a voice came from heaven, which said, Thou art my beloved Son; in thee I am well pleased.

3:23    耶穌開頭傳道，年紀約有三十歲，依人看來，他是約瑟的兒子，約瑟是希裡的兒子，
And Jesus himself began to be about thirty years of age, being (as was supposed) the son of Joseph, which was the son of Heli,

3:24    希裡是瑪塔的兒子，瑪塔是利未的兒子，利未是麥基的兒子，麥基是雅拿的兒子，雅拿是約瑟的兒子。
Which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi, which was the son of Melchi, which was the son of Janna, which was the son of Joseph,

3:25    約瑟是瑪他提亞的兒子，瑪他提亞是亞摩斯的兒子，亞摩斯是拿鴻的兒子，拿鴻是以斯利的兒子，以斯利是拿該的兒子，
Which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Amos, which was the son of Naum, which was the son of Esli, which was the son of Nagge,

3:26    拿該是瑪押的兒子，瑪押是瑪他提亞的兒子，瑪他提亞是西美的兒子，西美是約瑟的兒子，約瑟是猶大的兒子，猶大是約亞拿的兒子，
Which was the son of Maath, which was the son of Mattathias, which was the son of Semei, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Juda,

3:27    約亞拿是利撒的兒子，利撒是所羅巴伯的兒子，所羅巴伯是撒拉鐵的兒子，撒拉鐵是尼利的兒子，尼利是麥基的兒子，
Which was the son of Joanna, which was the son of Rhesa, which was the son of Zorobabel, which was the son of Salathiel, which was the son of Neri,

3:28    麥基是亞底的兒子，亞底是哥桑的兒子，哥桑是以摩當的兒子，以摩當是珥的兒子，珥是約細的兒子，
Which was the son of Melchi, which was the son of Addi, which was the son of Cosam, which was the son of Elmodam, which was the son of Er,

3:29    約細是以利以謝的兒子，以利以謝是約令的兒子，約令是瑪塔的兒子，瑪塔是利未的兒子，
Which was the son of Jose, which was the son of Eliezer, which was the son of Jorim, which was the son of Matthat, which was the son of Levi,

3:30    利未是西緬的兒子，西緬是猶大的兒子，猶大是約瑟的兒子，約瑟是約南的兒子，約南是以利亞敬的兒子，
Which was the son of Simeon, which was the son of Juda, which was the son of Joseph, which was the son of Jonan, which was the son of Eliakim,

3:31    以利亞敬是米利亞的兒子，米利亞是買南的兒子，買南是瑪達他的兒子，瑪達他是拿單的兒子，拿單是大衛的兒子，
Which was the son of Melea, which was the son of Menan, which was the son of Mattatha, which was the son of Nathan, which was the son of David,

3:32    大衛是耶西的兒子，耶西是俄備得的兒子，俄備得是波阿斯的兒子，波阿斯是撒門的兒子，撒門是拿順的兒子，
Which was the son of Jesse, which was the son of Obed, which was the son of Booz, which was the son of Salmon, which was the son of Naasson,

3:33    拿順是亞米拿達的兒子，亞米拿達是亞蘭的兒子，亞蘭是希斯崙的兒子，希斯崙是法勒斯的兒子，法勒斯是猶大的兒子，
Which was the son of Aminadab, which was the son of Aram, which was the son of Esrom, which was the son of Phares, which was the son of Juda,

3:34    猶大是雅各的兒子，雅各是以撒的兒子，以撒是亞伯拉罕的兒子，亞伯拉罕是他拉的兒子，他拉是拿鶴的兒子，
Which was the son of Jacob, which was the son of Isaac, which was the son of Abraham, which was the son of Thara, which was the son of Nachor,

3:35    拿鶴是西鹿的兒子，西鹿是拉吳的兒子，拉吳是法勒的兒子，法勒是希伯的兒子，希伯是沙拉的兒子，
Which was the son of Saruch, which was the son of Ragau, which was the son of Phalec, which was the son of Heber, which was the son of Sala,

3:36    沙拉是該南的兒子，該南是亞法撒的兒子，亞法撒是閃的兒子，閃是挪亞的兒子，挪亞是拉麥的兒子，
Which was the son of Cainan, which was the son of Arphaxad, which was the son of Sem, which was the son of Noe, which was the son of Lamech,

3:37    拉麥是瑪土撒拉的兒子，瑪土撒拉是以諾的兒子，以諾是雅列的兒子，雅列是瑪勒列的兒子，瑪勒列是該南的兒子，該南是以挪士的兒子，
Which was the son of Mathusala, which was the son of Enoch, which was the son of Jared, which was the son of Maleleel, which was the son of Cainan,

3:38    以挪士是塞特的兒子，塞特是亞當的兒子，亞當是神的兒子。
Which was the son of Enos, which was the son of Seth, which was the son of Adam, which was the son of God.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


4:1    耶穌被聖靈充滿，從約旦河回來，聖靈將他引到曠野，四十天受魔鬼的試探。
And Jesus being full of the Holy Ghost returned from Jordan, and was led by the Spirit into the wilderness,

4:2    那些日子沒有吃什嗎。日子滿了，他就餓了。
Being forty days tempted of the devil. And in those days he did eat nothing: and when they were ended, he afterward hungered.

4:3    魔鬼對他說，你若是神的兒子，可以吩咐這塊石頭變成食物。
And the devil said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, command this stone that it be made bread.

4:4    耶穌回答說，經上記著說，人活著不是單靠食物，乃是靠神口裡所出的一切話
And Jesus answered him, saying, It is written, That man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word of God.

4:5    魔鬼又領他上了高山，霎時間把天下的萬國都指給他看。
And the devil, taking him up into an high mountain, shewed unto him all the kingdoms of the world in a moment of time.

4:6    對他說，這一切權柄榮華，我都要給你。因為這原是交付我的，我願意給誰就給誰。
And the devil said unto him, All this power will I give thee, and the glory of them: for that is delivered unto me; and to whomsoever I will I give it.

4:7    你若在我面前下拜，這都要歸你。
If thou therefore wilt worship me, all shall be thine.

4:8    耶穌說，經上記著說，當拜主你的神，單要事奉他。
And Jesus answered and said unto him, Get thee behind me, Satan: for it is written, Thou shalt worship the Lord thy God, and him only shalt thou serve.

4:9    魔鬼又領他到耶路撒冷去，叫他站在殿頂上，（頂原文作翅）對他說，你若是神的兒子，可以從這裡跳下去。
And he brought him to Jerusalem, and set him on a pinnacle of the temple, and said unto him, If thou be the Son of God, cast thyself down from hence:

4:10    因為經上記著說，主要為你吩咐他的使者保護你。
For it is written, He shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee:

4:11    他們要用手託著你，免得你的腳碰在石頭上。
And in their hands they shall bear thee up, lest at any time thou dash thy foot against a stone.

4:12    耶穌對他說，經上說，不可試探主你的神。
And Jesus answering said unto him, It is said, Thou shalt not tempt the Lord thy God.

4:13    魔鬼用完了各樣的試探，就暫時離開耶穌。
And when the devil had ended all the temptation, he departed from him for a season.

4:14    耶穌滿有聖靈的能力回到加利利，他的名聲就傳遍了四方。
And Jesus returned in the power of the Spirit into Galilee: and there went out a fame of him through all the region round about.

4:15    他在各會堂裡教訓人，眾人都稱讚他。
And he taught in their synagogues, being glorified of all.

4:16    耶穌來到拿撒勒，就是他長大的地方。在安息日，照他平常的規矩，進了會堂，站起來要念聖經。
And he came to Nazareth, where he had been brought up: and, as his custom was, he went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and stood up for to read.

4:17    有人把先知以賽亞的書交給他，他就開啟，找到一處寫著說，
And there was delivered unto him the book of the prophet Esaias. And when he had opened the book, he found the place where it was written,

4:18    主的靈在我身上，因為他用膏膏我，叫我傳福音給貧窮的人。差遣我報告被擄的得釋放，瞎眼的得看見，叫那受壓制的得自由，
The Spirit of the Lord is upon me, because he hath anointed me to preach the gospel to the poor; he hath sent me to heal the brokenhearted, to preach deliverance to the captives, and recovering of sight to the blind, to set at liberty them that are bruised,

4:19    報告神悅納人的禧年。
To preach the acceptable year of the Lord.

4:20    於是把書捲起來，交還執事，就坐下。會堂裡的人都定睛看他。
And he closed the book, and he gave it again to the minister, and sat down. And the eyes of all them that were in the synagogue were fastened on him.

4:21    耶穌對他們說，今天這經應驗在你們耳中了。
And he began to say unto them, This day is this scripture fulfilled in your ears.

4:22    眾人都稱讚他，並希奇他口中所出的恩言。又說，這不是約瑟的兒子嗎。
And all bare him witness, and wondered at the gracious words which proceeded out of his mouth. And they said, Is not this Joseph's son?

4:23    耶穌對他們說，你們必引這俗語向我說，醫生，你醫治自己吧。我們聽見你在迦百農所行的事，也當行在你自己家鄉里。
And he said unto them, Ye will surely say unto me this proverb, Physician, heal thyself: whatsoever we have heard done in Capernaum, do also here in thy country.

4:24    又說，我實在告訴你們，沒有先知在自己家鄉被人悅納的。
And he said, Verily I say unto you, No prophet is accepted in his own country.

4:25    我對你們說實話，當以利亞的時候，天閉塞了三年零六個月，偏地有大饑荒，那時，以色列中有許多寡婦。
But I tell you of a truth, many widows were in Israel in the days of Elias, when the heaven was shut up three years and six months, when great famine was throughout all the land;

4:26    以利亞並沒有奉差往他們一個人那裡去，只奉差往西頓的撒勒法，一個寡婦那裡去。
But unto none of them was Elias sent, save unto Sarepta, a city of Sidon, unto a woman that was a widow.

4:27    先知以利沙的時候，以色列中有許多長大麻瘋的。但內中除了敘利亞國的乃縵，沒有一個得潔淨的。
And many lepers were in Israel in the time of Eliseus the prophet; and none of them was cleansed, saving Naaman the Syrian.

4:28    會堂裡的人聽見這話，都怒氣滿胸。
And all they in the synagogue, when they heard these things, were filled with wrath,

4:29    就起來攆他出城，他們的城造在山上，他們帶他到山崖，要把他推下去。
And rose up, and thrust him out of the city, and led him unto the brow of the hill whereon their city was built, that they might cast him down headlong.

4:30    他卻從他們中間直行，過去了。
But he passing through the midst of them went his way,

4:31    耶穌下到迦百農，就是加利利的一座城，在安息日教訓眾人。
And came down to Capernaum, a city of Galilee, and taught them on the sabbath days.

4:32    他們很希奇他的教訓，因為他的話裡有權柄。
And they were astonished at his doctrine: for his word was with power.

4:33    在會堂裡有一個人，被汙鬼的精氣附著，大聲喊叫說，
And in the synagogue there was a man, which had a spirit of an unclean devil, and cried out with a loud voice,

4:34    唉，拿撒勒的耶穌，我們與你有什嗎相干，你來滅我們嗎，我知道你是誰，乃是神的聖者。
Saying, Let us alone; what have we to do with thee, thou Jesus of Nazareth? art thou come to destroy us? I know thee who thou art; the Holy One of God.

4:35    耶穌責備他說，不要作聲，從這人身上出來吧。鬼把那人摔倒在眾人中間，就出來了，卻也沒有害他。
And Jesus rebuked him, saying, Hold thy peace, and come out of him. And when the devil had thrown him in the midst, he came out of him, and hurt him not.

4:36    眾人都驚訝，彼此對問說，這是什嗎道理呢。因為他用權柄能力吩咐汙鬼，汙鬼就出來。
And they were all amazed, and spake among themselves, saying, What a word is this! for with authority and power he commandeth the unclean spirits, and they come out.

4:37    於是耶穌的名聲傳遍了周圍地方。
And the fame of him went out into every place of the country round about.

4:38    耶穌出了會堂，進了西門的家。西門的岳母害熱病甚重。有人為他求耶穌。
And he arose out of the synagogue, and entered into Simon's house. And Simon's wife's mother was taken with a great fever; and they besought him for her.

4:39    耶穌站在他旁邊，斥責那熱病，熱就退了。他立刻起來服事他們。
And he stood over her, and rebuked the fever; and it left her: and immediately she arose and ministered unto them.

4:40    日落的時候，凡有病人的，不論害什嗎病，都帶到耶穌那裡。耶穌按手在他們各人身上，醫好他們。
Now when the sun was setting, all they that had any sick with divers diseases brought them unto him; and he laid his hands on every one of them, and healed them.

4:41    又有鬼從好些人身上出來，喊著說，你是神的兒子。耶穌斥責他們，不許他們說話，因為他們知道他是基督。
And devils also came out of many, crying out, and saying, Thou art Christ the Son of God. And he rebuking them suffered them not to speak: for they knew that he was Christ.

4:42    天亮的時候，耶穌出來，走到曠野地方。眾人去找他，到了他那裡，要留住他，不要他離開他們。
And when it was day, he departed and went into a desert place: and the people sought him, and came unto him, and stayed him, that he should not depart from them.

4:43    但耶穌對他們說，我也必須在別城傳神國的福音。因我奉差原是為此。
And he said unto them, I must preach the kingdom of God to other cities also: for therefore am I sent.

4:44    於是耶穌在加利利的各會堂傳道。
And he preached in the synagogues of Galilee.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


5:1    耶穌站在革尼撒勒湖邊，眾人擁擠他，要聽神的道。
And it came to pass, that, as the people pressed upon him to hear the word of God, he stood by the lake of Gennesaret,

5:2    他見有兩隻船灣在湖邊。打魚的人卻離開船，洗網去了。
And saw two ships standing by the lake: but the fishermen were gone out of them, and were washing their nets.

5:3    有一隻船，是西門的，耶穌就上去，請他把船撐開，稍微離岸，就坐下，從船上教訓眾人。
And he entered into one of the ships, which was Simon's, and prayed him that he would thrust out a little from the land. And he sat down, and taught the people out of the ship.

5:4    講完了，對西門說，把船開到水深之處，下網打魚。
Now when he had left speaking, he said unto Simon, Launch out into the deep, and let down your nets for a draught.

5:5    西門說，夫子，我們整夜勞力，並沒有打著什麼。但依從你的話，我就下網。
And Simon answering said unto him, Master, we have toiled all the night, and have taken nothing: nevertheless at thy word I will let down the net.

5:6    他們下了網，就圈住許多魚，網險些裂開。
And when they had this done, they inclosed a great multitude of fishes: and their net brake.

5:7    便招呼那隻船上的同伴來幫助。他們就來把魚裝滿了兩隻船，甚至船要沉下去。
And they beckoned unto their partners, which were in the other ship, that they should come and help them. And they came, and filled both the ships, so that they began to sink.

5:8    西門彼得看見，就俯伏在耶穌膝前，說，主阿，離開我，我是個罪人。
When Simon Peter saw it, he fell down at Jesus' knees, saying, Depart from me; for I am a sinful man, O Lord.

5:9    他和一切同在的人，都驚訝這一網所打的魚。
For he was astonished, and all that were with him, at the draught of the fishes which they had taken:

5:10    他的夥伴西庇太的兒子，雅各，約翰，也是這樣。耶穌對西門說，不要怕，從今以後，你要得人了。
And so was also James, and John, the sons of Zebedee, which were partners with Simon. And Jesus said unto Simon, Fear not; from henceforth thou shalt catch men.

5:11    他們把兩隻船攏了岸，就撇下所有的跟從了耶穌。
And when they had brought their ships to land, they forsook all, and followed him.

5:12    有一回耶穌在一個城裡，有人滿身長了大麻瘋，看見他就俯伏在地，求他說，主若肯，必能叫我潔淨了。
And it came to pass, when he was in a certain city, behold a man full of leprosy: who seeing Jesus fell on his face, and besought him, saying, Lord, if thou wilt, thou canst make me clean.

5:13    耶穌伸手摸他說，我肯，你潔淨了吧。大麻瘋立刻就離了他的身。
And he put forth his hand, and touched him, saying, I will: be thou clean. And immediately the leprosy departed from him.

5:14    耶穌囑咐他，你切不可告訴人。只要去把身體給祭司察看，又要為你得了潔淨，照摩西所吩咐的，獻上禮物對眾人作證據。
And he charged him to tell no man: but go, and shew thyself to the priest, and offer for thy cleansing, according as Moses commanded, for a testimony unto them.

5:15    但耶穌的名聲越發傳揚出去。有極多的人聚集來聽道，也指望醫治他們的病。
But so much the more went there a fame abroad of him: and great multitudes came together to hear, and to be healed by him of their infirmities.

5:16    耶穌卻退到曠野去禱告。
And he withdrew himself into the wilderness, and prayed.

5:17    有一天耶穌教訓人，有法利賽人和教法師在旁邊坐著，他們是從加利利各鄉村和猶太並耶路撒冷來的。主的能力與耶穌同在，使他能醫治病人。
And it came to pass on a certain day, as he was teaching, that there were Pharisees and doctors of the law sitting by, which were come out of every town of Galilee, and Judaea, and Jerusalem: and the power of the Lord was present to heal them.

5:18    有人用褥子抬著一個癱子，要抬進去放在耶穌面前，
And, behold, men brought in a bed a man which was taken with a palsy: and they sought means to bring him in, and to lay him before him.

5:19    卻因人多，尋不出法子抬進去，就上了房頂，從瓦間把他連褥子縋到當中，正在耶穌面前。
And when they could not find by what way they might bring him in because of the multitude, they went upon the housetop, and let him down through the tiling with his couch into the midst before Jesus.

5:20    耶穌見他們的信心，就對癱子說，你的罪赦了。
And when he saw their faith, he said unto him, Man, thy sins are forgiven thee.

5:21    文士和法利賽人就議論說，這說僭妄話的是誰。除了神以外，誰能赦罪呢。
And the scribes and the Pharisees began to reason, saying, Who is this which speaketh blasphemies? Who can forgive sins, but God alone?

5:22    耶穌知道他們所議論的，就說，你們心裡議論的是什麼呢。
But when Jesus perceived their thoughts, he answering said unto them, What reason ye in your hearts?

5:23    或說，你的罪赦了，或說，你起來行走，那一樣容易呢。
Whether is easier, to say, Thy sins be forgiven thee; or to say, Rise up and walk?

5:24    但要叫你們知道人子在地上有赦罪的權柄，就對癱子說，我吩咐你起來，拿你的褥子回家去吧。
But that ye may know that the Son of man hath power upon earth to forgive sins, (he said unto the sick of the palsy,) I say unto thee, Arise, and take up thy couch, and go into thine house.

5:25    那人當眾人面前，立刻起來，拿著他躺臥的褥子回家去，歸榮耀與神。
And immediately he rose up before them, and took up that whereon he lay, and departed to his own house, glorifying God.

5:26    眾人都驚奇，也歸榮耀與神，並滿心懼怕，說，我們今日看見非常的事了。
And they were all amazed, and they glorified God, and were filled with fear, saying, We have seen strange things to day.

5:27    這事以後，耶穌出去，看見一個稅吏，名叫利未，坐在稅關上，就對他說，你跟從我來。
And after these things he went forth, and saw a publican, named Levi, sitting at the receipt of custom: and he said unto him, Follow me.

5:28    他就撇下所有的，起來，跟從了耶穌。
And he left all, rose up, and followed him.

5:29    利未在自己家裡，為耶穌大擺筵席。有許多稅吏和別人，與他們一同坐席。
And Levi made him a great feast in his own house: and there was a great company of publicans and of others that sat down with them.

5:30    法利賽人和文士，就向耶穌的門徒發怨言，說，你們為什麼和稅吏，並罪人，一同吃喝呢。
But their scribes and Pharisees murmured against his disciples, saying, Why do ye eat and drink with publicans and sinners?

5:31    耶穌對他們說，無病的人用不著醫生。有病的人才用得著。
And Jesus answering said unto them, They that are whole need not a physician; but they that are sick.

5:32    我來本不是召義人悔改。乃是召罪人悔改。
I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance.

5:33    他們說，約翰的門徒屢次禁食祈禱，法利賽人的門徒也是這樣。惟獨你的門徒又吃又喝。
And they said unto him, Why do the disciples of John fast often, and make prayers, and likewise the disciples of the Pharisees; but thine eat and drink?

5:34    耶穌對他們說，新郎和陪伴之人同在的時候，豈能叫陪伴之人禁食呢。
And he said unto them, Can ye make the children of the bridechamber fast, while the bridegroom is with them?

5:35    但日子將到，新郎要離開他們，那日他們就要禁食了。
But the days will come, when the bridegroom shall be taken away from them, and then shall they fast in those days.

5:36    耶穌又設一個比喻，對他們說，沒有人把新衣服撕下一塊來，補在舊衣服上。若是這樣，就把新的撕破了，並且所撕下來的那塊新的，和舊的也不相稱。
And he spake also a parable unto them; No man putteth a piece of a new garment upon an old; if otherwise, then both the new maketh a rent, and the piece that was taken out of the new agreeth not with the old.

5:37    也沒有人把新酒裝在舊皮袋裡。若是這樣，新酒必將皮袋裂開，酒便漏出來，皮袋也就壞了。
And no man putteth new wine into old bottles; else the new wine will burst the bottles, and be spilled, and the bottles shall perish.

5:38    但新酒必須裝在新皮袋裡。
But new wine must be put into new bottles; and both are preserved.

5:39    沒有人喝了陳酒又想喝新的，他總說陳的好。
No man also having drunk old wine straightway desireth new: for he saith, The old is better.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


6:1    有一個安息日，耶穌從麥地經過。他的門徒掐了麥穗，用手搓著吃。
And it came to pass on the second sabbath after the first, that he went through the corn fields; and his disciples plucked the ears of corn, and did eat, rubbing them in their hands.

6:2    有幾個法利賽人說，你們為什麼作安息日不可作的事呢。
And certain of the Pharisees said unto them, Why do ye that which is not lawful to do on the sabbath days?

6:3    耶穌對他們說，經上記著大衛和跟從他的人，飢餓之時所作的事，連這個你們也沒有念過嗎。
And Jesus answering them said, Have ye not read so much as this, what David did, when himself was an hungred, and they which were with him;

6:4    他怎嗎進了神的殿，拿陳設餅吃，又給跟從的人吃。這餅除了祭司以外，別人都不可吃。
How he went into the house of God, and did take and eat the shewbread, and gave also to them that were with him; which it is not lawful to eat but for the priests alone?

6:5    又對他們說，人子是安息日的主。
And he said unto them, That the Son of man is Lord also of the sabbath.

6:6    又有一個安息日，耶穌進了會堂教訓人。在那裡有一個人右手枯乾了。
And it came to pass also on another sabbath, that he entered into the synagogue and taught: and there was a man whose right hand was withered.

6:7    文士和法利賽人窺探耶穌，在安息日治病不治病。要得把柄去告他。
And the scribes and Pharisees watched him, whether he would heal on the sabbath day; that they might find an accusation against him.

6:8    耶穌卻知道他們的意念。就對那枯乾一隻手的人說，起來，站在當中。那人就起來站著。
But he knew their thoughts, and said to the man which had the withered hand, Rise up, and stand forth in the midst. And he arose and stood forth.

6:9    耶穌對他們說，我問你們，在安息日行善行惡，救命害命，那樣是可以的呢。
Then said Jesus unto them, I will ask you one thing; Is it lawful on the sabbath days to do good, or to do evil? to save life, or to destroy it?

6:10    他就周圍看著他們眾人，對那人說，伸出手來。他把手一伸，手就復了原。
And looking round about upon them all, he said unto the man, Stretch forth thy hand. And he did so: and his hand was restored whole as the other.

6:11    他們就滿心大怒，彼此商議，怎樣處治耶穌。
And they were filled with madness; and communed one with another what they might do to Jesus.

6:12    那時耶穌出去上山禱告。整夜禱告神。
And it came to pass in those days, that he went out into a mountain to pray, and continued all night in prayer to God.

6:13    到了天亮，叫他的門徒來。就從他們中間挑選十二個人，稱他們為使徒。
And when it was day, he called unto him his disciples: and of them he chose twelve, whom also he named apostles;

6:14    這十二個人有西門，耶穌又給他起名叫彼得，還有他兄弟安得烈，又有雅各和約翰，腓力和巴多羅買，
Simon, (whom he also named Peter,) and Andrew his brother, James and John, Philip and Bartholomew,

6:15    馬太和多馬，亞勒腓的兒子雅各，和奮銳黨的西門，
Matthew and Thomas, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon called Zelotes,

6:16    雅各的兒子猶大，（兒子或作兄弟）和賣主的加略人猶大。
And Judas the brother of James, and Judas Iscariot, which also was the traitor.

6:17    耶穌和他們下了山，站在一塊平地上。同站的有許多門徒，又有許多百姓，從猶太全地，和耶路撒冷，並推羅西頓的海邊來。都要聽他講道，又指望醫治他們的病。
And he came down with them, and stood in the plain, and the company of his disciples, and a great multitude of people out of all Judaea and Jerusalem, and from the sea coast of Tyre and Sidon, which came to hear him, and to be healed of their diseases;

6:18    還有被汙鬼纏磨的，也得了醫治。
And they that were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed.

6:19    眾人都想要摸他。因為有能力從他身上發出來，醫好了他們。
And the whole multitude sought to touch him: for there went virtue out of him, and healed them all.

6:20    耶穌舉目看著門徒說，你們貧窮的人有福了。因為神的國是你們的。
And he lifted up his eyes on his disciples, and said, Blessed be ye poor: for yours is the kingdom of God.



6:21    你們飢餓的人有福了。因為你們將要飽足。你們哀哭的人有福了。因為你們將要喜笑。
Blessed are ye that hunger now: for ye shall be filled. Blessed are ye that weep now: for ye shall laugh.

6:22    人為人子恨惡你們，拒絕你們，辱罵你們，棄掉你們的名，以為是惡，你們就有福了。
Blessed are ye, when men shall hate you, and when they shall separate you from their company, and shall reproach you, and cast out your name as evil, for the Son of man's sake.

6:23    當那日你們要歡喜跳躍。因為你們在天上的賞賜是大的。他們的祖宗待先知也是這樣。
Rejoice ye in that day, and leap for joy: for, behold, your reward is great in heaven: for in the like manner did their fathers unto the prophets.

6:24    但你們富足的人有禍了。因為你們受過你們的安慰。
But woe unto you that are rich! for ye have received your consolation.

6:25    你們飽足的人有禍了。因為你們將要飢餓。你們喜笑的人有禍了。因為你們將要哀慟哭泣。
Woe unto you that are full! for ye shall hunger. Woe unto you that laugh now! for ye shall mourn and weep.

6:26    人都說你們好的時候，你們就有禍了。因為他們的祖宗待假先知也是這樣。
Woe unto you, when all men shall speak well of you! for so did their fathers to the false prophets.

6:27    只是我告訴你們這聽道的人，你們的仇敵要愛他，恨你們的要待他好。
But I say unto you which hear, Love your enemies, do good to them which hate you,

6:28    咒詛你們的要為他祝福，凌辱你們的要為他禱告。
Bless them that curse you, and pray for them which despitefully use you.

6:29    有人打你這邊的臉，連那邊的臉也由他打。有人奪你的外衣，連裡衣也由他拿去。
And unto him that smiteth thee on the one cheek offer also the other; and him that taketh away thy cloak forbid not to take thy coat also.

6:30    凡求你的，就給他。有人奪你的東西去，不用再要回來。
Give to every man that asketh of thee; and of him that taketh away thy goods ask them not again.

6:31    你們願意人怎樣待你們，你們也要怎樣待人。
And as ye would that men should do to you, do ye also to them likewise.

6:32    你們若單愛那愛你們的人，有什麼可酬謝的呢。就是罪人也愛那愛他們的人。
For if ye love them which love you, what thank have ye? for sinners also love those that love them.

6:33    你們若善待那善待你們的人，有什麼可酬謝的呢。就是罪人也是這樣行。
And if ye do good to them which do good to you, what thank have ye? for sinners also do even the same.

6:34    你們若借給人，指望從他收回，有什麼可酬謝的呢。就是罪人也借給罪人，要如數收回。
And if ye lend to them of whom ye hope to receive, what thank have ye? for sinners also lend to sinners, to receive as much again.

6:35    你們倒要愛仇敵，也要善待他們，並要借給人不指望償還。你們的賞賜就必大了，你們也必作至高者的兒子。因為他恩待那忘恩的和作惡的。
But love ye your enemies, and do good, and lend, hoping for nothing again; and your reward shall be great, and ye shall be the children of the Highest: for he is kind unto the unthankful and to the evil.

6:36    你們要慈悲，像你們的父慈悲一樣。
Be ye therefore merciful, as your Father also is merciful.

6:37    你們不要論斷人，就不被論斷。你們不要定人的罪，就不被定罪。你們要饒恕人，就必蒙饒恕。（饒恕原文作釋放）
Judge not, and ye shall not be judged: condemn not, and ye shall not be condemned: forgive, and ye shall be forgiven:

6:38    你們要給人，就必有給你們的。並且用十足的升斗，連搖帶按，上尖下流的，倒在你們懷裡。因為你們用什麼量器量給人，也必用什麼量器量給你們。
Give, and it shall be given unto you; good measure, pressed down, and shaken together, and running over, shall men give into your bosom. For with the same measure that ye mete withal it shall be measured to you again.

6:39    耶穌又用比喻對他們說，瞎子豈能領瞎子，兩個人不是都要掉在坑裡嗎。
And he spake a parable unto them, Can the blind lead the blind? shall they not both fall into the ditch?

6:40    學生不能高過先生。凡學成了的不過和先生一樣。
The disciple is not above his master: but every one that is perfect shall be as his master.

6:41    為什麼看見你弟兄眼中有刺，卻不想自己眼中有梁木呢。
And why beholdest thou the mote that is in thy brother's eye, but perceivest not the beam that is in thine own eye?

6:42    你不見自己眼中有梁木。怎能對你弟兄說，容我去掉你眼中的刺呢。你這假冒為善的人，先去掉自己眼中的梁木，然後才能看得清楚，去掉你兄弟眼中的刺。
Either how canst thou say to thy brother, Brother, let me pull out the mote that is in thine eye, when thou thyself beholdest not the beam that is in thine own eye? Thou hypocrite, cast out first the beam out of thine own eye, and then shalt thou see clearly to pull out the mote that is in thy brother's eye.

6:43    因為沒有好樹結壞果子。也沒有壞樹結好果子。
For a good tree bringeth not forth corrupt fruit; neither doth a corrupt tree bring forth good fruit.

6:44    凡樹木看果子，就可以認出他來。人不是從荊棘上摘無花果，也不是從蒺？？裡摘葡萄。
For every tree is known by his own fruit. For of thorns men do not gather figs, nor of a bramble bush gather they grapes.

6:45    善人從他心裡所存的善，就發出善來。惡人從他心裡所存的惡，就發出惡來。因為心裡所充滿的，口裡就說出來。
A good man out of the good treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is good; and an evil man out of the evil treasure of his heart bringeth forth that which is evil: for of the abundance of the heart his mouth speaketh.

6:46    你們為什麼稱呼我主阿，主阿，卻不遵我的話行呢。
And why call ye me, Lord, Lord, and do not the things which I say?

6:47    凡到我這裡來，聽見我的話就去行的，我要告訴你們他像什麼人。
Whosoever cometh to me, and heareth my sayings, and doeth them, I will shew you to whom he is like:

6:48    他像一個人蓋房子，深深的挖地，把根基安在磐石上。到發大水的時候，水衝那房子，房子總不能搖動。因為根基立在磐石上。有古卷作因為蓋造得好
He is like a man which built an house, and digged deep, and laid the foundation on a rock: and when the flood arose, the stream beat vehemently upon that house, and could not shake it: for it was founded upon a rock.

6:49    惟有聽見不去行的，就像一個人在土地上蓋房子，沒有根基。水一衝，隨即倒塌了，並且那房子壞得很大。
But he that heareth, and doeth not, is like a man that without a foundation built an house upon the earth; against which the stream did beat vehemently, and immediately it fell; and the ruin of that house was great.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


7:1    耶穌對百姓講完了這一切的話，就進了迦百農。
Now when he had ended all his sayings in the audience of the people, he entered into Capernaum.

7:2    有一個百夫長所寶貴的僕人，害病快要死了。
And a certain centurion's servant, who was dear unto him, was sick, and ready to die.

7:3    百夫長風聞耶穌的事，就託猶太人的幾個長老，去求耶穌來救他的僕人。
And when he heard of Jesus, he sent unto him the elders of the Jews, beseeching him that he would come and heal his servant.

7:4    他們到了耶穌那裡，就切切的求他說，你給他行這事，是他所配得的。
And when they came to Jesus, they besought him instantly, saying, That he was worthy for whom he should do this:

7:5    因為他愛我們的百姓，給我們建造會堂。
For he loveth our nation, and he hath built us a synagogue.

7:6    耶穌就和他們同去。離那家不遠，百夫長託幾個朋友去見耶穌，對他說，主阿，不要勞動。因你到我舍下，我不敢當。
Then Jesus went with them. And when he was now not far from the house, the centurion sent friends to him, saying unto him, Lord, trouble not thyself: for I am not worthy that thou shouldest enter under my roof:

7:7    我也自以為不配去見你，只要你說一句話，我的僕人就必好了。
Wherefore neither thought I myself worthy to come unto thee: but say in a word, and my servant shall be healed.

7:8    因為我在人的權下，也有兵在我以下，對這個說去，他就去。對那個說來，他就來。對我的僕人說，你作這事，他就去作。
For I also am a man set under authority, having under me soldiers, and I say unto one, Go, and he goeth; and to another, Come, and he cometh; and to my servant, Do this, and he doeth it.

7:9    耶穌聽見這話，就希奇他，轉身對跟隨的眾人說，我告訴你們，這嗎大的信心，就是在以色列中我也沒有遇見過。
When Jesus heard these things, he marvelled at him, and turned him about, and said unto the people that followed him, I say unto you, I have not found so great faith, no, not in Israel.



7:10    那託來的人回到百夫長家裡，看見僕人已經好了。
And they that were sent, returning to the house, found the servant whole that had been sick.

7:11    過不了多時，有古卷作次日耶穌往一座城去，這城名叫拿因，他的門徒和極多的人與他同行。
And it came to pass the day after, that he went into a city called Nain; and many of his disciples went with him, and much people.

7:12    將近城門，有一個死人被抬出來。這人是他母親獨生的兒子，他母親又是寡婦。有城裡的許多人同著寡婦送殯。
Now when he came nigh to the gate of the city, behold, there was a dead man carried out, the only son of his mother, and she was a widow: and much people of the city was with her.

7:13    主看見那寡婦就憐憫他，對他說，不要哭。
And when the Lord saw her, he had compassion on her, and said unto her, Weep not.

7:14    於是進前按著槓，抬的人就站住了。耶穌說，少年人，我吩咐你起來。
And he came and touched the bier: and they that bare him stood still. And he said, Young man, I say unto thee, Arise.

7:15    那死人就坐起，並且說話。耶穌便把他交給他母親。
And he that was dead sat up, and began to speak. And he delivered him to his mother.

7:16    眾人都驚奇，歸榮耀與神說，有大先知在我們中間興起來了。又說，神眷顧了他的百姓。
And there came a fear on all: and they glorified God, saying, That a great prophet is risen up among us; and, That God hath visited his people.

7:17    他這事的風聲就傳遍了猶太，和周圍地方。
And this rumour of him went forth throughout all Judaea, and throughout all the region round about.

7:18    約翰的門徒把這些事都告訴約翰。
And the disciples of John shewed him of all these things.

7:19    他便叫了兩個門徒來，打發他們到主那裡去，說，那將要來的是你嗎，還是我們等候別人呢。
And John calling unto him two of his disciples sent them to Jesus, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?

7:20    那兩個人來到耶穌那裡，說，施洗的約翰打發我們來問你，那將要來的是你嗎，還是我們等候別人呢。
When the men were come unto him, they said, John Baptist hath sent us unto thee, saying, Art thou he that should come? or look we for another?

7:21    正當那時候，耶穌治好了許多有疾病的，受災患的，被惡鬼附著的。又開恩叫好些瞎子能看見。
And in that same hour he cured many of their infirmities and plagues, and of evil spirits; and unto many that were blind he gave sight.

7:22    耶穌回答說，你們去把所看見所聽見的事告訴約翰。就是瞎子看見，瘸子行走，長大麻瘋的潔淨，聾子聽見，死人復活，窮人有福音傳給他們。
Then Jesus answering said unto them, Go your way, and tell John what things ye have seen and heard; how that the blind see, the lame walk, the lepers are cleansed, the deaf hear, the dead are raised, to the poor the gospel is preached.

7:23    凡不因我跌倒的，就有福了。
And blessed is he, whosoever shall not be offended in me.

7:24    約翰所差來的人既走了，耶穌就對眾人講論約翰說，你們從前出去到曠野，是要看什麼呢。要看風吹動的蘆葦嗎。
And when the messengers of John were departed, he began to speak unto the people concerning John, What went ye out into the wilderness for to see? A reed shaken with the wind?

7:25    你們出去到底是要看什麼。要看穿細軟衣服的人嗎。那穿華麗衣服宴樂度日的人，是在王宮裡。
But what went ye out for to see? A man clothed in soft raiment? Behold, they which are gorgeously apparelled, and live delicately, are in kings' courts.

7:26    你們出去究竟是要看什麼。要看先知嗎。我告訴你們，是的，他比先知大多了。
But what went ye out for to see? A prophet? Yea, I say unto you, and much more than a prophet.

7:27    經上記著說，我要差遣我的使者在你前面，豫備道路。所說的就是這個人。
This is he, of whom it is written, Behold, I send my messenger before thy face, which shall prepare thy way before thee.

7:28    我告訴你們，凡婦人所生的，沒有一個大過約翰的。然而神國裡最小的比他還大。
For I say unto you, Among those that are born of women there is not a greater prophet than John the Baptist: but he that is least in the kingdom of God is greater than he.

7:29    眾百姓和稅吏，既受過約翰的洗，聽見這話，就以神為義。
And all the people that heard him, and the publicans, justified God, being baptized with the baptism of John.

7:30    但法利賽人和律法師，沒有受過約翰的洗，竟為自己廢棄了神的旨意。二十九三十兩節或作眾百姓和稅吏聽見了約翰的話就受了他的洗便以神為義但法利賽人和律法師不受約翰的洗，竟為自己廢棄了神的旨意。
But the Pharisees and lawyers rejected the counsel of God against themselves, being not baptized of him.

7:31    主又說，這樣，我可用什麼比這世代的人呢。他們好像什麼呢。
And the Lord said, Whereunto then shall I liken the men of this generation? and to what are they like?



7:32    好像孩童坐在街市上，彼此呼叫說，我們向你們吹笛，你們不跳舞，我們向你們舉哀，你們不啼哭。
They are like unto children sitting in the marketplace, and calling one to another, and saying, We have piped unto you, and ye have not danced; we have mourned to you, and ye have not wept.

7:33    施洗的約翰來，不吃餅，不喝酒。你們說他是被鬼附著的。
For John the Baptist came neither eating bread nor drinking wine; and ye say, He hath a devil.

7:34    人子來，也吃也喝。你們說他是貪食好酒的人，是稅吏和罪人的朋友。
The Son of man is come eating and drinking; and ye say, Behold a gluttonous man, and a winebibber, a friend of publicans and sinners!

7:35    但智慧之子，都以智慧為是。
But wisdom is justified of all her children.

7:36    有一個法利賽人，請耶穌和他吃飯。耶穌就到法利賽人家裡去坐席。
And one of the Pharisees desired him that he would eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house, and sat down to meat.

7:37    那城裡有一個女人，是個罪人。知道耶穌在法利賽人家裡坐席，就拿著盛香膏的玉瓶，
And, behold, a woman in the city, which was a sinner, when she knew that Jesus sat at meat in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster box of ointment,

7:38    站在耶穌背後，挨著他的腳哭，眼淚溼了耶穌的腳，就用自己的頭髮擦乾，又用嘴連連親他的腳，把香膏抹上。
And stood at his feet behind him weeping, and began to wash his feet with tears, and did wipe them with the hairs of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment.

7:39    請耶穌的法利賽人看見這事，心裡說，這人若是先知，必知道摸他的是誰，是個怎樣的女人，乃是個罪人。
Now when the Pharisee which had bidden him saw it, he spake within himself, saying, This man, if he were a prophet, would have known who and what manner of woman this is that toucheth him: for she is a sinner.

7:40    耶穌對他說，西門，我有句話要對你說。西門說，夫子，請說。
And Jesus answering said unto him, Simon, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And he saith, Master, say on.

7:41    耶穌說，一個債主，有兩個人欠他的債。一個欠他五十兩銀子，一個欠五兩銀子。
There was a certain creditor which had two debtors: the one owed five hundred pence, and the other fifty.

7:42    因為他們無力償還，債主就開恩免了他們兩個人的債。這兩個人那一個更愛他呢。
And when they had nothing to pay, he frankly forgave them both. Tell me therefore, which of them will love him most?

7:43    西門回答說，我想是那多得恩免的人。耶穌說，你斷的不錯。
Simon answered and said, I suppose that he, to whom he forgave most. And he said unto him, Thou hast rightly judged.

7:44    於是轉過來向著那女人，便對西門說，你看見這女人嗎。我進了你的家，你沒有給我水洗腳。但這女人用眼淚溼了我的腳，用頭髮擦乾。
And he turned to the woman, and said unto Simon, Seest thou this woman? I entered into thine house, thou gavest me no water for my feet: but she hath washed my feet with tears, and wiped them with the hairs of her head.

7:45    你沒有與我親嘴，但這女人從我進來的時候，就不住的用嘴親我的腳。
Thou gavest me no kiss: but this woman since the time I came in hath not ceased to kiss my feet.

7:46    你沒有用油抹我的頭，但這女人用香膏抹我的腳。
My head with oil thou didst not anoint: but this woman hath anointed my feet with ointment.

7:47    所以我告訴你，他許多的罪都赦免了。因為他的愛多。但那赦免少的，他的愛就少。
Wherefore I say unto thee, Her sins, which are many, are forgiven; for she loved much: but to whom little is forgiven, the same loveth little.

7:48    於是對那女人說，你的罪赦免了。
And he said unto her, Thy sins are forgiven.

7:49    同席的人心裡說，這是什麼人，竟赦免人的罪呢。
And they that sat at meat with him began to say within themselves, Who is this that forgiveth sins also?

7:50    耶穌對那女人說，你的信救了你，平平安安的回去吧。
And he said to the woman, Thy faith hath saved thee; go in peace.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


8:1    過了不多日，耶穌周遊各城各鄉傳道，宣講神國的福音。和他同去的有十二個門徒，
And it came to pass afterward, that he went throughout every city and village, preaching and shewing the glad tidings of the kingdom of God: and the twelve were with him,

8:2    還有被惡鬼所附，被疾病所累，已經治好的幾個婦女，內中有稱為抹大拉的馬利亞，曾有七個鬼從他身上趕出來。
And certain women, which had been healed of evil spirits and infirmities, Mary called Magdalene, out of whom went seven devils,

8:3    又有希律的家宰苦撒的妻子約亞拿，並蘇撒拿，和好些別的婦女，都是用自己的財物供給耶穌和門徒。
And Joanna the wife of Chuza Herod's steward, and Susanna, and many others, which ministered unto him of their substance.

8:4    當許多人聚集，又有人從各城裡出來見耶穌的時候，耶穌就用比喻說，
And when much people were gathered together, and were come to him out of every city, he spake by a parable:

8:5    有一個撒種的出去撒種。撒的時候，有落在路旁的，被人踐踏，天上的飛鳥又來吃盡了。
A sower went out to sow his seed: and as he sowed, some fell by the way side; and it was trodden down, and the fowls of the air devoured it.

8:6    有落在磐石上的，一出來就枯乾了，因為得不著滋潤。
And some fell upon a rock; and as soon as it was sprung up, it withered away, because it lacked moisture.

8:7    有落在荊棘裡的，荊棘一同生長，把他擠住了。
And some fell among thorns; and the thorns sprang up with it, and choked it.

8:8    又有落在好土裡的，生長起來，結實百倍。耶穌說了這些話，就大聲說，有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
And other fell on good ground, and sprang up, and bare fruit an hundredfold. And when he had said these things, he cried, He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.

8:9    門徒問耶穌說，這比喻是什麼意思呢。
And his disciples asked him, saying, What might this parable be?

8:10    他說，神國的奧祕，只叫你們知道。至於別人，就用比喻，叫他們看也看不見，聽也聽不明。
And he said, Unto you it is given to know the mysteries of the kingdom of God: but to others in parables; that seeing they might not see, and hearing they might not understand.

8:11    這比喻乃是這樣。種子就是神的道。
Now the parable is this: The seed is the word of God.

8:12    那些在路旁的，就是人聽了道，隨後魔鬼來，從他們心裡把道奪去，恐怕他們信了得救。
Those by the way side are they that hear; then cometh the devil, and taketh away the word out of their hearts, lest they should believe and be saved.

8:13    那些在磐石上的，就是人聽道，喜歡領受，但心中沒有根，不過暫時相信，及至遇見試煉就後退了。
They on the rock are they, which, when they hear, receive the word with joy; and these have no root, which for a while believe, and in time of temptation fall away.

8:14    那落在荊棘裡的，就是人聽了道，走開以後，被今生的思慮錢財宴樂擠住了，便結不出成熟的子粒來。
And that which fell among thorns are they, which, when they have heard, go forth, and are choked with cares and riches and pleasures of this life, and bring no fruit to perfection.

8:15    那落在好土裡的，就是人聽了道，持守在誠實善良的心裡，並且忍耐著結實。
But that on the good ground are they, which in an honest and good heart, having heard the word, keep it, and bring forth fruit with patience.

8:16    沒有人點燈用器皿蓋上，或放在床底下，乃是放在燈臺上，叫進來的人看見亮光。
No man, when he hath lighted a candle, covereth it with a vessel, or putteth it under a bed; but setteth it on a candlestick, that they which enter in may see the light.

8:17    因為掩藏的事，沒有不顯出來的。隱瞞的事，沒有不露出來被人知道的。
For nothing is secret, that shall not be made manifest; neither any thing hid, that shall not be known and come abroad.

8:18    所以你們應當小心怎樣聽。因為凡有的，還要加給他。凡沒有的，連他自以為有的，也要奪去。
Take heed therefore how ye hear: for whosoever hath, to him shall be given; and whosoever hath not, from him shall be taken even that which he seemeth to have.

8:19    耶穌的母親和他弟兄來了，因為人多，不得到他跟前。
Then came to him his mother and his brethren, and could not come at him for the press.

8:20    有人告訴他說，你母親和你弟兄，站在外邊，要見你。
And it was told him by certain which said, Thy mother and thy brethren stand without, desiring to see thee.

8:21    耶穌回答說，聽了神之道而遵行的人，就是我的母親，我的弟兄了。
And he answered and said unto them, My mother and my brethren are these which hear the word of God, and do it.

8:22    有一天耶穌和門徒上了船，對門徒說，我們可以渡到湖那邊去。他們就開了船。
Now it came to pass on a certain day, that he went into a ship with his disciples: and he said unto them, Let us go over unto the other side of the lake. And they launched forth.

8:23    正行的時候，耶穌睡著了。湖上忽然起了暴風，船將滿了水，甚是危險。
But as they sailed he fell asleep: and there came down a storm of wind on the lake; and they were filled with water, and were in jeopardy.

8:24    門徒來叫醒了他，說，夫子，我們喪命喇。耶穌醒了，斥責那狂風大浪。風浪就止住，平靜了。
And they came to him, and awoke him, saying, Master, master, we perish. Then he arose, and rebuked the wind and the raging of the water: and they ceased, and there was a calm.

8:25    耶穌對他們說，你們的信心在那裡呢。他們又懼怕，又希奇，彼此說，這到底是誰，他吩咐風和水，連風和水也聽從他了。
And he said unto them, Where is your faith? And they being afraid wondered, saying one to another, What manner of man is this! for he commandeth even the winds and water, and they obey him.

8:26    他們到了格拉森有古卷作加大拉人的地方，就是加利利的對面。
And they arrived at the country of the Gadarenes, which is over against Galilee.

8:27    耶穌上了岸，就有城裡一個被鬼附著的人，迎面而來，這個人許久不穿衣服，不住房子，只住在墳塋裡。
And when he went forth to land, there met him out of the city a certain man, which had devils long time, and ware no clothes, neither abode in any house, but in the tombs.

8:28    他見了耶穌，就俯伏在他面前，大聲喊叫，說，至高神的兒子耶穌，我與你有什麼相干。求你不要叫我受苦。
When he saw Jesus, he cried out, and fell down before him, and with a loud voice said, What have I to do with thee, Jesus, thou Son of God most high? I beseech thee, torment me not.

8:29    是因耶穌曾吩咐汙鬼從那人身上出來。原來這鬼屢次抓住他，他常被人看守，又被鐵鏈和腳鐐捆鎖，他竟把鎖鏈掙斷，被鬼趕到曠野去。
(For he had commanded the unclean spirit to come out of the man. For oftentimes it had caught him: and he was kept bound with chains and in fetters; and he brake the bands, and was driven of the devil into the wilderness.)

8:30    耶穌問他說，你名叫什麼。他說，我名叫群。這是因為附著他的鬼多。
And Jesus asked him, saying, What is thy name? And he said, Legion: because many devils were entered into him.

8:31    鬼就央求耶穌，不要吩咐他們到無底坑裡去。
And they besought him that he would not command them to go out into the deep.

8:32    那裡有一大群豬，在山上吃食。鬼央求耶穌，準他們進入豬裡去。耶穌準了他們。
And there was there an herd of many swine feeding on the mountain: and they besought him that he would suffer them to enter into them. And he suffered them.

8:33    鬼就從那人出來，進入豬裡去。於是那群豬闖下山崖，投在湖裡淹死了。
Then went the devils out of the man, and entered into the swine: and the herd ran violently down a steep place into the lake, and were choked.

8:34    放豬的看見這事就逃跑了，去告訴城裡和鄉下的人。
When they that fed them saw what was done, they fled, and went and told it in the city and in the country.

8:35    眾人出來要看是什麼事。到了耶穌那裡，看見鬼所離開的那人，坐在耶穌腳前，穿著衣服，心裡明白過來，他們就害怕。
Then they went out to see what was done; and came to Jesus, and found the man, out of whom the devils were departed, sitting at the feet of Jesus, clothed, and in his right mind: and they were afraid.

8:36    看見這事的，便將被鬼附著的人怎嗎得救，告訴他們。
They also which saw it told them by what means he that was possessed of the devils was healed.

8:37    格拉森周圍的人，因為害怕得很，都求耶穌離開他們。耶穌就上船回去了。
Then the whole multitude of the country of the Gadarenes round about besought him to depart from them; for they were taken with great fear: and he went up into the ship, and returned back again.

8:38    鬼所離開的那人，懇求和耶穌同在。耶穌卻打發他回去，
Now the man out of whom the devils were departed besought him that he might be with him: but Jesus sent him away, saying,

8:39    說，你回家去，傳說神為你作了何等大的事。他就去滿城傳揚耶穌為他作了何等大的事。
Return to thine own house, and shew how great things God hath done unto thee. And he went his way, and published throughout the whole city how great things Jesus had done unto him.

8:40    耶穌回來的時候，眾人迎接他，因為他們都等候他。
And it came to pass, that, when Jesus was returned, the people gladly received him: for they were all waiting for him.

8:41    有一個管會堂的，名叫睚魯，來俯伏在耶穌腳前，求耶穌到他家裡去。
And, behold, there came a man named Jairus, and he was a ruler of the synagogue: and he fell down at Jesus' feet, and besought him that he would come into his house:



8:42    因為他有一個獨生女兒，約有十二歲，快要死了。耶穌去的時候，眾人擁擠他。
For he had one only daughter, about twelve years of age, and she lay a dying. But as he went the people thronged him.

8:43    有一個女人，患了十二年的血漏，在醫生手裡花盡了他一切養生的，並沒有一人能醫好他。
And a woman having an issue of blood twelve years, which had spent all her living upon physicians, neither could be healed of any,

8:44    他來到耶穌背後，摸他的衣裳？？子，血漏立刻就止住了。
Came behind him, and touched the border of his garment: and immediately her issue of blood stanched.

8:45    耶穌說，摸我的是誰。眾人都不承認，彼得和同行的人都說，夫子，眾人擁擁擠擠緊靠著你。有古卷在此有你還問摸我的是誰嗎
And Jesus said, Who touched me? When all denied, Peter and they that were with him said, Master, the multitude throng thee and press thee, and sayest thou, Who touched me?

8:46    耶穌說，總有人摸我。因我覺得有能力從我身上出去。
And Jesus said, Somebody hath touched me: for I perceive that virtue is gone out of me.

8:47    那女人知道不能隱藏，就戰戰兢兢的來俯伏在耶穌腳前，把摸他的緣故，和怎樣立刻得好了，當著眾人都說出來。
And when the woman saw that she was not hid, she came trembling, and falling down before him, she declared unto him before all the people for what cause she had touched him, and how she was healed immediately.

8:48    耶穌對他說，女兒，你的信救了你，平平安安的去吧。
And he said unto her, Daughter, be of good comfort: thy faith hath made thee whole; go in peace.

8:49    還說話的時候，有人從管會堂的家裡來說，你的女兒死了，不要勞動夫子。
While he yet spake, there cometh one from the ruler of the synagogue's house, saying to him, Thy daughter is dead; trouble not the Master.

8:50    耶穌聽見就對他說，不要怕，只要信，你的女兒就必得救。
But when Jesus heard it, he answered him, saying, Fear not: believe only, and she shall be made whole.

8:51    耶穌到了他的家，除了彼得，約翰，雅各，和女兒的父母，不許別人同他進去。
And when he came into the house, he suffered no man to go in, save Peter, and James, and John, and the father and the mother of the maiden.

8:52    眾人都為這女兒哀哭捶胸。耶穌說，不要哭，他不是死了，是睡著了。
And all wept, and bewailed her: but he said, Weep not; she is not dead, but sleepeth.

8:53    他們曉得女兒已經死了，就嗤笑耶穌。
And they laughed him to scorn, knowing that she was dead.

8:54    耶穌拉著他的手，呼叫說，女兒，起來吧。
And he put them all out, and took her by the hand, and called, saying, Maid, arise.

8:55    他的靈魂便回來，他立刻起來了。耶穌吩咐給他東西吃。
And her spirit came again, and she arose straightway: and he commanded to give her meat.

8:56    他的父母驚奇得很。耶穌囑咐他們，不要把所作的事告訴人。
And her parents were astonished: but he charged them that they should tell no man what was done.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


9:1    耶穌叫齊了十二個門徒，給他們能力權柄，制伏一切的鬼，醫治各樣的病。
Then he called his twelve disciples together, and gave them power and authority over all devils, and to cure diseases.

9:2    又差遣他們去宣傳神國的道，醫治病人。
And he sent them to preach the kingdom of God, and to heal the sick.

9:3    對他們說，行路的時候，不要帶柺杖，和口袋，不要帶食物，和銀子，也不要帶兩件褂子。
And he said unto them, Take nothing for your journey, neither staves, nor scrip, neither bread, neither money; neither have two coats apiece.

9:4    無論進那一家，就住在那裡，也從那裡起行。
And whatsoever house ye enter into, there abide, and thence depart.

9:5    凡不接待你們的，你們離開那城的時候，要把腳上的塵土跺下去，見證他們的不是。
And whosoever will not receive you, when ye go out of that city, shake off the very dust from your feet for a testimony against them.

9:6    門徒就出去，走遍各鄉，宣傳福音，到處治病。
And they departed, and went through the towns, preaching the gospel, and healing every where.

9:7    分封的王希律聽見耶穌所作的一切事，就遊移不定。因為有人說，是約翰從死裡復活。
Now Herod the tetrarch heard of all that was done by him: and he was perplexed, because that it was said of some, that John was risen from the dead;

9:8    又有人說，是以利亞顯現。還有人說，是古時的一個先知又活了。
And of some, that Elias had appeared; and of others, that one of the old prophets was risen again.

9:9    希律說，約翰我已經斬了，這卻是什麼人，我竟聽見這樣的事呢，就想要見他。
And Herod said, John have I beheaded: but who is this, of whom I hear such things? And he desired to see him.

9:10    使徒回來，將所作的事告訴耶穌。耶穌就帶他們暗暗的離開那裡，往一座城去，那城名叫伯賽大。
And the apostles, when they were returned, told him all that they had done. And he took them, and went aside privately into a desert place belonging to the city called Bethsaida.

9:11    但眾人知道了，就跟著他去。耶穌便接待他們，對他們講論神國得道，醫治那些需醫的人。
And the people, when they knew it, followed him: and he received them, and spake unto them of the kingdom of God, and healed them that had need of healing.

9:12    日頭快要平西，十二個門徒來對他說，請叫眾人散開，他們好往四面鄉里去借宿找吃的。因為我們這裡是野地。
And when the day began to wear away, then came the twelve, and said unto him, Send the multitude away, that they may go into the towns and country round about, and lodge, and get victuals: for we are here in a desert place.

9:13    耶穌說，你們給他們吃吧。門徒說，我們不過有五個餅，兩條魚。若不去為這許多人買食物就不彀。
But he said unto them, Give ye them to eat. And they said, We have no more but five loaves and two fishes; except we should go and buy meat for all this people.

9:14    那時，人數約有五千。耶穌對門徒說，叫他們一排一排的坐下，每排大約五十個人。
For they were about five thousand men. And he said to his disciples, Make them sit down by fifties in a company.

9:15    門徒就如此行，叫眾人都坐下。
And they did so, and made them all sit down.

9:16    耶穌拿著這五個餅，兩條魚，望著天祝福，擘開，遞給門徒擺在眾人面前。
Then he took the five loaves and the two fishes, and looking up to heaven, he blessed them, and brake, and gave to the disciples to set before the multitude.

9:17    他們就吃，並且都吃飽了。把剩下的零碎收拾起來，裝滿了十二籃子。
And they did eat, and were all filled: and there was taken up of fragments that remained to them twelve baskets.

9:18    耶穌自己禱告的時候，門徒也同他在那裡。耶穌問他們說，眾人說我是誰。
And it came to pass, as he was alone praying, his disciples were with him: and he asked them, saying, Whom say the people that I am?

9:19    他們說，有人說是施洗的約翰。有人說是以利亞。還有人說，是古時的一個先知又活了。
They answering said, John the Baptist; but some say, Elias; and others say, that one of the old prophets is risen again.

9:20    耶穌說，你們說我是誰。彼的回答說，是神所立的基督。
He said unto them, But whom say ye that I am? Peter answering said, The Christ of God.

9:21    耶穌切切的囑咐他們，不可將這事告訴人。
And he straitly charged them, and commanded them to tell no man that thing;

9:22    又說，人子必須受許多的苦，被長老祭司長和文士棄絕，並且被殺，第三日復活。
Saying, The Son of man must suffer many things, and be rejected of the elders and chief priests and scribes, and be slain, and be raised the third day.

9:23    耶穌又對眾人說，若有人要跟從我，就當捨己，天天背起他的十字架來，跟從我。
And he said to them all, If any man will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross daily, and follow me.

9:24    因為凡要救自己生命的，生命或作靈魂下同必喪掉生命。凡為我喪掉生命的，必救了生命。
For whosoever will save his life shall lose it: but whosoever will lose his life for my sake, the same shall save it.

9:25    人若賺得全世界，卻喪了自己，賠上自己，有什麼益處呢。
For what is a man advantaged, if he gain the whole world, and lose himself, or be cast away?

9:26    凡把我和我的道當作可恥的，人子在自己的榮耀裡，並天父與聖天使的榮耀裡，降臨的時候，也要把那人當作可恥的。
For whosoever shall be ashamed of me and of my words, of him shall the Son of man be ashamed, when he shall come in his own glory, and in his Father's, and of the holy angels.

9:27    我實在告訴你們，站在這裡的，有人在沒嘗死味以前，必看見神的國。
But I tell you of a truth, there be some standing here, which shall not taste of death, till they see the kingdom of God.

9:28    說了這話以後，約有八天，耶穌帶著彼得，約翰，雅各，上山去禱告。
And it came to pass about an eight days after these sayings, he took Peter and John and James, and went up into a mountain to pray.

9:29    正禱告的時候，他的面貌就改變了，衣服潔白放光。
And as he prayed, the fashion of his countenance was altered, and his raiment was white and glistering.

9:30    忽然有摩西以利亞兩個人，同耶穌說話。
And, behold, there talked with him two men, which were Moses and Elias:

9:31    他們在榮光裡顯現，談論耶穌去世的事，就是他在耶路撒冷將要成的事。
Who appeared in glory, and spake of his decease which he should accomplish at Jerusalem.

9:32    彼得和他的同伴都打盹，既清醒了，就看見耶穌的榮光，並同他站著的那兩個人。
But Peter and they that were with him were heavy with sleep: and when they were awake, they saw his glory, and the two men that stood with him.

9:33    二人正要和耶穌分離的時候，彼得對耶穌說，夫子，我們在這裡真好，可以搭三座棚，一座為你，一座為摩西，一座為以利亞。他卻不知道所說的是什麼。
And it came to pass, as they departed from him, Peter said unto Jesus, Master, it is good for us to be here: and let us make three tabernacles; one for thee, and one for Moses, and one for Elias: not knowing what he said.

9:34    說這話的時候，有一朵雲彩來遮蓋他們。他們進入雲彩裡就懼怕。
While he thus spake, there came a cloud, and overshadowed them: and they feared as they entered into the cloud.

9:35    有聲音從雲彩裡出來，說，這是我的兒子，我所揀選的，有古卷作這是我的愛子你們要聽他。
And there came a voice out of the cloud, saying, This is my beloved Son: hear him.

9:36    聲音住了，只見耶穌一人在那裡。當那些日子，門徒不題所見的事，一樣也不告訴人。
And when the voice was past, Jesus was found alone. And they kept it close, and told no man in those days any of those things which they had seen.

9:37    第二天，他們下了山，就有許多人迎見耶穌。
And it came to pass, that on the next day, when they were come down from the hill, much people met him.

9:38    其中有一人喊叫說，夫子，求你看顧我的兒子，因為他是我的獨生子。
And, behold, a man of the company cried out, saying, Master, I beseech thee, look upon my son: for he is mine only child.

9:39    他被鬼抓住，就忽然喊叫。鬼又叫他抽瘋，口中流沫，並且重重的傷害他，難以離開他。
And, lo, a spirit taketh him, and he suddenly crieth out; and it teareth him that he foameth again, and bruising him hardly departeth from him.

9:40    我求過你的門徒，把鬼趕出去，他們卻是不能。
And I besought thy disciples to cast him out; and they could not.

9:41    耶穌說，噯，這又不信又悖謬的世代阿，我在你們這裡，忍耐你們，要到幾時呢。將你的兒子帶到這裡來吧。
And Jesus answering said, O faithless and perverse generation, how long shall I be with you, and suffer you? Bring thy son hither.

9:42    正來的時候，鬼把他摔倒，叫他重重的抽瘋。耶穌就斥責那汙鬼，把孩子治好了，交給他的父親。
And as he was yet a coming, the devil threw him down, and tare him. And Jesus rebuked the unclean spirit, and healed the child, and delivered him again to his father.

9:43    眾人都詫異神的大能。大能或作威榮耶穌所作的一切事，眾人正希奇的時候，耶穌對門徒說，
And they were all amazed at the mighty power of God. But while they wondered every one at all things which Jesus did, he said unto his disciples,

9:44    你們要把這些話存在耳中。因為人子將要被交在人手裡。
Let these sayings sink down into your ears: for the Son of man shall be delivered into the hands of men.

9:45    他們不明白這話，意思乃是隱藏的，叫他們不能明白，他們也不敢問這話的意思。
But they understood not this saying, and it was hid from them, that they perceived it not: and they feared to ask him of that saying.

9:46    門徒中間起了議論，誰將為大。
Then there arose a reasoning among them, which of them should be greatest.

9:47    耶穌看出他們心中的議論，就領一個小孩子來，叫他站在自己旁邊。
And Jesus, perceiving the thought of their heart, took a child, and set him by him,

9:48    對他們說，凡為我名接待這小孩子的，就是接待我。凡接待我的，就是接待那差我來的。你們中間最小的，他便為大。
And said unto them, Whosoever shall receive this child in my name receiveth me: and whosoever shall receive me receiveth him that sent me: for he that is least among you all, the same shall be great.

9:49    約翰說，夫子，我們看見一個人奉你的名趕鬼，我們就禁止他。因為他不與我們一同跟從你。
And John answered and said, Master, we saw one casting out devils in thy name; and we forbad him, because he followeth not with us.

9:50    耶穌說，不要禁止他。因為不敵擋你們的，就是幫助你們的。
And Jesus said unto him, Forbid him not: for he that is not against us is for us.

9:51    耶穌被接上升的日子將到，他就定意向耶路撒冷去，
And it came to pass, when the time was come that he should be received up, he stedfastly set his face to go to Jerusalem,

9:52    便打發使者在他前頭走。他們到了撒瑪利亞的一個村莊，要為他豫備。
And sent messengers before his face: and they went, and entered into a village of the Samaritans, to make ready for him.

9:53    那裡的人不接待他，因他面向耶路撒冷去。
And they did not receive him, because his face was as though he would go to Jerusalem.

9:54    他的門徒，雅各，約翰，看見了，就說，主阿，你要我們吩咐火從天上降下來，燒滅他們，像以利亞所作的嗎。有古卷無像以利亞所作的數字
And when his disciples James and John saw this, they said, Lord, wilt thou that we command fire to come down from heaven, and consume them, even as Elias did?

9:55    耶穌轉身責備兩個門徒說，你們的今如何，你們並不知道。
But he turned, and rebuked them, and said, Ye know not what manner of spirit ye are of.

9:56    人子來不是要滅人的性命，性命或作靈魂下同是要救人的性命。說著就往別的村莊去了。有古卷只有五十五節首句五十六節末句
For the Son of man is not come to destroy men's lives, but to save them. And they went to another village.

9:57    他們走路的時候，有一人對耶穌說你無論往那裡去，我要跟從你。
And it came to pass, that, as they went in the way, a certain man said unto him, Lord, I will follow thee whithersoever thou goest.

9:58    耶穌說，狐狸有洞，天空的飛鳥有窩，只是人子沒有枕頭的地方。
And Jesus said unto him, Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests; but the Son of man hath not where to lay his head.

9:59    又對一個人說，跟從我來，那人說，主，容我先回去埋葬我的父親。
And he said unto another, Follow me. But he said, Lord, suffer me first to go and bury my father.

9:60    耶穌說，任憑死人埋葬他們的死人。你只管去傳揚神國的道。
Jesus said unto him, Let the dead bury their dead: but go thou and preach the kingdom of God.

9:61    又有一人說，主，我要跟從你。但容我先去辭別我家裡的人。
And another also said, Lord, I will follow thee; but let me first go bid them farewell, which are at home at my house.

9:62    耶穌說，手扶著犁向後看的，不配進神的國。
And Jesus said unto him, No man, having put his hand to the plough, and looking back, is fit for the kingdom of God.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


10:1    這事以後，主又設立七十個人，差遣他們兩個兩個的，在他前面往自己所要到的各城各地方去。
After these things the LORD appointed other seventy also, and sent them two and two before his face into every city and place, whither he himself would come.

10:2    就對他們說，要收的莊稼多，作工的人少。所以你們當求莊稼的主，打發工人出去收他的莊稼。
Therefore said he unto them, The harvest truly is great, but the labourers are few: pray ye therefore the Lord of the harvest, that he would send forth labourers into his harvest.

10:3    你們去吧。我差你們出去，如同羊羔進入狼群。
Go your ways: behold, I send you forth as lambs among wolves.

10:4    不要帶錢囊，不要帶口袋，不要帶鞋。在路上也不要問人的安。
Carry neither purse, nor scrip, nor shoes: and salute no man by the way.

10:5    無論進那一家，先要說，願這一家平安。
And into whatsoever house ye enter, first say, Peace be to this house.

10:6    那裡若有當得平安的人，當得平安的人原文作平安之子你們所求的平安就必臨到那家，不然，就歸與你們了。
And if the son of peace be there, your peace shall rest upon it: if not, it shall turn to you again.

10:7    你們要住在那家，吃喝他們所供給的。因為工人得工價，是應當的。不要從這家搬到那家。
And in the same house remain, eating and drinking such things as they give: for the labourer is worthy of his hire. Go not from house to house.

10:8    無論進那一城，人若接待你們，給你們擺上什麼，你們就吃什麼。
And into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you, eat such things as are set before you:

10:9    要醫治那城裡的病人，對他們說，神的國臨近你們了。
And heal the sick that are therein, and say unto them, The kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.

10:10    無論進那一城，人若不接待你們，你們就到街上去，
But into whatsoever city ye enter, and they receive you not, go your ways out into the streets of the same, and say,

10:11    說，就是你們城裡的塵土，粘在我們的腳上，我們也當著你們擦去。雖然如此，你們該知道神的國臨近了。
Even the very dust of your city, which cleaveth on us, we do wipe off against you: notwithstanding be ye sure of this, that the kingdom of God is come nigh unto you.

10:12    我告訴你們，當審判的日子，所多瑪所受的，比那城還容易受呢。
But I say unto you, that it shall be more tolerable in that day for Sodom, than for that city.

10:13    哥拉汛哪，你有禍了。伯賽大阿，你有禍了。因為在你們中間所行的異能，若行在推羅西頓，他們早已披麻蒙灰坐在地上悔改了。
Woe unto thee, Chorazin! woe unto thee, Bethsaida! for if the mighty works had been done in Tyre and Sidon, which have been done in you, they had a great while ago repented, sitting in sackcloth and ashes.

10:14    當審判的日子，推羅西頓所受的，比你們還容易受呢。
But it shall be more tolerable for Tyre and Sidon at the judgment, than for you.

10:15    迦百農阿，你已經升到天上。或作你將要升到天上嗎將來必推下陰間。
And thou, Capernaum, which art exalted to heaven, shalt be thrust down to hell.

10:16    又對門徒說，聽從你們的，就是聽從我，棄絕你們的，就是棄絕我，棄絕我的，就是棄絕那差我來的。
He that heareth you heareth me; and he that despiseth you despiseth me; and he that despiseth me despiseth him that sent me.

10:17    那七十個人歡歡喜喜的回來說，主阿，因你的名，就是鬼也服了我們。
And the seventy returned again with joy, saying, Lord, even the devils are subject unto us through thy name.

10:18    耶穌對他們說，我曾看見撒但從天上墜落，像閃電一樣。
And he said unto them, I beheld Satan as lightning fall from heaven.

10:19    我已經給你們權柄，可以踐踏蛇和蠍子，又勝過仇敵一切的能力，斷沒有什麼能害你們。
Behold, I give unto you power to tread on serpents and scorpions, and over all the power of the enemy: and nothing shall by any means hurt you.

10:20    然而不要因鬼服了你們就歡喜，要因你們的名記在天上歡喜。
Notwithstanding in this rejoice not, that the spirits are subject unto you; but rather rejoice, because your names are written in heaven.

10:21    正當那時，耶穌被聖靈感動就歡樂，說，父阿，天地的主，我感謝你，因為你將這些事，向聰明通達人就藏起來，向嬰孩就顯出來。父阿，是的，因為你的美意本是如此。
In that hour Jesus rejoiced in spirit, and said, I thank thee, O Father, Lord of heaven and earth, that thou hast hid these things from the wise and prudent, and hast revealed them unto babes: even so, Father; for so it seemed good in thy sight.

10:22    一切所有的，都是我父交付我的。除了父，沒有人知道子是誰。除了子和子願意指示的，沒有人知道父是誰。
All things are delivered to me of my Father: and no man knoweth who the Son is, but the Father; and who the Father is, but the Son, and he to whom the Son will reveal him.

10:23    耶穌轉身暗暗的對門徒說。看見你們所看見的，那眼睛就有福了。
And he turned him unto his disciples, and said privately, Blessed are the eyes which see the things that ye see:

10:24    我告訴你們，從前有許多先知和君王，要看你們所看的，卻沒有看見。要聽你們所聽的，卻沒有聽見。
For I tell you, that many prophets and kings have desired to see those things which ye see, and have not seen them; and to hear those things which ye hear, and have not heard them.

10:25    有一個律法師，起來試探耶穌說，夫子，我該作什麼才可以承受永生。
And, behold, a certain lawyer stood up, and tempted him, saying, Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?

10:26    耶穌對他說，律法上寫的是什麼。你念的是怎樣呢。
He said unto him, What is written in the law? how readest thou?

10:27    他回答說，你要盡心，儘性，盡力，盡意，愛主你的神。又要愛鄰舍如同自己。
And he answering said, Thou shalt love the Lord thy God with all thy heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy strength, and with all thy mind; and thy neighbour as thyself.

10:28    耶穌說，你回答的是。你這樣行，就必得永生。
And he said unto him, Thou hast answered right: this do, and thou shalt live.

10:29    那人要顯明自己有理，就對耶穌說，誰是我的鄰舍呢。
But he, willing to justify himself, said unto Jesus, And who is my neighbour?

10:30    耶穌回答說，有一個人從耶路撒冷下耶利哥去，落在強盜手中，他們剝去他的衣裳，把他打個半死，就丟下他走了。
And Jesus answering said, A certain man went down from Jerusalem to Jericho, and fell among thieves, which stripped him of his raiment, and wounded him, and departed, leaving him half dead.

10:31    偶然有一個祭司，從這條路下來。看見他就從那邊過去了。
And by chance there came down a certain priest that way: and when he saw him, he passed by on the other side.

10:32    又有一個利末人，來到這地方，看見他，也照樣從那邊過去了。
And likewise a Levite, when he was at the place, came and looked on him, and passed by on the other side.

10:33    惟有一個撒瑪利亞人，行路來到那裡。看見他就動了慈心，
But a certain Samaritan, as he journeyed, came where he was: and when he saw him, he had compassion on him,

10:34    上前用油和酒倒在他的傷處，包裹好了，扶他騎上自己的牲口，帶到店裡去照應他。
And went to him, and bound up his wounds, pouring in oil and wine, and set him on his own beast, and brought him to an inn, and took care of him.

10:35    第二天拿出二錢銀子來，交給店主說，你且照應他。此外所費用的，我回來必還你。
And on the morrow when he departed, he took out two pence, and gave them to the host, and said unto him, Take care of him; and whatsoever thou spendest more, when I come again, I will repay thee.

10:36    你想這三個人，那一個是落在強盜手中的鄰舍呢。
Which now of these three, thinkest thou, was neighbour unto him that fell among the thieves?

10:37    他說，是憐憫他的。耶穌說，你去照樣行吧。
And he said, He that shewed mercy on him. Then said Jesus unto him, Go, and do thou likewise.

10:38    他們走路的時候，耶穌進了一個村莊。有一個女人名叫馬大，接他到自己家裡。
Now it came to pass, as they went, that he entered into a certain village: and a certain woman named Martha received him into her house.

10:39    他有一個妹子名叫馬利亞，在耶穌腳前坐著聽他得道。
And she had a sister called Mary, which also sat at Jesus' feet, and heard his word.

10:40    馬大伺候的事多，心裡忙亂，就進前來說，主阿，我的妹子留下我一個人伺候，你不在意嗎。請吩咐他來幫助我。
But Martha was cumbered about much serving, and came to him, and said, Lord, dost thou not care that my sister hath left me to serve alone? bid her therefore that she help me.

10:41    耶穌回答說，馬大，馬大，你為許多的事，思慮煩擾。
And Jesus answered and said unto her, Martha, Martha, thou art careful and troubled about many things:

10:42    但是不可少的只有一件。馬利亞已經選擇那上好的福分，是不能奪去的。
But one thing is needful: and Mary hath chosen that good part, which shall not be taken away from her.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


11:1    耶穌在一個地方禱告。禱告完了，有個門徒對他說，求主教導我們禱告，像約翰教導他的門徒。
And it came to pass, that, as he was praying in a certain place, when he ceased, one of his disciples said unto him, Lord, teach us to pray, as John also taught his disciples.

11:2    耶穌說，你們禱告的時候，要說，我們在天上的父，有古卷只作父阿願人都尊你的名為聖。願你的國降臨。願你的旨意行在地上，如同行在天上。有古卷無願你的旨意云云
And he said unto them, When ye pray, say, Our Father which art in heaven, Hallowed be thy name. Thy kingdom come. Thy will be done, as in heaven, so in earth.

11:3    我們日用的飲食，天天賜給我們。
Give us day by day our daily bread.

11:4    赦免我們的罪，因為我們也赦免凡虧欠我們的人。不叫我們遇見試探。救我們脫離凶惡。有古卷無末句
And forgive us our sins; for we also forgive every one that is indebted to us. And lead us not into temptation; but deliver us from evil.

11:5    耶穌又說，你們中間誰有一個朋友，半夜到他那裡去說，朋友，請借給我三個餅。
And he said unto them, Which of you shall have a friend, and shall go unto him at midnight, and say unto him, Friend, lend me three loaves;

11:6    因為我有一個朋友行路，來到我這裡，我沒有什麼給他擺上。
For a friend of mine in his journey is come to me, and I have nothing to set before him?

11:7    那人在裡面回答說，不要攪擾我。門已經關閉，孩子們也同我在床上了。我不能起來給你。
And he from within shall answer and say, Trouble me not: the door is now shut, and my children are with me in bed; I cannot rise and give thee.

11:8    我告訴你們，雖不因他是朋友起來給他，但因他情詞迫切的直求，就必起來照他所需用的給他。
I say unto you, Though he will not rise and give him, because he is his friend, yet because of his importunity he will rise and give him as many as he needeth.

11:9    我又告訴你們，你們祈求就給你們。尋梢就尋見。叩門就給你們開門。
And I say unto you, Ask, and it shall be given you; seek, and ye shall find; knock, and it shall be opened unto you.

11:10    因為凡祈求的就得著。尋梢的就尋見。叩門的就給他開門。
For every one that asketh receiveth; and he that seeketh findeth; and to him that knocketh it shall be opened.

11:11    你們中間作父親的，誰有兒子求餅，反給他石頭呢。求魚，反拿蛇當魚給他呢。
If a son shall ask bread of any of you that is a father, will he give him a stone? or if he ask a fish, will he for a fish give him a serpent?

11:12    求雞蛋，反給他蠍子呢。
Or if he shall ask an egg, will he offer him a scorpion?

11:13    你們雖然不好，尚且知道拿好東西給兒女。何況天父，豈不更將聖靈給求他的人嗎。
If ye then, being evil, know how to give good gifts unto your children: how much more shall your heavenly Father give the Holy Spirit to them that ask him?

11:14    耶穌趕出一個叫人啞吧的鬼。鬼出去了，啞吧就說出話來眾人都希奇。
And he was casting out a devil, and it was dumb. And it came to pass, when the devil was gone out, the dumb spake; and the people wondered.

11:15    內中卻有人說，他是靠著鬼王別西卜趕鬼。
But some of them said, He casteth out devils through Beelzebub the chief of the devils.

11:16    又有人試探耶穌，向他求從天上來的神蹟。
And others, tempting him, sought of him a sign from heaven.

11:17    他曉得他們的意念，便對他們說，凡一國自相分爭，就成為荒場。凡一家自相分爭，就必敗落。
But he, knowing their thoughts, said unto them, Every kingdom divided against itself is brought to desolation; and a house divided against a house falleth.

11:18    若撒但自相分爭，他的國怎能站得住呢。因為你們說我是靠著別西卜趕鬼。
If Satan also be divided against himself, how shall his kingdom stand? because ye say that I cast out devils through Beelzebub.

11:19    我若靠著別西卜趕鬼，你們的子弟趕鬼，又靠著誰呢。這樣，他們就要斷定你們的是非。
And if I by Beelzebub cast out devils, by whom do your sons cast them out? therefore shall they be your judges.

11:20    我若靠著神的能力趕鬼，這就是神的國臨到你們了。
But if I with the finger of God cast out devils, no doubt the kingdom of God is come upon you.

11:21    壯士披掛整齊，看守自己的住宅，他所有的都平安無事。
When a strong man armed keepeth his palace, his goods are in peace:

11:22    但有一個比他更壯的來，勝過他，就奪去他所依靠的盔甲兵器，又分了他的贓。
But when a stronger than he shall come upon him, and overcome him, he taketh from him all his armour wherein he trusted, and divideth his spoils.

11:23    不與我相合的，就是敵我的。不同我收聚的，就是分散的。
He that is not with me is against me: and he that gathereth not with me scattereth.

11:24    汙鬼離了人身，就在無水之地，過來過去，尋求安歇之處。既尋不著，便說，我要回到我所出來的屋裡去。
When the unclean spirit is gone out of a man, he walketh through dry places, seeking rest; and finding none, he saith, I will return unto my house whence I came out.

11:25    到了，就看見裡面打掃乾淨，修飾好了。
And when he cometh, he findeth it swept and garnished.

11:26    便去另帶了七個比自己更惡的鬼來，都進去住在那裡。那人末後的景況，比先前更不好了。
Then goeth he, and taketh to him seven other spirits more wicked than himself; and they enter in, and dwell there: and the last state of that man is worse than the first.

11:27    耶穌正說這話的時候，眾人中間，有一個女人大聲說，懷你胎的和乳養你的有福了。
And it came to pass, as he spake these things, a certain woman of the company lifted up her voice, and said unto him, Blessed is the womb that bare thee, and the paps which thou hast sucked.

11:28    耶穌說，是卻還不如聽神之道而遵守的人有福。
But he said, Yea rather, blessed are they that hear the word of God, and keep it.

11:29    當眾人聚集的時後，耶穌開講說，這世代是一個邪惡的世代。他們求看神蹟，除了約拿的神蹟以外，再沒有神蹟給他們看。
And when the people were gathered thick together, he began to say, This is an evil generation: they seek a sign; and there shall no sign be given it, but the sign of Jonas the prophet.

11:30    約拿怎樣為尼尼微人成了神蹟，人子也要照樣為這世代的人成了神蹟。
For as Jonas was a sign unto the Ninevites, so shall also the Son of man be to this generation.

11:31    當審判的時候，南方的女王，要起來定這世代的罪。因為他從地極而來，要聽所羅門的智慧話。看哪，在這裡有一人比所羅門更大。
The queen of the south shall rise up in the judgment with the men of this generation, and condemn them: for she came from the utmost parts of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon; and, behold, a greater than Solomon is here.



11:32    當審判的時候，尼尼微人，要起來定這世代的罪。因為尼尼微人聽了約拿所傳的，就悔改了。看哪，在這裡有一人比約拿更大。
The men of Nineve shall rise up in the judgment with this generation, and shall condemn it: for they repented at the preaching of Jonas; and, behold, a greater than Jonas is here.

11:33    沒有人點燈放在地窨子裡，或是鬥底下，總是放在燈臺上，使進來的人看得見亮光。
No man, when he hath lighted a candle, putteth it in a secret place, neither under a bushel, but on a candlestick, that they which come in may see the light.

11:34    你眼睛就是身上的燈，你的眼睛若了亮，全身就光明。眼睛若昏花，全身就黑暗。
The light of the body is the eye: therefore when thine eye is single, thy whole body also is full of light; but when thine eye is evil, thy body also is full of darkness.

11:35    所以你要省察，恐怕你裡頭的光，或者黑暗了。
Take heed therefore that the light which is in thee be not darkness.

11:36    若是你全身光明，毫無黑暗，就必全然光明，如同燈的明光照亮你。
If thy whole body therefore be full of light, having no part dark, the whole shall be full of light, as when the bright shining of a candle doth give thee light.

11:37    說話的時候，有一個法利賽人請耶穌同他吃飯。耶穌就進去坐席。
And as he spake, a certain Pharisee besought him to dine with him: and he went in, and sat down to meat.

11:38    這法利賽人看見耶穌飯前不洗手，便詫異。
And when the Pharisee saw it, he marvelled that he had not first washed before dinner.

11:39    主對他說，如今你們法利賽人洗淨杯盤的外面。你們裡面卻滿了勒索和邪惡。
And the Lord said unto him, Now do ye Pharisees make clean the outside of the cup and the platter; but your inward part is full of ravening and wickedness.

11:40    無知的人哪，造外面的，不也造裡面嗎。
Ye fools, did not he that made that which is without make that which is within also?

11:41    只要把裡面的施捨給人，凡物於你們就都潔淨了。
But rather give alms of such things as ye have; and, behold, all things are clean unto you.

11:42    你們法利賽人有禍了。因為你們將薄荷芸香，並各樣菜蔬，獻上十分之一，那公義和愛神的事，反倒不行了。這原是你們當行的，那也是不可不行的。
But woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye tithe mint and rue and all manner of herbs, and pass over judgment and the love of God: these ought ye to have done, and not to leave the other undone.

11:43    你們法利賽人有禍了。因為你們喜愛會堂裡的首位，又喜愛人在街市上問你們的安。
Woe unto you, Pharisees! for ye love the uppermost seats in the synagogues, and greetings in the markets.

11:44    你們有禍了。因為你們如同不顯露的墳墓，走在上面的人並不知道。
Woe unto you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites! for ye are as graves which appear not, and the men that walk over them are not aware of them.

11:45    律法師中有一個回答耶穌說，夫子，你這樣說，也把我們糟塌了。
Then answered one of the lawyers, and said unto him, Master, thus saying thou reproachest us also.

11:46    耶穌說，你們律法師也有禍了。因為你們把難擔的擔子，放在人身上，自己一個指頭卻不肯動。
And he said, Woe unto you also, ye lawyers! for ye lade men with burdens grievous to be borne, and ye yourselves touch not the burdens with one of your fingers.

11:47    你們有禍了。因為你們修造先知的墳墓，那先知正是你們的祖宗所殺的。
Woe unto you! for ye build the sepulchres of the prophets, and your fathers killed them.

11:48    可見你們的祖宗所作的事，你們又證明又喜歡。因為他們殺了先知，你們修造先知的墳墓。
Truly ye bear witness that ye allow the deeds of your fathers: for they indeed killed them, and ye build their sepulchres.

11:49    所以神用智慧曾說，用智慧或作的智者我要差遣先知和使徒，到他們那裡去。有的他們要殺害，有的他們要逼迫。
Therefore also said the wisdom of God, I will send them prophets and apostles, and some of them they shall slay and persecute:

11:50    使創世以來，所流眾先知血的罪，都要問在這世代的人身上。
That the blood of all the prophets, which was shed from the foundation of the world, may be required of this generation;

11:51    就是從亞伯的血起，直到被殺在壇和殿中間撒迦利亞的血為止。我實在告訴你們，這都要問在這世代的人身上。
From the blood of Abel unto the blood of Zacharias, which perished between the altar and the temple: verily I say unto you, It shall be required of this generation.

11:52    你們律法師有禍了。因為你們把知識的鑰匙奪了去。自己不進去，正要進去的人，你們也阻擋他們。
Woe unto you, lawyers! for ye have taken away the key of knowledge: ye entered not in yourselves, and them that were entering in ye hindered.

11:53    耶穌從那裡出來，文士和法利賽人，就極力的催逼他，引動他多說話。
And as he said these things unto them, the scribes and the Pharisees began to urge him vehemently, and to provoke him to speak of many things:

11:54    私下窺聽，要拿他的話柄。
Laying wait for him, and seeking to catch something out of his mouth, that they might accuse him.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


12:1    這時，有幾萬人聚集，甚至彼此踐踏，耶穌開講，先對門徒說，你們要防備法利賽人的酵，就是假冒為善。
In the mean time, when there were gathered together an innumerable multitude of people, insomuch that they trode one upon another, he began to say unto his disciples first of all, Beware ye of the leaven of the Pharisees, which is hypocrisy.

12:2    掩蓋的事，沒有不露出來的。隱藏的事，沒有不被人知道的。
For there is nothing covered, that shall not be revealed; neither hid, that shall not be known.

12:3    因此你們在暗中所說的，將要在明處被人聽見。在室內附耳所說的，將要在房上被人宣揚。
Therefore whatsoever ye have spoken in darkness shall be heard in the light; and that which ye have spoken in the ear in closets shall be proclaimed upon the housetops.

12:4    我的朋友，我對你們說，那殺身體以後，不能再作什麼的，不要怕他們。
And I say unto you my friends, Be not afraid of them that kill the body, and after that have no more that they can do.

12:5    我要指示你們當怕的是誰。當怕那殺了以後，又有權柄丟在地獄裡的。我實在告訴你們，正要怕他。
But I will forewarn you whom ye shall fear: Fear him, which after he hath killed hath power to cast into hell; yea, I say unto you, Fear him.

12:6    五個麻雀，不是賣二分銀子嗎。但在神面前，一個也不忘記。
Are not five sparrows sold for two farthings, and not one of them is forgotten before God?

12:7    就是你們的頭髮也都被數過了。不要懼怕，你們比許多麻雀還貴重。
But even the very hairs of your head are all numbered. Fear not therefore: ye are of more value than many sparrows.

12:8    我又告訴你們，凡在人面前認我的，人子在神的使者面前也必認他。
Also I say unto you, Whosoever shall confess me before men, him shall the Son of man also confess before the angels of God:

12:9    在人面前不認我的，人子在神的使者面前也必不認他。
But he that denieth me before men shall be denied before the angels of God.

12:10    凡說話干犯人子的，還可得赦免，惟獨褻瀆聖靈的，總不得赦免。
And whosoever shall speak a word against the Son of man, it shall be forgiven him: but unto him that blasphemeth against the Holy Ghost it shall not be forgiven.

12:11    人帶你們到會堂，並官府，和有權柄的人面前，不要思慮怎嗎分訴，說什麼話。
And when they bring you unto the synagogues, and unto magistrates, and powers, take ye no thought how or what thing ye shall answer, or what ye shall say:

12:12    因為正在那時候，聖靈要指教你們當說的話。
For the Holy Ghost shall teach you in the same hour what ye ought to say.

12:13    眾人中有一個人對耶穌說，夫子，請你吩咐我的兄長和我分開家業。
And one of the company said unto him, Master, speak to my brother, that he divide the inheritance with me.

12:14    耶穌說，你這個人，誰立我作你們斷事的官，給你們分家業呢。
And he said unto him, Man, who made me a judge or a divider over you?

12:15    於是對眾人說，你們要謹慎自守，免去一切的貪心。因為人的生命，不在乎家道豐富。
And he said unto them, Take heed, and beware of covetousness: for a man's life consisteth not in the abundance of the things which he possesseth.

12:16    就用比喻對他們說，有一個財主，田產豐盛。
And he spake a parable unto them, saying, The ground of a certain rich man brought forth plentifully:

12:17    自己心裡思想說，我的出產沒有地方收藏，怎嗎辦呢。
And he thought within himself, saying, What shall I do, because I have no room where to bestow my fruits?

12:18    又說，我要這嗎辦。要把我的倉房拆了，另蓋更大的。在那裡好收藏我一切的糧食和財物。
And he said, This will I do: I will pull down my barns, and build greater; and there will I bestow all my fruits and my goods.

12:19    然後要對我的靈魂說，靈魂哪，你有許多財物積存，可作多年的費用。只管安安逸逸的吃喝快樂吧。
And I will say to my soul, Soul, thou hast much goods laid up for many years; take thine ease, eat, drink, and be merry.

12:20    神卻對他說，無知的人哪，今夜必要你的靈魂。你所豫備的，要歸誰呢。
But God said unto him, Thou fool, this night thy soul shall be required of thee: then whose shall those things be, which thou hast provided?

12:21    凡為自己積財，在神面前卻不富足的，也是這樣。
So is he that layeth up treasure for himself, and is not rich toward God.

12:22    耶穌又對門徒說，所以我告訴你們，不要為生命憂慮吃什麼。為身體憂慮穿什麼。
And he said unto his disciples, Therefore I say unto you, Take no thought for your life, what ye shall eat; neither for the body, what ye shall put on.

12:23    因為生命勝於飲食，身體勝於衣裳。
The life is more than meat, and the body is more than raiment.

12:24    你想烏鴉，也不種，也不收。又沒有倉，又沒有庫，神尚且養活他。你們比飛鳥是何等的貴重呢。
Consider the ravens: for they neither sow nor reap; which neither have storehouse nor barn; and God feedeth them: how much more are ye better than the fowls?

12:25    你們那一個能用思慮，使壽數多加一刻呢。或作使身量多加一肘呢
And which of you with taking thought can add to his stature one cubit?

12:26    這最小的事，你們尚且不能作，為什麼還憂慮其餘的事呢。
If ye then be not able to do that thing which is least, why take ye thought for the rest?

12:27    你想百合花，怎嗎長起來。他也不勞苦，也不紡線。然而我告訴你們，就是所羅門極榮華的時候，他所穿戴的，還不如這花一朵呢。
Consider the lilies how they grow: they toil not, they spin not; and yet I say unto you, that Solomon in all his glory was not arrayed like one of these.

12:28    你們這小信的人哪，野地裡的草，今天還在，明天就丟在爐裡，神還給他這樣的妝飾，何況你們呢。
If then God so clothe the grass, which is to day in the field, and to morrow is cast into the oven; how much more will he clothe you, O ye of little faith?

12:29    你們不要求吃什麼，喝什麼，也不要掛心。
And seek not ye what ye shall eat, or what ye shall drink, neither be ye of doubtful mind.

12:30    這都是外邦人所求的，你們必須用這些東西，你們的父是知道的。
For all these things do the nations of the world seek after: and your Father knoweth that ye have need of these things.

12:31    你們只要求他的國，這些東西就必加給你們了。
But rather seek ye the kingdom of God; and all these things shall be added unto you.

12:32    你們這小群，不要懼怕，因為你們的父，樂意把國賜給你們。
Fear not, little flock; for it is your Father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom.

12:33    你們要變賣所有的，賙濟人。為自己豫備永不壞的錢囊，用不盡的財寶在天上，就是賊不能近，蟲不能蛀的地方。
Sell that ye have, and give alms; provide yourselves bags which wax not old, a treasure in the heavens that faileth not, where no thief approacheth, neither moth corrupteth.

12:34    因為你們的財寶在那裡，你們的心也在那裡。
For where your treasure is, there will your heart be also.

12:35    你們腰裡要束上帶，燈也要點著。
Let your loins be girded about, and your lights burning;

12:36    自己好像僕人等候主人，從婚姻的筵席上回來。他來到叩門，就立刻給他開門。
And ye yourselves like unto men that wait for their lord, when he will return from the wedding; that when he cometh and knocketh, they may open unto him immediately.

12:37    主人來了，看見僕人儆醒，那僕人就有福了。我實在告訴你們，主人必叫他們坐席，自己束上帶，進前伺候他們。
Blessed are those servants, whom the lord when he cometh shall find watching: verily I say unto you, that he shall gird himself, and make them to sit down to meat, and will come forth and serve them.

12:38    或是二更天來，或是三更天來，看見僕人這樣，那僕人就有福了。
And if he shall come in the second watch, or come in the third watch, and find them so, blessed are those servants.

12:39    家主若知道賊什麼時候來，就必儆醒，不容賊挖透房屋，這是你們所知道的。
And this know, that if the goodman of the house had known what hour the thief would come, he would have watched, and not have suffered his house to be broken through.

12:40    你們也要豫備。因為你們想不到的時候，人子就來了。
Be ye therefore ready also: for the Son of man cometh at an hour when ye think not.

12:41    彼得說，主阿，這比喻是為我們說的呢，還是為眾人呢。
Then Peter said unto him, Lord, speakest thou this parable unto us, or even to all?

12:42    主說，誰是那忠心有見識的管家，主人派他管理家裡的人，按時分糧給他們呢。
And the Lord said, Who then is that faithful and wise steward, whom his lord shall make ruler over his household, to give them their portion of meat in due season?

12:43    主人來到，看見僕人這樣行，那僕人就有福了。
Blessed is that servant, whom his lord when he cometh shall find so doing.

12:44    我實在告訴你們，主人要派他管理一切所有的。
Of a truth I say unto you, that he will make him ruler over all that he hath.

12:45    那僕人若心裡說，我的主人必來得遲。就動手打僕人和使女，並且吃喝醉酒。
But and if that servant say in his heart, My lord delayeth his coming; and shall begin to beat the menservants and maidens, and to eat and drink, and to be drunken;

12:46    在他想不到的日子，不知道的時辰，那僕人的主人要來，重重的處治他，或作把他腰斬了定他和不忠心的人同罪。
The lord of that servant will come in a day when he looketh not for him, and at an hour when he is not aware, and will cut him in sunder, and will appoint him his portion with the unbelievers.

12:47    僕人知道主人的意思，卻不豫備，又不順他的意思行，那僕人必多受責打。
And that servant, which knew his lord's will, and prepared not himself, neither did according to his will, shall be beaten with many stripes.

12:48    惟有那不知道的，作了當受責打的事，必少受責打因為多給誰，就向誰多取。多託誰，就向誰多要。
But he that knew not, and did commit things worthy of stripes, shall be beaten with few stripes. For unto whomsoever much is given, of him shall be much required: and to whom men have committed much, of him they will ask the more.

12:49    我來要把火丟在地上。倘若已經著起來，不也是我所願意的嗎。
I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be already kindled?

12:50    我有當受的洗。還沒有成就，我是何等的迫切呢。
But I have a baptism to be baptized with; and how am I straitened till it be accomplished!

12:51    你們以為我來，是叫地上太平嗎。我告訴你們，不是，乃是叫人分爭。
Suppose ye that I am come to give peace on earth? I tell you, Nay; but rather division:

12:52    從今以後，一家五個人將要分爭，三個人和兩個人相爭，兩個人和三個人相爭。
For from henceforth there shall be five in one house divided, three against two, and two against three.

12:53    父親和兒子相爭，兒子和父親相爭。母親和女兒相爭，女兒和母親相爭。婆婆和媳婦相爭，媳婦和婆婆相爭。
The father shall be divided against the son, and the son against the father; the mother against the daughter, and the daughter against the mother; the mother in law against her daughter in law, and the daughter in law against her mother in law.

12:54    耶穌又對眾人說，你們看見西邊起了雲彩，就說，要下一陣雨。果然就有。
And he said also to the people, When ye see a cloud rise out of the west, straightway ye say, There cometh a shower; and so it is.

12:55    起了南風，就說，將要燥熱。也就有了。
And when ye see the south wind blow, ye say, There will be heat; and it cometh to pass.

12:56    假冒為善的人哪，你們知道分辨天地的氣色。怎嗎不知道分辨這時候呢。
Ye hypocrites, ye can discern the face of the sky and of the earth; but how is it that ye do not discern this time?

12:57    你們又為何不自己審量，什麼是合理的呢。
Yea, and why even of yourselves judge ye not what is right?

12:58    你同告你的對頭去見官，還在路上，務要盡力的和他了結。恐怕他拉你到官面前，官交付差役，差役把你下在監裡
When thou goest with thine adversary to the magistrate, as thou art in the way, give diligence that thou mayest be delivered from him; lest he hale thee to the judge, and the judge deliver thee to the officer, and the officer cast thee into prison.

12:59    我告訴你，若有半文錢沒有還清，你斷不能從那裡出來。
I tell thee, thou shalt not depart thence, till thou hast paid the very last mite.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


13:1    正當那時，有人將彼拉多使加利利人的血攙雜在他們祭物中的事，告訴耶穌。
There were present at that season some that told him of the Galilaeans, whose blood Pilate had mingled with their sacrifices.

13:2    耶穌說，你們以為這些加利利人比眾加利利人更有罪，所以受這害嗎。
And Jesus answering said unto them, Suppose ye that these Galilaeans were sinners above all the Galilaeans, because they suffered such things?

13:3    我告訴你們，不是的。你們若不悔改，都要如此滅亡。
I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.

13:4    從前西羅亞樓倒塌了，壓死十八個人，你們以為那些人比一切住在耶路撒冷的人更有罪嗎。
Or those eighteen, upon whom the tower in Siloam fell, and slew them, think ye that they were sinners above all men that dwelt in Jerusalem?

13:5    我告訴你們，不是的。你們若不悔改，都要如此滅亡。
I tell you, Nay: but, except ye repent, ye shall all likewise perish.

13:6    於是用比喻說，一個人有一棵無花果樹，栽在葡萄園裡。他來到樹前梢果子，卻找不著。
He spake also this parable; A certain man had a fig tree planted in his vineyard; and he came and sought fruit thereon, and found none.

13:7    就對管園的說，看哪，我這三年，來到這無花果樹前梢果子，竟找不著，把他砍了吧。何必白佔地土呢。
Then said he unto the dresser of his vineyard, Behold, these three years I come seeking fruit on this fig tree, and find none: cut it down; why cumbereth it the ground?

13:8    管園的說，主阿，今年且留著，等我周圍掘開土，加上糞。
And he answering said unto him, Lord, let it alone this year also, till I shall dig about it, and dung it:

13:9    以後若結果子便吧。不然再把他砍了。
And if it bear fruit, well: and if not, then after that thou shalt cut it down.

13:10    安息日，耶穌在會堂裡教訓人。
And he was teaching in one of the synagogues on the sabbath.

13:11    有一個女人，被鬼附著病了十八年。腰彎得一點直不起來。
And, behold, there was a woman which had a spirit of infirmity eighteen years, and was bowed together, and could in no wise lift up herself.

13:12    耶穌看見，便叫過他來，對他說，女人，你脫離這病了。
And when Jesus saw her, he called her to him, and said unto her, Woman, thou art loosed from thine infirmity.

13:13    於是用兩雙手按著他。他立刻直起腰來，就歸榮耀與神。
And he laid his hands on her: and immediately she was made straight, and glorified God.

13:14    管會堂的，因為耶穌在安息日治病，就氣忿忿的對眾人說，有六日應當作工。那六日之內，可以來求醫，在安息日卻不可。
And the ruler of the synagogue answered with indignation, because that Jesus had healed on the sabbath day, and said unto the people, There are six days in which men ought to work: in them therefore come and be healed, and not on the sabbath day.

13:15    主說，假冒為善的人哪，難道你們各人在安息日不解開槽上的牛驢，牽去飲嗎。
The Lord then answered him, and said, Thou hypocrite, doth not each one of you on the sabbath loose his ox or his ass from the stall, and lead him away to watering?

13:16    況且這女人本是亞伯拉罕的後裔，被撒但捆綁了這十八年，不當在安息日解開他的綁嗎。
And ought not this woman, being a daughter of Abraham, whom Satan hath bound, lo, these eighteen years, be loosed from this bond on the sabbath day?

13:17    耶穌說這話，他的敵人都慚愧了。眾人因他所行一切榮耀的事，就都歡喜了。
And when he had said these things, all his adversaries were ashamed: and all the people rejoiced for all the glorious things that were done by him.

13:18    耶穌說，神的國，好像什麼。我拿什麼來比較呢。
Then said he, Unto what is the kingdom of God like? and whereunto shall I resemble it?

13:19    好像一粒芥菜種，有人拿去種在園子裡。長大成樹，天上的飛鳥，宿在他的枝上。
It is like a grain of mustard seed, which a man took, and cast into his garden; and it grew, and waxed a great tree; and the fowls of the air lodged in the branches of it.

13:20    又說，我拿什麼來比神的國呢。
And again he said, Whereunto shall I liken the kingdom of God?

13:21    好比面酵，有婦人拿來藏在三鬥面裡，直等全團都發起來。
It is like leaven, which a woman took and hid in three measures of meal, till the whole was leavened.

13:22    耶穌往耶路撒冷去，在所經過的各城各鄉教訓人。
And he went through the cities and villages, teaching, and journeying toward Jerusalem.

13:23    有一個人問他說，主阿，得救的人少嗎。
Then said one unto him, Lord, are there few that be saved? And he said unto them,

13:24    耶穌對眾人說，你們要努力進窄門。我告訴你們，將來有許多人想要進去，卻是不能。
Strive to enter in at the strait gate: for many, I say unto you, will seek to enter in, and shall not be able.

13:25    及至家主起來關了門，你們站在外面叩門，說，主阿，給我們開門，他就回答說，我不認識你們，不曉得你們是那裡來的。
When once the master of the house is risen up, and hath shut to the door, and ye begin to stand without, and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, Lord, open unto us; and he shall answer and say unto you, I know you not whence ye are:

13:26    那時，你們要說，我們在你面前吃過喝過，你也在我們街上教訓過人。
Then shall ye begin to say, We have eaten and drunk in thy presence, and thou hast taught in our streets.

13:27    他要說，我告訴你們，我不曉得你們是那裡來的。你們這切作惡的人，離開我去吧。
But he shall say, I tell you, I know you not whence ye are; depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity.

13:28    你們要看見亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各，和眾先知，都在神的國裡，你們卻被趕到外面。在那裡必要哀哭切齒了。
There shall be weeping and gnashing of teeth, when ye shall see Abraham, and Isaac, and Jacob, and all the prophets, in the kingdom of God, and you yourselves thrust out.

13:29    從東，從西，從南，從北，將有人來，在神的國裡坐席。
And they shall come from the east, and from the west, and from the north, and from the south, and shall sit down in the kingdom of God.

13:30    只是有在後的將要在前，有在前的將要在後。
And, behold, there are last which shall be first, and there are first which shall be last.

13:31    正當那時，有幾個法利賽人來對耶穌說，離開這裡去吧。因為希律想要殺你。
The same day there came certain of the Pharisees, saying unto him, Get thee out, and depart hence: for Herod will kill thee.

13:32    耶穌說，你們去告訴那個狐狸說，今天明天我趕鬼治病，第三天我的事就成全了。
And he said unto them, Go ye, and tell that fox, Behold, I cast out devils, and I do cures to day and to morrow, and the third day I shall be perfected.

13:33    雖然這樣，今天明天后天我必須前行。因為先知在耶路撒冷之外喪命是不能的。
Nevertheless I must walk to day, and to morrow, and the day following: for it cannot be that a prophet perish out of Jerusalem.

13:34    耶路撒冷阿，耶路撒冷阿，你常殺害先知，又用石頭打死那奉差遣到你這裡來的人。我多次願意聚集你的兒女，好像母雞把小雞聚集在翅膀底下，只是你們不願意。
O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, which killest the prophets, and stonest them that are sent unto thee; how often would I have gathered thy children together, as a hen doth gather her brood under her wings, and ye would not!

13:35    看哪，你們的家成為荒場留給你們。我告訴你們，從今以後你們不得再見我，直等到你們說，奉主名來的是應當稱頌的。
Behold, your house is left unto you desolate: and verily I say unto you, Ye shall not see me, until the time come when ye shall say, Blessed is he that cometh in the name of the Lord.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　




14:1    安息日，耶穌到一個法利賽人的首領家裡去吃飯，他們就窺探他。
And it came to pass, as he went into the house of one of the chief Pharisees to eat bread on the sabbath day, that they watched him.

14:2    在他面前有一個患水臌的人。
And, behold, there was a certain man before him which had the dropsy.

14:3    耶穌對律法師和法利賽人說，安息日治病，可以不可以。
And Jesus answering spake unto the lawyers and Pharisees, saying, Is it lawful to heal on the sabbath day?

14:4    他們卻不言語。耶穌就治好那人，叫他走了。
And they held their peace. And he took him, and healed him, and let him go;

14:5    便對他們說，你們中間誰有驢或有牛，在安息日掉在井裡，不立時拉他上來呢。
And answered them, saying, Which of you shall have an ass or an ox fallen into a pit, and will not straightway pull him out on the sabbath day?

14:6    他們不能對答這話。
And they could not answer him again to these things.

14:7    耶穌見所請的客揀擇首位，就用比喻對他們說，
And he put forth a parable to those which were bidden, when he marked how they chose out the chief rooms; saying unto them,

14:8    你被人請去赴婚姻的筵席，不要坐在首位上。恐怕有比你尊貴的客，被他請來。
When thou art bidden of any man to a wedding, sit not down in the highest room; lest a more honourable man than thou be bidden of him;

14:9    那請你們的人前來對你說，讓座寄這一位吧。你就羞羞慚慚的退到末位上去了。
And he that bade thee and him come and say to thee, Give this man place; and thou begin with shame to take the lowest room.

14:10    你被請的時候，就去坐在末位上，好叫那請你的人來，對你說，朋友，請上坐，那時你在同席的人面前，就有了光彩了。
But when thou art bidden, go and sit down in the lowest room; that when he that bade thee cometh, he may say unto thee, Friend, go up higher: then shalt thou have worship in the presence of them that sit at meat with thee.

14:11    因為凡自高的必降為卑。自卑的必升為高。
For whosoever exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

14:12    耶穌又對請他的人說，你擺設午飯，或晚飯，不要請你的朋友，弟兄，親屬，和富足的鄰舍。恐怕他們也請你，你就得了報答。
Then said he also to him that bade him, When thou makest a dinner or a supper, call not thy friends, nor thy brethren, neither thy kinsmen, nor thy rich neighbours; lest they also bid thee again, and a recompence be made thee.

14:13    你擺設筵席，倒要請那貧窮的，殘廢的，瘸腿的，瞎眼的，你就有福了。
But when thou makest a feast, call the poor, the maimed, the lame, the blind:

14:14    因為他們沒有什麼可報答你。到義人復活的時候，你要得著報答。
And thou shalt be blessed; for they cannot recompense thee: for thou shalt be recompensed at the resurrection of the just.

14:15    同席的友一人聽見這話，就對耶穌說，在神國裡吃飯的有福了。
And when one of them that sat at meat with him heard these things, he said unto him, Blessed is he that shall eat bread in the kingdom of God.

14:16    耶穌對他說，有一人擺設大筵席，請了許多客。
Then said he unto him, A certain man made a great supper, and bade many:

14:17    到了坐席的時後，打發僕人去對所請的人說，請來吧。樣樣都齊備了。
And sent his servant at supper time to say to them that were bidden, Come; for all things are now ready.

14:18    眾人一口同音的推辭。頭一個說，我買了一塊地，必須去看看。請你準我辭了。
And they all with one consent began to make excuse. The first said unto him, I have bought a piece of ground, and I must needs go and see it: I pray thee have me excused.

14:19    又有一個說，我買了五對牛，要去試一試。請你準我辭了。
And another said, I have bought five yoke of oxen, and I go to prove them: I pray thee have me excused.

14:20    又有一個說，我才娶了妻，所以不能去。
And another said, I have married a wife, and therefore I cannot come.

14:21    那僕人回來，把這事都告訴了主人。家主就動怒，對僕人說，快出去到城裡大街小巷，領那貧窮的，殘廢的，瞎眼的，瘸腿的來。
So that servant came, and shewed his lord these things. Then the master of the house being angry said to his servant, Go out quickly into the streets and lanes of the city, and bring in hither the poor, and the maimed, and the halt, and the blind.

14:22    僕人說，主阿，你所吩咐的已經辦了，還有空座。
And the servant said, Lord, it is done as thou hast commanded, and yet there is room.

14:23    主人對僕人說，你出去到路上和籬笆那裡，勉強人進來，坐滿我的屋子。
And the lord said unto the servant, Go out into the highways and hedges, and compel them to come in, that my house may be filled.

14:24    我告訴你們，先前所請的人，沒有一個人得嘗我的筵席。
For I say unto you, That none of those men which were bidden shall taste of my supper.

14:25    有極多的人和耶穌同行。他轉過來對他們說，
And there went great multitudes with him: and he turned, and said unto them,



14:26    人到我這裡來，若不愛我勝過愛自己的父母，妻子，兒女，弟兄，姐妹，和自己的性命，就不能作我的門徒。愛我勝過愛原文作恨
If any man come to me, and hate not his father, and mother, and wife, and children, and brethren, and sisters, yea, and his own life also, he cannot be my disciple.

14:27    凡不揹著自己十字架跟從我的，也不能作我的門徒。
And whosoever doth not bear his cross, and come after me, cannot be my disciple.

14:28    你們那一個要蓋一座樓，不先坐下算計花費，能蓋成不能呢。
For which of you, intending to build a tower, sitteth not down first, and counteth the cost, whether he have sufficient to finish it?

14:29    恐怕安了地基，不能成功，看見的人都笑話他，
Lest haply, after he hath laid the foundation, and is not able to finish it, all that behold it begin to mock him,

14:30    說，這個人開了工，卻不能完工。
Saying, This man began to build, and was not able to finish.

14:31    或是一個王，出去和別的王打仗，豈不先坐下酌量，能用一萬兵，去敵那領二萬兵來攻打他的嗎。
Or what king, going to make war against another king, sitteth not down first, and consulteth whether he be able with ten thousand to meet him that cometh against him with twenty thousand?



14:32    若是不能，就趁敵人還遠的時候，派使者去求和息的條款。
Or else, while the other is yet a great way off, he sendeth an ambassage, and desireth conditions of peace.

14:33    這樣，你們無論什麼人，若不撇下一切所有的，就不能作我的門徒。
So likewise, whosoever he be of you that forsaketh not all that he hath, he cannot be my disciple.

14:34    鹽本是好的，鹽若失了味，可用什麼叫他再鹹呢。
Salt is good: but if the salt have lost his savour, wherewith shall it be seasoned?

14:35    或用在田裡，或堆在糞裡，都不合式。只好丟在外面。有耳可聽的，就應當聽。
It is neither fit for the land, nor yet for the dunghill; but men cast it out. He that hath ears to hear, let him hear.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


15:1    眾稅吏和罪人，都挨近耶穌要聽他講道。
Then drew near unto him all the publicans and sinners for to hear him.

15:2    法利賽人和文士，私下議論說，這個人接待罪人，又同他們吃飯。
And the Pharisees and scribes murmured, saying, This man receiveth sinners, and eateth with them.

15:3    耶穌就用比喻，說，
And he spake this parable unto them, saying,

15:4    你們中間誰有一百隻羊，失去一隻，不把這九十九隻撇在曠野，去找那失去的羊直到找著呢。
What man of you, having an hundred sheep, if he lose one of them, doth not leave the ninety and nine in the wilderness, and go after that which is lost, until he find it?

15:5    找著了，就歡歡喜喜的扛在肩上，回到家裡。
And when he hath found it, he layeth it on his shoulders, rejoicing.



15:6    就請朋友鄰舍來，對他們說，我失去的羊已經找著了，你們和我一起歡喜吧。
And when he cometh home, he calleth together his friends and neighbours, saying unto them, Rejoice with me; for I have found my sheep which was lost.

15:7    我告訴你們，一個罪人悔改，在天上也要這樣為他歡喜，較比為九十九個不用悔改的義人，歡喜更大。
I say unto you, that likewise joy shall be in heaven over one sinner that repenteth, more than over ninety and nine just persons, which need no repentance.

15:8    或是一個婦人，有十塊錢，若失落一塊，豈不點上燈，打掃屋子，細細的找，直到找著嗎。
Either what woman having ten pieces of silver, if she lose one piece, doth not light a candle, and sweep the house, and seek diligently till she find it?

15:9    找著了，就請朋友鄰舍來，對他們說，我失落的那塊錢已經找著了，你們和我一同歡喜吧。
And when she hath found it, she calleth her friends and her neighbours together, saying, Rejoice with me; for I have found the piece which I had lost.

15:10    我告訴你們，一個罪人悔改，在神的使者面前，也是這樣為他歡喜。
Likewise, I say unto you, there is joy in the presence of the angels of God over one sinner that repenteth.

15:11    耶穌又說，一個人有兩個兒子。
And he said, A certain man had two sons:

15:12    小兒子對父親說，父親，請你把我應得的家業分給我。他父親就把產業分給他們。
And the younger of them said to his father, Father, give me the portion of goods that falleth to me. And he divided unto them his living.

15:13    過了不多幾日，小兒子就把他一切所有的，都收拾起來，往遠方去了。在那裡任意放蕩，浪費貲財。
And not many days after the younger son gathered all together, and took his journey into a far country, and there wasted his substance with riotous living.

15:14    既耗盡了一切所有的，又遇著那地方大遭饑荒，就窮苦起來。
And when he had spent all, there arose a mighty famine in that land; and he began to be in want.

15:15    於是去投靠那地方的一個人，那人打發他到田裡去放豬。
And he went and joined himself to a citizen of that country; and he sent him into his fields to feed swine.

15:16    他恨不得拿豬所吃的豆莢充飢。也沒有人給他。
And he would fain have filled his belly with the husks that the swine did eat: and no man gave unto him.

15:17    他醒悟過來，就說，我父親有多少的僱工，口糧有餘，我倒在這裡餓死嗎。
And when he came to himself, he said, How many hired servants of my father's have bread enough and to spare, and I perish with hunger!

15:18    我要起來，到我父親那裡去，向他說，父親，我得罪了天，又得罪了你。
I will arise and go to my father, and will say unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and before thee,

15:19    從今以後，我不配稱為你的兒子，把我當作一個僱工吧。
And am no more worthy to be called thy son: make me as one of thy hired servants.

15:20    於是起來往他父親那裡去。相離還遠，他父親看見，就動了慈心，跑去抱著他的頸項，連連輿他親嘴。
And he arose, and came to his father. But when he was yet a great way off, his father saw him, and had compassion, and ran, and fell on his neck, and kissed him.

15:21    兒子說，父親，我得罪了天，又得罪了你，從今以後，我不配稱為你的兒子。
And the son said unto him, Father, I have sinned against heaven, and in thy sight, and am no more worthy to be called thy son.

15:22    父親卻吩咐僕人說，把那上好的袍子快拿出來給他穿。把戒指戴在他指頭上。把鞋穿在他腳上。
But the father said to his servants, Bring forth the best robe, and put it on him; and put a ring on his hand, and shoes on his feet:

15:23    把那肥牛犢牽來宰了，我們可以吃喝快樂。
And bring hither the fatted calf, and kill it; and let us eat, and be merry:

15:24    因為我這個兒子，是死而復活，失而又得的。他們就快樂起來。
For this my son was dead, and is alive again; he was lost, and is found. And they began to be merry.

15:25    那時，大兒子正在田裡。他回來離家不遠，聽見作樂跳舞的聲音。
Now his elder son was in the field: and as he came and drew nigh to the house, he heard musick and dancing.

15:26    便叫過一個僕人來，問是什麼事。
And he called one of the servants, and asked what these things meant.

15:27    僕人說，你兄弟來了。你父親，因為得他無災無病的回來，把牛犢宰了。
And he said unto him, Thy brother is come; and thy father hath killed the fatted calf, because he hath received him safe and sound.

15:28    大兒子卻生氣，不肯進去。他父親就出來勸他。
And he was angry, and would not go in: therefore came his father out, and intreated him.

15:29    他對父親說，我服事你這多年，從來沒有違背過你的命。你並沒有給我一隻山羊羔，叫我和朋友，一同快樂。
And he answering said to his father, Lo, these many years do I serve thee, neither transgressed I at any time thy commandment: and yet thou never gavest me a kid, that I might make merry with my friends:

15:30    但你這個兒子，和娼妓吞盡了你的產業，他一來了，你倒為他宰了肥牛犢。
But as soon as this thy son was come, which hath devoured thy living with harlots, thou hast killed for him the fatted calf.

15:31    父親對他說，兒阿，你常和我同在，我一切所有的，都是你的。
And he said unto him, Son, thou art ever with me, and all that I have is thine.

15:32    只是你這個兄弟是死而復活，失而又得的，所以我們理當歡喜快樂。
It was meet that we should make merry, and be glad: for this thy brother was dead, and is alive again; and was lost, and is found.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


16:1    耶穌又對門徒說，有一個財主的管家。別人向他主人告他浪費主人的財物。
And he said also unto his disciples, There was a certain rich man, which had a steward; and the same was accused unto him that he had wasted his goods.

16:2    主人叫他來，對他說，我聽見你這事怎嗎樣呢。把你所經管的交待明白。因你不能再作我的管家。
And he called him, and said unto him, How is it that I hear this of thee? give an account of thy stewardship; for thou mayest be no longer steward.

16:3    那管家心裡說，主人辭我，不用我再作管家，我將來作什麼。鋤地呢，無力。討飯呢，怕羞。
Then the steward said within himself, What shall I do? for my lord taketh away from me the stewardship: I cannot dig; to beg I am ashamed.

16:4    我知道怎嗎行，好叫人在我不作管家之後，接我到他們家裡去。
I am resolved what to do, that, when I am put out of the stewardship, they may receive me into their houses.

16:5    於是把欠主人債的，一個一個的叫了來，問頭一個說，你欠我主人多少。
So he called every one of his lord's debtors unto him, and said unto the first, How much owest thou unto my lord?

16:6    他說，一百簍油。每簍約五十斤管家說，拿你的賬快坐下寫五十。
And he said, An hundred measures of oil. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and sit down quickly, and write fifty.

16:7    又問一個說，你欠多少。他說，一百石麥子。管家說，拿你的賬寫八十。
Then said he to another, And how much owest thou? And he said, An hundred measures of wheat. And he said unto him, Take thy bill, and write fourscore.

16:8    主人就誇獎這不義的管家作事聰明。因為今世之子，在世事之上，較比光明之子，更加聰明。
And the lord commended the unjust steward, because he had done wisely: for the children of this world are in their generation wiser than the children of light.

16:9    我又告訴你們，要籍著那不義的錢財，結交朋友。到了錢財無用的時候，他們可以接你們到永存的帳幕裡去。
And I say unto you, Make to yourselves friends of the mammon of unrighteousness; that, when ye fail, they may receive you into everlasting habitations.

16:10    人在最小的事上忠心，在大事上也忠心。在最小的事上不義，在大事上也不義。
He that is faithful in that which is least is faithful also in much: and he that is unjust in the least is unjust also in much.

16:11    倘若你們在不義的錢財上不忠心，誰還把那真實的錢財託付你們呢。
If therefore ye have not been faithful in the unrighteous mammon, who will commit to your trust the true riches?

16:12    倘若你們在別人的東西上不忠心，誰還把你們自己的東西給你們呢。
And if ye have not been faithful in that which is another man's, who shall give you that which is your own?

16:13    一個僕人不能事奉兩個主。不是惡這個愛那個，就是重這個輕那個。你們不能又事奉神，又事奉瑪門。
No servant can serve two masters: for either he will hate the one, and love the other; or else he will hold to the one, and despise the other. Ye cannot serve God and mammon.

16:14    法利賽人是貪愛錢財的，他們聽見這一切話，就嗤笑耶穌。
And the Pharisees also, who were covetous, heard all these things: and they derided him.

16:15    耶穌對他們說，你們是在人面前自稱為義的。你們的心，神卻知道。因為人所尊貴的是神看為可憎惡的。
And he said unto them, Ye are they which justify yourselves before men; but God knoweth your hearts: for that which is highly esteemed among men is abomination in the sight of God.

16:16    律法和先知，到約翰為止。從此神國的福音傳開了，人人努力要進去。
The law and the prophets were until John: since that time the kingdom of God is preached, and every man presseth into it.

16:17    天地廢去，較比律法的一點一畫落空還容易。
And it is easier for heaven and earth to pass, than one tittle of the law to fail.

16:18    凡休妻另娶的，就是犯奸淫。娶被休之妻的，也是犯奸淫。
Whosoever putteth away his wife, and marrieth another, committeth adultery: and whosoever marrieth her that is put away from her husband committeth adultery.

16:19    有一個財主，穿著紫色袍和細麻布衣服，天天奢華宴樂。
There was a certain rich man, which was clothed in purple and fine linen, and fared sumptuously every day:

16:20    又有一個討飯的，名叫拉撒路，渾身生瘡，被人放在財主門口，
And there was a certain beggar named Lazarus, which was laid at his gate, full of sores,

16:21    要得財主桌子上掉下來的零碎充飢。並且狗來舔他的瘡。
And desiring to be fed with the crumbs which fell from the rich man's table: moreover the dogs came and licked his sores.

16:22    後來那討飯的死，被天使放在亞伯拉罕的懷裡。財主也死了，並且埋葬了。
And it came to pass, that the beggar died, and was carried by the angels into Abraham's bosom: the rich man also died, and was buried;

16:23    他在陰間受痛苦，舉目遠遠的望見亞伯拉罕，又望見拉撒路在他懷裡。
And in hell he lift up his eyes, being in torments, and seeth Abraham afar off, and Lazarus in his bosom.

16:24    就喊著說，我祖亞伯拉罕哪，可憐我吧，打發拉撒路來，用指頭尖蘸點水，涼涼我的舌頭。因為我在這火焰裡，極其痛苦。
And he cried and said, Father Abraham, have mercy on me, and send Lazarus, that he may dip the tip of his finger in water, and cool my tongue; for I am tormented in this flame.

16:25    亞伯拉罕說，兒阿，你該回想你生前享過福，拉撒路也受過苦。如今他在這裡得安慰，你倒受痛苦。
But Abraham said, Son, remember that thou in thy lifetime receivedst thy good things, and likewise Lazarus evil things: but now he is comforted, and thou art tormented.

16:26    不但這樣，並且在你我之間，有深淵限定，以致人要從這邊過到你們那邊，是不能的，要從那邊過到我們這邊，也是不能的。
And beside all this, between us and you there is a great gulf fixed: so that they which would pass from hence to you cannot; neither can they pass to us, that would come from thence.

16:27    財主說，我祖阿，既是這樣，求你打發拉撒路到我父家去。
Then he said, I pray thee therefore, father, that thou wouldest send him to my father's house:

16:28    因為我還有五個弟兄。他可以對他們作見證，免得他們也來到這痛苦的地方。
For I have five brethren; that he may testify unto them, lest they also come into this place of torment.

16:29    亞伯拉罕說，他們有摩西和先知的話，可以聽從。
Abraham saith unto him, They have Moses and the prophets; let them hear them.

16:30    他說，我祖亞伯拉罕哪，不是的。若有一個從死裡復活的，到他們那裡去的，他們必要悔改。
And he said, Nay, father Abraham: but if one went unto them from the dead, they will repent.

16:31    亞伯拉罕說，若不聽從摩西和先知的話，就是有一個從死裡復活的，他們也是不聽勸。
And he said unto him, If they hear not Moses and the prophets, neither will they be persuaded, though one rose from the dead.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


17:1    耶穌又對門徒說，絆倒人的事是免不了的。但那絆倒人的有禍了。
Then said he unto the disciples, It is impossible but that offences will come: but woe unto him, through whom they come!

17:2    就是把磨石拴在這人的頸項上，丟在海里，還強如他把這小子裡的一個絆倒了。
It were better for him that a millstone were hanged about his neck, and he cast into the sea, than that he should offend one of these little ones.

17:3    你們要謹慎。若是你們的弟兄得罪你，就勸戒他。他若懊悔，就饒恕他。
Take heed to yourselves: If thy brother trespass against thee, rebuke him; and if he repent, forgive him.

17:4    倘若他一天七次得罪你，又七次迴轉說，我懊悔了，你總要饒恕他。
And if he trespass against thee seven times in a day, and seven times in a day turn again to thee, saying, I repent; thou shalt forgive him.

17:5    使徒對主說，求主加增我們的信心。
And the apostles said unto the Lord, Increase our faith.

17:6    主說，你們若有信心像一粒芥菜種，就是對這棵桑樹說，你要拔起根來栽在海里，他也必聽從你們。
And the Lord said, If ye had faith as a grain of mustard seed, ye might say unto this sycamine tree, Be thou plucked up by the root, and be thou planted in the sea; and it should obey you.

17:7    你們誰有僕人耕地，或是放羊，從田裡回來，就對他說，你快來坐下吃飯呢。
But which of you, having a servant plowing or feeding cattle, will say unto him by and by, when he is come from the field, Go and sit down to meat?

17:8    豈不對他說，你給我豫備晚飯，束上帶子伺候我，等我吃喝完了，你才可以吃喝嗎。
And will not rather say unto him, Make ready wherewith I may sup, and gird thyself, and serve me, till I have eaten and drunken; and afterward thou shalt eat and drink?

17:9    僕人照所吩咐的去作，主人還謝謝他嗎。
Doth he thank that servant because he did the things that were commanded him? I trow not.

17:10    這樣，你們作完了一切所吩咐的，只當說，我們是無用的僕人。所作的本是我們應分作的。
So likewise ye, when ye shall have done all those things which are commanded you, say, We are unprofitable servants: we have done that which was our duty to do.

17:11    耶穌往耶路撒冷去，經過撒瑪利亞和加利利。
And it came to pass, as he went to Jerusalem, that he passed through the midst of Samaria and Galilee.

17:12    進入一個村子，有十個長大麻瘋的迎面而來，遠遠的站著。
And as he entered into a certain village, there met him ten men that were lepers, which stood afar off:

17:13    高聲說，耶穌，夫子，可憐我們吧。
And they lifted up their voices, and said, Jesus, Master, have mercy on us.

17:14    耶穌看見，就對他們說，你們去把身體給祭司察康。他們去的時候就潔淨了。
And when he saw them, he said unto them, Go shew yourselves unto the priests. And it came to pass, that, as they went, they were cleansed.

17:15    內中有一個見自己已經好了，就回來大聲歸榮耀與神。
And one of them, when he saw that he was healed, turned back, and with a loud voice glorified God,

17:16    又俯伏在耶穌腳前感謝他。這人是撒瑪利亞人。
And fell down on his face at his feet, giving him thanks: and he was a Samaritan.

17:17    耶穌說，潔淨了的不是十個人嗎。那九個在那裡呢。
And Jesus answering said, Were there not ten cleansed? but where are the nine?

17:18    除了這外族人，再沒有別人回來歸榮耀與神嗎。
There are not found that returned to give glory to God, save this stranger.

17:19    就對那人說，起來走吧。你的信救了你。
And he said unto him, Arise, go thy way: thy faith hath made thee whole.

17:20    法利賽人問神的國幾時來到。耶穌回答說，神的國來到，不是眼所能見的。
And when he was demanded of the Pharisees, when the kingdom of God should come, he answered them and said, The kingdom of God cometh not with observation:

17:21    人也不得說，看哪，在這裡。看哪，在那裡。因為神的國就在你們心裡。心裡或作中間
Neither shall they say, Lo here! or, lo there! for, behold, the kingdom of God is within you.

17:22    他又對門徒說，日子將到，你們巴不得看見人子的一個日子，卻不得看見。
And he said unto the disciples, The days will come, when ye shall desire to see one of the days of the Son of man, and ye shall not see it.

17:23    人將要對你們說，看哪，在那裡，看哪，在這裡。你們不要出去，也不要跟隨他們。
And they shall say to you, See here; or, see there: go not after them, nor follow them.

17:24    因為人子在他降臨的日子，好像閃電，從天這邊一閃，直照到天那邊。
For as the lightning, that lighteneth out of the one part under heaven, shineth unto the other part under heaven; so shall also the Son of man be in his day.

17:25    只是他必須先受許多苦，又被這世代棄絕。
But first must he suffer many things, and be rejected of this generation.

17:26    挪亞的日子怎樣，人子的日子也要怎樣。
And as it was in the days of Noe, so shall it be also in the days of the Son of man.

17:27    那時候的人又吃又喝，又娶又嫁，到挪亞進方舟的那日，洪水就來，把他們全都滅了。
They did eat, they drank, they married wives, they were given in marriage, until the day that Noe entered into the ark, and the flood came, and destroyed them all.

17:28    又好像羅得的日子。人又吃又喝，又買又賣，又耕種，又蓋造。
Likewise also as it was in the days of Lot; they did eat, they drank, they bought, they sold, they planted, they builded;

17:29    到羅得出所多瑪的那日，就有火與硫磺從天上降下來，把他們全滅了。
But the same day that Lot went out of Sodom it rained fire and brimstone from heaven, and destroyed them all.

17:30    人子顯現的日子，也要這樣。
Even thus shall it be in the day when the Son of man is revealed.

17:31    當那日，人在房上，器具在屋裡，不要下來拿。人在田裡，也不要回家。
In that day, he which shall be upon the housetop, and his stuff in the house, let him not come down to take it away: and he that is in the field, let him likewise not return back.

17:32    你們要回想羅得的妻子。
Remember Lot's wife.

17:33    凡想保全生命的，必喪掉生命。凡喪掉生命的，必救活生命。
Whosoever shall seek to save his life shall lose it; and whosoever shall lose his life shall preserve it.

17:34    我對你們說，當那一夜，兩個人在一個床上。要取去一個，撇下一個。
I tell you, in that night there shall be two men in one bed; the one shall be taken, and the other shall be left.

17:35    兩個女人一同推磨。要取去一個，撇下一個。有古卷在此有
Two women shall be grinding together; the one shall be taken, and the other left.

17:36    兩個人在田裡要取去一個撇下一個
Two men shall be in the field; the one shall be taken, and the other left.

17:37    門徒說，主阿，在那裡有這事呢。耶穌說，屍首在那裡，鷹也必聚在那裡。
And they answered and said unto him, Where, Lord? And he said unto them, Wheresoever the body is, thither will the eagles be gathered together.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


18:1    耶穌設一個比喻，是要人常常禱告，不可灰心。
And he spake a parable unto them to this end, that men ought always to pray, and not to faint;

18:2    說，某城裡有一個官，不懼怕神，也不尊重世人。
Saying, There was in a city a judge, which feared not God, neither regarded man:

18:3    那城裡有個寡婦，常到他那裡，說，我有一個對頭，求你給我伸冤。
And there was a widow in that city; and she came unto him, saying, Avenge me of mine adversary.

18:4    他多日不準。後來心裡說，我雖不懼帕神，也不尊重世人。
And he would not for a while: but afterward he said within himself, Though I fear not God, nor regard man;

18:5    只因這寡婦煩擾我，我就給他伸冤吧。免得他常來纏磨我。
Yet because this widow troubleth me, I will avenge her, lest by her continual coming she weary me.

18:6    主說，你們聽這不義之官所說的話。
And the Lord said, Hear what the unjust judge saith.

18:7    神的選民，晝夜呼籲他，他縱然為他們忍了多時，豈不終久給他們伸冤嗎。
And shall not God avenge his own elect, which cry day and night unto him, though he bear long with them?

18:8    我告訴你們，要快快的給他們伸冤了，然而人子來的時候，遇得見世上有信德嗎。
I tell you that he will avenge them speedily. Nevertheless when the Son of man cometh, shall he find faith on the earth?

18:9    耶穌向那些仗著自己是義人，藐視別人的，設一個比喻，
And he spake this parable unto certain which trusted in themselves that they were righteous, and despised others:

18:10    說，有兩個人上殿裡去禱告。一個是法利賽人，一個是稅吏。
Two men went up into the temple to pray; the one a Pharisee, and the other a publican.

18:11    法利賽人站著，自言自語的禱告說，神阿，我感謝你，我不像別人，勒索，不義，姦淫，也不像這個稅吏。
The Pharisee stood and prayed thus with himself, God, I thank thee, that I am not as other men are, extortioners, unjust, adulterers, or even as this publican.

18:12    我一個禮拜禁食兩次，凡我所得的，都捐上十分之一。
I fast twice in the week, I give tithes of all that I possess.

18:13    那稅吏遠遠的站著，連舉目望天也不敢，只捶著胸說，神阿，開恩可憐我這個罪人。
And the publican, standing afar off, would not lift up so much as his eyes unto heaven, but smote upon his breast, saying, God be merciful to me a sinner.

18:14    我告訴你們，這人回家去，比那人倒算為義了，因為凡自高的，必降為卑，自卑的，必升為高。
I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other: for every one that exalteth himself shall be abased; and he that humbleth himself shall be exalted.

18:15    有人抱著自己的嬰孩，來見耶穌，要他摸他們，門徒看見就責備那些人。
And they brought unto him also infants, that he would touch them: but when his disciples saw it, they rebuked them.

18:16    耶穌卻叫他們來，說，讓小孩子倒我這裡來，不要禁止他們，因為在神國的，正是這樣的人
But Jesus called them unto him, and said, Suffer little children to come unto me, and forbid them not: for of such is the kingdom of God.

18:17    我實在告訴你們，凡要承受神國的，若不像小孩子，斷不能進去。
Verily I say unto you, Whosoever shall not receive the kingdom of God as a little child shall in no wise enter therein.

18:18    有一個官問耶穌說，善良的夫子，我該作什嗎事，才可以承受永生。
And a certain ruler asked him, saying, Good Master, what shall I do to inherit eternal life?

18:19    耶穌對他說，你為什嗎稱我是良善的，除了神一位之外，再沒有良善的。
And Jesus said unto him, Why callest thou me good? none is good, save one, that is, God.

18:20    誡命你是曉得的，不可姦淫，不可殺人，不可偷盜，不可作假見證，當孝敬父母。
Thou knowest the commandments, Do not commit adultery, Do not kill, Do not steal, Do not bear false witness, Honour thy father and thy mother.

18:21    那人說，這一切我從小都遵守了。
And he said, All these have I kept from my youth up.

18:22    耶穌聽見了，就說，你還缺少一件，要變賣你一切所有的，分給窮人，就必有財寶在天上。你還要來跟從我。
Now when Jesus heard these things, he said unto him, Yet lackest thou one thing: sell all that thou hast, and distribute unto the poor, and thou shalt have treasure in heaven: and come, follow me.

18:23    他聽見這話，就甚憂愁，因為他很富足。
And when he heard this, he was very sorrowful: for he was very rich.

18:24    耶穌看見他就說，有錢財的人進神的國，是何等的難哪。
And when Jesus saw that he was very sorrowful, he said, How hardly shall they that have riches enter into the kingdom of God!

18:25    駱駝穿過針的眼，比財主進神的國，還容易呢。
For it is easier for a camel to go through a needle's eye, than for a rich man to enter into the kingdom of God.

18:26    聽見的人說，這樣，誰能得救呢。
And they that heard it said, Who then can be saved?

18:27    耶穌說，在人所不能的事，在神卻能。
And he said, The things which are impossible with men are possible with God.

18:28    彼得說，看哪，我們已經撇下自己所有的跟從你了。
Then Peter said, Lo, we have left all, and followed thee.

18:29    耶穌說，我實在告訴你們，人為神的國，撇下房屋，或是妻子，弟兄，父母，兒女，
And he said unto them, Verily I say unto you, There is no man that hath left house, or parents, or brethren, or wife, or children, for the kingdom of God's sake,

18:30    沒有在今世不得百倍，在來世不得永生的。
Who shall not receive manifold more in this present time, and in the world to come life everlasting.

18:31    耶穌帶著十二個門徒，對他們說，看哪，我們上耶路撒冷去，先知所寫的一切事，都成就在人子身上。
Then he took unto him the twelve, and said unto them, Behold, we go up to Jerusalem, and all things that are written by the prophets concerning the Son of man shall be accomplished.

18:32    他將要被交給外邦人，他們要戲弄他，凌辱他，吐唾沫在他臉上。
For he shall be delivered unto the Gentiles, and shall be mocked, and spitefully entreated, and spitted on:

18:33    並要鞭打他，殺害他，第三日他要復活。
And they shall scourge him, and put him to death: and the third day he shall rise again.

18:34    這些事門徒一樣也不懂得，意思乃是隱藏的，他們不曉得所說的是什嗎。
And they understood none of these things: and this saying was hid from them, neither knew they the things which were spoken.

18:35    耶穌將近耶利哥的時候，有一個瞎子坐在路旁討飯。
And it came to pass, that as he was come nigh unto Jericho, a certain blind man sat by the way side begging:

18:36    聽見許多人經過，就問是什麼事。
And hearing the multitude pass by, he asked what it meant.

18:37    他們告訴他，是拿撒勒人耶穌經過。
And they told him, that Jesus of Nazareth passeth by.

18:38    他就呼叫說，大衛的子孫耶穌阿，可憐我吧。
And he cried, saying, Jesus, thou son of David, have mercy on me.

18:39    在前頭走的人，就責備他，不許他作聲。他卻越發喊叫說，大衛的子孫，可憐我吧。
And they which went before rebuked him, that he should hold his peace: but he cried so much the more, Thou son of David, have mercy on me.

18:40    耶穌站住，吩咐把他領過來。到了跟前，就問他說，
And Jesus stood, and commanded him to be brought unto him: and when he was come near, he asked him,

18:41    你要我為你作什麼。他說，主阿，我要能看見。
Saying, What wilt thou that I shall do unto thee? And he said, Lord, that I may receive my sight.

18:42    耶穌說，你可以看見。你的信救了你了。
And Jesus said unto him, Receive thy sight: thy faith hath saved thee.

18:43    瞎子立刻看見了，就跟隨耶穌，一路歸榮耀與神。眾人看見這事，也讚美神。
And immediately he received his sight, and followed him, glorifying God: and all the people, when they saw it, gave praise unto God.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


19:1    耶穌進了耶利哥，正經過的時候，
And Jesus entered and passed through Jericho.

19:2    有一個人名叫撒該，作稅吏長，是個財主。
And, behold, there was a man named Zacchaeus, which was the chief among the publicans, and he was rich.

19:3    他要看看耶穌是怎樣的人。只因人多，他的身量又矮，所以不得看見。
And he sought to see Jesus who he was; and could not for the press, because he was little of stature.

19:4    就跑到前頭，爬上桑樹，要看耶穌，因為耶穌必從那裡經過。
And he ran before, and climbed up into a sycomore tree to see him: for he was to pass that way.

19:5    耶穌到了那裡，抬頭一看，對他說，撒該，快下來，今天我必住在你家裡。
And when Jesus came to the place, he looked up, and saw him, and said unto him, Zacchaeus, make haste, and come down; for to day I must abide at thy house.

19:6    他就急忙下來，歡歡喜喜的接待耶穌。
And he made haste, and came down, and received him joyfully.

19:7    眾人看見，都私下議論說，他竟到罪人家裡去住宿。
And when they saw it, they all murmured, saying, That he was gone to be guest with a man that is a sinner.

19:8    撒該站著，對主說，主阿，我把所有的一半給窮人。我若訛詐了誰，就還他四倍。
And Zacchaeus stood, and said unto the Lord; Behold, Lord, the half of my goods I give to the poor; and if I have taken any thing from any man by false accusation, I restore him fourfold.

19:9    耶穌說，今天救恩到了這家，因為他也是亞伯拉罕的子孫。
And Jesus said unto him, This day is salvation come to this house, forsomuch as he also is a son of Abraham.

19:10    人子來，為要尋梢拯救失喪的人。
For the Son of man is come to seek and to save that which was lost.

19:11    眾人正在聽見這些話的時候，耶穌因為將近耶路撒冷，又因為他們以為神的國快要顯出來，就另設一個比喻說，
And as they heard these things, he added and spake a parable, because he was nigh to Jerusalem, and because they thought that the kingdom of God should immediately appear.

19:12    有一個貴胄往遠方去，要得國回來。
He said therefore, A certain nobleman went into a far country to receive for himself a kingdom, and to return.

19:13    便叫了他的十個僕人來，交給他們十錠銀子，錠原文作彌拿一彌拿約銀十兩說，你們去作生意，直等我回來。
And he called his ten servants, and delivered them ten pounds, and said unto them, Occupy till I come.

19:14    他本國的人卻恨他，打發使者隨後去說，我們不願意這個人作我們的王。
But his citizens hated him, and sent a message after him, saying, We will not have this man to reign over us.

19:15    他既得國回來，就吩咐叫那領銀子的僕人來，要知道他們作生意賺了多少。
And it came to pass, that when he was returned, having received the kingdom, then he commanded these servants to be called unto him, to whom he had given the money, that he might know how much every man had gained by trading.

19:16    頭一個上來說，主阿，你的一錠銀子，已經賺了十錠。
Then came the first, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained ten pounds.

19:17    主人說，好良善的僕人。你既在最小的事上有忠心，可以有權柄管十座城。
And he said unto him, Well, thou good servant: because thou hast been faithful in a very little, have thou authority over ten cities.

19:18    第二個來說，主阿，你的一錠銀子，已經賺了五錠。
And the second came, saying, Lord, thy pound hath gained five pounds.

19:19    主人說，你也可以管五座城。
And he said likewise to him, Be thou also over five cities.

19:20    又有一個來說，主阿，看哪，你的一錠銀子在這裡，我把他包在手巾裡存著。
And another came, saying, Lord, behold, here is thy pound, which I have kept laid up in a napkin:

19:21    我原是怕你，因為你是嚴厲的人。沒有放下的還要去拿，沒有種下的還要去收。
For I feared thee, because thou art an austere man: thou takest up that thou layedst not down, and reapest that thou didst not sow.

19:22    主人對他說，你這惡僕，我要憑你的口，定你的罪。你既知道我是嚴厲的人，沒有放下的還要去拿，沒有種下的還要去收。
And he saith unto him, Out of thine own mouth will I judge thee, thou wicked servant. Thou knewest that I was an austere man, taking up that I laid not down, and reaping that I did not sow:

19:23    為什麼不把我的銀子交給銀行，等我來的時候，連本帶利都可以要回來呢。
Wherefore then gavest not thou my money into the bank, that at my coming I might have required mine own with usury?

19:24    就對旁邊站著的人說，奪過他這一錠來，給那有十錠的。
And he said unto them that stood by, Take from him the pound, and give it to him that hath ten pounds.

19:25    他們說，主阿，他已經有十錠了。
(And they said unto him, Lord, he hath ten pounds.)

19:26    主人說，我告訴你們，凡有的，還要加給他。沒有的，連他所有的，也要奪過來。
For I say unto you, That unto every one which hath shall be given; and from him that hath not, even that he hath shall be taken away from him.

19:27    至於我那些仇敵不要我作他們王的，把他們拉來，在我面前殺了吧。
But those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.

19:28    耶穌說完了這話，就在前面走，上耶路撒冷去。
And when he had thus spoken, he went before, ascending up to Jerusalem.

19:29    將近伯法其和伯大尼，在一座山名叫橄欖山那裡。就打發兩個門徒，說，
And it came to pass, when he was come nigh to Bethphage and Bethany, at the mount called the mount of Olives, he sent two of his disciples,

19:30    你們往對面村子裡去。進去的時候，必看見一匹驢駒拴在那裡，是從來沒有人騎過的。可以解開牽來。
Saying, Go ye into the village over against you; in the which at your entering ye shall find a colt tied, whereon yet never man sat: loose him, and bring him hither.

19:31    有人問為什麼解他，你們就說，主要用他。
And if any man ask you, Why do ye loose him? thus shall ye say unto him, Because the Lord hath need of him.

19:32    打發的人去了，所遇見的，正如耶穌所說的。
And they that were sent went their way, and found even as he had said unto them.

19:33    他們解驢駒的時候，主人問他們說，解驢駒作什麼。
And as they were loosing the colt, the owners thereof said unto them, Why loose ye the colt?

19:34    他們說，主要用他。
And they said, The Lord hath need of him.

19:35    他們牽到耶穌那裡，把自己的衣服搭在上面，扶著耶穌騎上。
And they brought him to Jesus: and they cast their garments upon the colt, and they set Jesus thereon.

19:36    走的時候，眾人把衣服鋪在路上。
And as he went, they spread their clothes in the way.

19:37    將近耶路撒冷，正下橄欖山的時候，眾門徒因所見過的一切異能，都歡樂起來，大聲讚美神，
And when he was come nigh, even now at the descent of the mount of Olives, the whole multitude of the disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen;

19:38    說，奉主名來的王，是應當稱頌的。在天上有和平，在至高之處有榮光。
Saying, Blessed be the King that cometh in the name of the Lord: peace in heaven, and glory in the highest.

19:39    眾人中有幾個法利賽人對耶穌說，夫子，責備你的門徒吧。
And some of the Pharisees from among the multitude said unto him, Master, rebuke thy disciples.

19:40    耶穌說，我告訴你們，若是他們閉口不說，這些石頭必要呼叫起來。
And he answered and said unto them, I tell you that, if these should hold their peace, the stones would immediately cry out.

19:41    耶穌快到耶路撒冷看見城，就為他哀哭，
And when he was come near, he beheld the city, and wept over it,

19:42    說，巴不得你在這個日子，知道關係你平安的事。無奈這事現在是隱藏的，叫你的眼看不出來。
Saying, If thou hadst known, even thou, at least in this thy day, the things which belong unto thy peace! but now they are hid from thine eyes.

19:43    因為日子將到，你的仇敵必築起土壘，周圍環繞你，四面困住你，
For the days shall come upon thee, that thine enemies shall cast a trench about thee, and compass thee round, and keep thee in on every side,

19:44    並要掃滅你，和你裡頭的兒女，連一塊石頭也不留在石頭上。因你不知道眷顧你的時候。
And shall lay thee even with the ground, and thy children within thee; and they shall not leave in thee one stone upon another; because thou knewest not the time of thy visitation.

19:45    耶穌進了殿，趕出裡頭作買賣的人，
And he went into the temple, and began to cast out them that sold therein, and them that bought;

19:46    對他們，經上說，我的殿，必作禱告的殿。你們倒使他成了賊窩了。
Saying unto them, It is written, My house is the house of prayer: but ye have made it a den of thieves.

19:47    耶穌天天在殿裡教訓人。祭司長，和文士，與百姓的尊長，都想要殺他。
And he taught daily in the temple. But the chief priests and the scribes and the chief of the people sought to destroy him,

19:48    但尋不出法子來，因為百姓都側耳聽他。
And could not find what they might do: for all the people were very attentive to hear him.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


20:1    有一天耶穌在殿裡教訓百姓，講福音的時候，祭司長和文士並長老上前來，
And it came to pass, that on one of those days, as he taught the people in the temple, and preached the gospel, the chief priests and the scribes came upon him with the elders,

20:2    問他說，你告訴我們，你仗著什麼權柄作這些事，給你這權柄的是誰呢。
And spake unto him, saying, Tell us, by what authority doest thou these things? or who is he that gave thee this authority?

20:3    耶穌回答說，我也要問你們一句話。你們且告訴我。
And he answered and said unto them, I will also ask you one thing; and answer me:

20:4    約翰的洗禮，是從天上來的，是從人間來的呢。
The baptism of John, was it from heaven, or of men?

20:5    他們彼此商議說，我們若說從天上來，他必說你們為什麼不信他呢。
And they reasoned with themselves, saying, If we shall say, From heaven; he will say, Why then believed ye him not?

20:6    若說從人間來，百姓都要用石頭打死我們。因為他們信約翰是先知。
But and if we say, Of men; all the people will stone us: for they be persuaded that John was a prophet.

20:7    於是回答說，不知道是從那裡來的。
And they answered, that they could not tell whence it was.

20:8    耶穌說，我也不告訴你們，我仗著什麼權柄作這些事。
And Jesus said unto them, Neither tell I you by what authority I do these things.

20:9    耶穌就設比喻，對百姓說，有人栽了一個葡萄園，租給園戶，就往外國去住了許久。
Then began he to speak to the people this parable; A certain man planted a vineyard, and let it forth to husbandmen, and went into a far country for a long time.

20:10    到了時候，打發一個僕人到園戶那裡去，叫他們把園中當納的果子交給他。園戶竟打了他，叫他空手回去。
And at the season he sent a servant to the husbandmen, that they should give him of the fruit of the vineyard: but the husbandmen beat him, and sent him away empty.

20:11    又打發一個僕人去。他們也打了他，並且凌辱他，叫他空手回去。
And again he sent another servant: and they beat him also, and entreated him shamefully, and sent him away empty.

20:12    又打發第三個僕人去。他們也打傷了他，把他推出去了。
And again he sent a third: and they wounded him also, and cast him out.

20:13    園主說，我怎嗎辦呢。我要打發我的愛子去。或者他們尊敬他。
Then said the lord of the vineyard, What shall I do? I will send my beloved son: it may be they will reverence him when they see him.

20:14    他不料，園戶刻見他，就彼此商量說，這是承受產業的。我們殺他吧，使產業歸於我們。
But when the husbandmen saw him, they reasoned among themselves, saying, This is the heir: come, let us kill him, that the inheritance may be ours.

20:15    於是把他推出葡萄園外殺了。這樣，葡萄園的主人，要怎樣處治他們呢。
So they cast him out of the vineyard, and killed him. What therefore shall the lord of the vineyard do unto them?

20:16    他要求除滅這些園戶，將葡萄園轉給別人。聽見的人說，這是萬不可的。
He shall come and destroy these husbandmen, and shall give the vineyard to others. And when they heard it, they said, God forbid.

20:17    耶穌看著他們說，經上記著，匠人所棄的石頭，已作了房角的頭塊石頭。這是什麼意思呢。
And he beheld them, and said, What is this then that is written, The stone which the builders rejected, the same is become the head of the corner?

20:18    凡掉在那石頭上的，必要跌碎。那石頭掉在誰的身上，就要把誰砸得稀爛。
Whosoever shall fall upon that stone shall be broken; but on whomsoever it shall fall, it will grind him to powder.

20:19    文士和祭司長，看出這比喻是指著他們說的，當時就想要下手拿他。只是懼怕百姓。
And the chief priests and the scribes the same hour sought to lay hands on him; and they feared the people: for they perceived that he had spoken this parable against them.

20:20    於是窺探耶穌，打發奸細裝作好人，要在他的話上得把柄，好將他交在巡撫的政權之下。
And they watched him, and sent forth spies, which should feign themselves just men, that they might take hold of his words, that so they might deliver him unto the power and authority of the governor.

20:21    奸細就問耶穌說，夫子，我們曉得你所講所傳都是正道，也不取人的外貌，乃是誠誠實實傳神的道。
And they asked him, saying, Master, we know that thou sayest and teachest rightly, neither acceptest thou the person of any, but teachest the way of God truly:

20:22    我們納稅給凱撒，可以不可以。
Is it lawful for us to give tribute unto Caesar, or no?

20:23    耶穌看出他們的詭詐，就對他們說，
But he perceived their craftiness, and said unto them, Why tempt ye me?

20:24    拿一個銀錢來給我看。這像和這號是誰的。他們說，是凱撒的。
Shew me a penny. Whose image and superscription hath it? They answered and said, Caesar's.

20:25    耶穌說，這樣，凱撒的物當歸給凱撒，神的物當歸給神。
And he said unto them, Render therefore unto Caesar the things which be Caesar's, and unto God the things which be God's.

20:26    他捫當著百姓，在這話上得不著把柄。又希奇他的應對，就閉口無言了。
And they could not take hold of his words before the people: and they marvelled at his answer, and held their peace.

20:27    撒都該人常說沒有復活的事。有幾個來問耶穌說，
Then came to him certain of the Sadducees, which deny that there is any resurrection; and they asked him,

20:28    夫子，摩西為我們寫著說，人若有妻無子就死了，他兄弟當娶他的妻，為哥哥生子立後。
Saying, Master, Moses wrote unto us, If any man's brother die, having a wife, and he die without children, that his brother should take his wife, and raise up seed unto his brother.

20:29    有弟兄七人。第一個娶了妻，沒有孩子死了。
There were therefore seven brethren: and the first took a wife, and died without children.

20:30    第二個，第三個，也娶過他。
And the second took her to wife, and he died childless.

20:31    那七個人，都娶過他，沒有留下孩子就死了。
And the third took her; and in like manner the seven also: and they left no children, and died.

20:32    後來婦人也死了。
Last of all the woman died also.

20:33    這樣當復活的時候，他是那一個的妻子呢。因為他們七個人都娶過他。
Therefore in the resurrection whose wife of them is she? for seven had her to wife.

20:34    耶穌說，這世界的人，有娶有嫁。
And Jesus answering said unto them, The children of this world marry, and are given in marriage:

20:35    惟有算為配得那世界，與從死裡復活的人，也不娶也不嫁。
But they which shall be accounted worthy to obtain that world, and the resurrection from the dead, neither marry, nor are given in marriage:

20:36    因為他們不能再死。和天使一樣。既是復活的人，就為神的兒子。
Neither can they die any more: for they are equal unto the angels; and are the children of God, being the children of the resurrection.

20:37    至於死人復活，摩西在荊棘篇上，稱主是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，就指示明白了。
Now that the dead are raised, even Moses shewed at the bush, when he calleth the Lord the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob.

20:38    神原不是死人的神，乃是活人的神。因為在他那裡，人都是活的。那裡或作看來
For he is not a God of the dead, but of the living: for all live unto him.

20:39    有幾個文士說，夫子，你說得好。
Then certain of the scribes answering said, Master, thou hast well said.

20:40    以後他們不敢再問他什麼。
And after that they durst not ask him any question at all.

20:41    耶穌對他們說，人怎嗎說基督是大衛的子孫呢。
And he said unto them, How say they that Christ is David's son?

20:42    詩篇上，大衛自己說，主對我主說，你坐在我的右邊，
And David himself saith in the book of Psalms, The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,

20:43    等我使你的仇敵作你的腳凳。
Till I make thine enemies thy footstool.

20:44    大衛既稱他為主，他怎嗎又是大衛的子孫呢。
David therefore calleth him Lord, how is he then his son?

20:45    眾百姓聽的時候，耶穌對門徒說，
Then in the audience of all the people he said unto his disciples,

20:46    你們要防備文士。他們好穿長衣遊行，喜愛人在街市上問他們安，又喜愛會堂裡的高位，筵席上的首座。
Beware of the scribes, which desire to walk in long robes, and love greetings in the markets, and the highest seats in the synagogues, and the chief rooms at feasts;

20:47    他們侵吞寡婦的家產，假意作很長的禱告。這些人要受更重的刑罰。
Which devour widows' houses, and for a shew make long prayers: the same shall receive greater damnation.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


21:1    耶穌抬頭觀看，見財主把捐項投在庫裡。
And he looked up, and saw the rich men casting their gifts into the treasury.

21:2    又見一個窮寡婦，投了兩個小錢。
And he saw also a certain poor widow casting in thither two mites.

21:3    就說，我實在告訴你們。這窮寡婦，所投的比眾人還多。
And he said, Of a truth I say unto you, that this poor widow hath cast in more than they all:

21:4    因為眾人都是自己有餘，拿出來投在捐項裡。但這個寡婦是自己不足，把他一切養生的都投上了。
For all these have of their abundance cast in unto the offerings of God: but she of her penury hath cast in all the living that she had.

21:5    有人談論聖殿，是用美石和供物妝飾的。
And as some spake of the temple, how it was adorned with goodly stones and gifts, he said,

21:6    耶穌就說，論到你們所看見的這一切，將來日子到了，在這裡沒有一塊石頭留在石頭上，不被拆毀了。
As for these things which ye behold, the days will come, in the which there shall not be left one stone upon another, that shall not be thrown down.

21:7    他們問他說，夫子，什麼時候有這件事，這事將到的時候，有什麼豫兆呢。
And they asked him, saying, Master, but when shall these things be? and what sign will there be when these things shall come to pass?

21:8    耶穌說，你們要謹慎，不要受迷惑，因為將來有好些人冒我的名來，說，我是基督，又說，時侯近了，你們不要跟從他們。
And he said, Take heed that ye be not deceived: for many shall come in my name, saying, I am Christ; and the time draweth near: go ye not therefore after them.

21:9    你們聽見打仗和擾亂的事，不要驚惶，因為這些事必須先有，只是末期不能立時就到。
But when ye shall hear of wars and commotions, be not terrified: for these things must first come to pass; but the end is not by and by.

21:10    當時耶穌對他們說，民要攻打民，國要攻打國。
Then said he unto them, Nation shall rise against nation, and kingdom against kingdom:

21:11    地要大大震動，多處必有饑荒瘟疫。又有可怕的異象，和大神蹟，從天上顯現。
And great earthquakes shall be in divers places, and famines, and pestilences; and fearful sights and great signs shall there be from heaven.

21:12    但這一切的事以先，人要下手拿住你們，逼迫你們，把你們交給會堂，並且收在監裡，又為我的名拉你們到君王諸侯面前。
But before all these, they shall lay their hands on you, and persecute you, delivering you up to the synagogues, and into prisons, being brought before kings and rulers for my name's sake.

21:13    但這些事終必為你們的見證。
And it shall turn to you for a testimony.

21:14    所以你們當立定心意，不要豫先思想怎樣分訴。
Settle it therefore in your hearts, not to meditate before what ye shall answer:

21:15    因為我必賜你們口才智慧，是你們一切敵人所敵不住，駁不倒的。
For I will give you a mouth and wisdom, which all your adversaries shall not be able to gainsay nor resist.

21:16    連你們父母，弟兄，親族，朋友，也要把你們交官。你們也有被他們害死的。
And ye shall be betrayed both by parents, and brethren, and kinsfolks, and friends; and some of you shall they cause to be put to death.

21:17    你們要為我的名，被眾人恨惡。
And ye shall be hated of all men for my name's sake.

21:18    然而你們連一根頭髮，也必不損壞。
But there shall not an hair of your head perish.

21:19    你們常存忍耐，就必保全靈魂。或作必得生命
In your patience possess ye your souls.

21:20    你們看見耶路撒冷被兵圍困，就可知道他成荒場的日子近了。
And when ye shall see Jerusalem compassed with armies, then know that the desolation thereof is nigh.

21:21    那時，在猶太的，應當逃到山上。在城裡的，應當出來。在鄉下的，不要進城。
Then let them which are in Judaea flee to the mountains; and let them which are in the midst of it depart out; and let not them that are in the countries enter thereinto.

21:22    因為這是報應的日子，使經上所寫的都得應驗。
For these be the days of vengeance, that all things which are written may be fulfilled.

21:23    當那些日子，懷孕的和奶孩子的有禍。因為將有大災難降在這地方，也有震怒臨到這百姓。
But woe unto them that are with child, and to them that give suck, in those days! for there shall be great distress in the land, and wrath upon this people.

21:24    他們要倒在刀下，又被擄到各國去，耶路撒冷要被外邦人踐踏，直到外邦人的日期滿了。
And they shall fall by the edge of the sword, and shall be led away captive into all nations: and Jerusalem shall be trodden down of the Gentiles, until the times of the Gentiles be fulfilled.

21:25    日月星辰要顯出異兆。地上的邦國也有困苦。因海中波浪的響聲，就慌慌不定。
And there shall be signs in the sun, and in the moon, and in the stars; and upon the earth distress of nations, with perplexity; the sea and the waves roaring;

21:26    天勢都要震動。人想起那將要臨到世界的事，就都嚇得魂不附體。
Men's hearts failing them for fear, and for looking after those things which are coming on the earth: for the powers of heaven shall be shaken.

21:27    那時，他們要看見人子，有能力，有大榮耀，駕雲降臨。
And then shall they see the Son of man coming in a cloud with power and great glory.

21:28    一有這些事，你們就當挺身昂首。因為你們得贖的日子近了。
And when these things begin to come to pass, then look up, and lift up your heads; for your redemption draweth nigh.

21:29    耶穌又設比喻對他們說，你們看無花果樹，和各樣的樹。
And he spake to them a parable; Behold the fig tree, and all the trees;

21:30    他發芽的時侯，你們一看見自然曉得夏天近了。
When they now shoot forth, ye see and know of your own selves that summer is now nigh at hand.

21:31    這樣，你們看見這些事漸漸的成就，也該曉得神的國近了。
So likewise ye, when ye see these things come to pass, know ye that the kingdom of God is nigh at hand.

21:32    我實在告訴你們，這時代還沒有過去，這些事都要成就。
Verily I say unto you, This generation shall not pass away, till all be fulfilled.

21:33    天地要廢去，我的話卻不能廢去。
Heaven and earth shall pass away: but my words shall not pass away.

21:34    你們要謹慎，恐怕因貪食醉酒並今生的思慮，累住你們的心，那日子就如同綱羅忽然臨到你們。
And take heed to yourselves, lest at any time your hearts be overcharged with surfeiting, and drunkenness, and cares of this life, and so that day come upon you unawares.

21:35    因為那日子要這樣臨到全地上一切居住的人。
For as a snare shall it come on all them that dwell on the face of the whole earth.

21:36    你們要時時儆醒，常常祈求，使你們能逃避這一切要來的事，得以站立在人子面前。
Watch ye therefore, and pray always, that ye may be accounted worthy to escape all these things that shall come to pass, and to stand before the Son of man.

21:37    耶穌每日在殿裡教訓人，每夜出城在一座山，名叫橄欖山住宿。
And in the day time he was teaching in the temple; and at night he went out, and abode in the mount that is called the mount of Olives.

21:38    眾百姓清早上聖殿，到耶穌那裡，要聽他講道。
And all the people came early in the morning to him in the temple, for to hear him.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


22:1    除酵節，又名逾越節，近了。
Now the feast of unleavened bread drew nigh, which is called the Passover.

22:2    祭司長和文士，想法子怎嗎才能殺害耶穌，是因為他們懼怕百姓。
And the chief priests and scribes sought how they might kill him; for they feared the people.

22:3    這時，撒但入了那稱為加略人猶大的心，他本是十二門徒裡的一個，
Then entered Satan into Judas surnamed Iscariot, being of the number of the twelve.

22:4    他去和祭司長並守殿官商量，怎嗎可以把耶穌交給他們。
And he went his way, and communed with the chief priests and captains, how he might betray him unto them.

22:5    他們歡喜，就約定給他銀子。
And they were glad, and covenanted to give him money.

22:6    他應允了，就找機會要趁眾人不在跟前的時候，把耶穌交給他們。
And he promised, and sought opportunity to betray him unto them in the absence of the multitude.

22:7    除酵節，須宰逾越羊羔的那一天到了。
Then came the day of unleavened bread, when the passover must be killed.

22:8    耶穌打發彼得，約翰，說，你們去為我們豫備逾越節的筵席，好叫我們吃。
And he sent Peter and John, saying, Go and prepare us the passover, that we may eat.

22:9    他們問他說，要我們在那裡豫備。
And they said unto him, Where wilt thou that we prepare?

22:10    耶穌說，你們進了城，必有人拿著一瓶水迎面而來。你們就跟著他，到他所進的房子裡去。
And he said unto them, Behold, when ye are entered into the city, there shall a man meet you, bearing a pitcher of water; follow him into the house where he entereth in.

22:11    對那家的主人說，夫子說，客房在那裡，我與門徒好在那裡吃逾越節的筵席。
And ye shall say unto the goodman of the house, The Master saith unto thee, Where is the guestchamber, where I shall eat the passover with my disciples?

22:12    他必指給你們擺設整齊的一間大樓，你們就在那裡豫備。
And he shall shew you a large upper room furnished: there make ready.

22:13    他們去了，所遇見的，正如耶穌所說的。他們就豫備了逾越節的筵席）。
And they went, and found as he had said unto them: and they made ready the passover.

22:14    時候到了，耶穌坐席，使徒也和他同坐。
And when the hour was come, he sat down, and the twelve apostles with him.

22:15    耶穌對他們說，我很願意在受害以先，和你們吃這逾越節的筵席。
And he said unto them, With desire I have desired to eat this passover with you before I suffer:

22:16    我告訴你們，我不再吃這筵席，直到我成就在神的國裡。
For I say unto you, I will not any more eat thereof, until it be fulfilled in the kingdom of God.

22:17    耶穌接過杯來，祝謝了，說，你們拿這個，大家分著喝。
And he took the cup, and gave thanks, and said, Take this, and divide it among yourselves:

22:18    我告訴你們，從今以後，我不再喝這葡萄汁，直等神的國來到。
For I say unto you, I will not drink of the fruit of the vine, until the kingdom of God shall come.

22:19    又拿起餅來祝謝了，就擘開遞給他們，說，這是我的身體，為你們舍的。你們也應當如此行，為的是記念我。
And he took bread, and gave thanks, and brake it, and gave unto them, saying, This is my body which is given for you: this do in remembrance of me.

22:20    飯後也照樣拿起杯來，說，這杯是用我血所立的新約，是為你們流出來的。
Likewise also the cup after supper, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood, which is shed for you.

22:21    看哪，那賣我之人的手，與我一同在桌子上。
But, behold, the hand of him that betrayeth me is with me on the table.

22:22    人子固然要照所豫定的去世。但賣人子的人有禍了。
And truly the Son of man goeth, as it was determined: but woe unto that man by whom he is betrayed!

22:23    他們就彼此對問，是那一個要作這事。
And they began to enquire among themselves, which of them it was that should do this thing.

22:24    門徒起了爭論，他們中間那一個可算為大。
And there was also a strife among them, which of them should be accounted the greatest.

22:25    耶穌說，外邦人有君王為主治理他們。那掌權管他們的稱為恩主。
And he said unto them, The kings of the Gentiles exercise lordship over them; and they that exercise authority upon them are called benefactors.

22:26    但你們不可這樣。你們裡頭為大的，倒要像年幼的。為首領的，倒要像服事人的。
But ye shall not be so: but he that is greatest among you, let him be as the younger; and he that is chief, as he that doth serve.

22:27    是誰為大，是坐席的呢，是服事人的呢。不是坐席的大嗎。然而我在你們中間，如同服事人的。
For whether is greater, he that sitteth at meat, or he that serveth? is not he that sitteth at meat? but I am among you as he that serveth.

22:28    我在磨鍊之中，常和我同在的就是你們。
Ye are they which have continued with me in my temptations.

22:29    我將國賜給你們，正如我父賜給我一樣。
And I appoint unto you a kingdom, as my Father hath appointed unto me;

22:30    叫你們在我國裡，坐在我的席上吃喝。並且坐在寶座上，審判以色列十二個支派。
That ye may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom, and sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel.

22:31    主又說，西門，西門，撒但想要得著你們，好篩你們，像篩麥子一樣。
And the Lord said, Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that he may sift you as wheat:

22:32    但我已經為你們祈求，叫你不至於失了信心。你回頭以後，要堅固你的弟兄。
But I have prayed for thee, that thy faith fail not: and when thou art converted, strengthen thy brethren.

22:33    彼得說，主阿，我就是同你下監，同你受死，也是甘心。
And he said unto him, Lord, I am ready to go with thee, both into prison, and to death.

22:34    耶穌說，彼得，我告訴你，今日雞還沒有叫，你要三次說不認得我。
And he said, I tell thee, Peter, the cock shall not crow this day, before that thou shalt thrice deny that thou knowest me.

22:35    耶穌又對他們說，我差你們出去的時候，沒有錢囊，沒有口袋，沒有鞋，你們缺少什麼沒有。他們說，沒有。
And he said unto them, When I sent you without purse, and scrip, and shoes, lacked ye any thing? And they said, Nothing.

22:36    耶穌說，但如今有錢囊的可以帶著，有口袋的也可以帶著。沒有刀的要賣衣服買刀。
Then said he unto them, But now, he that hath a purse, let him take it, and likewise his scrip: and he that hath no sword, let him sell his garment, and buy one.

22:37    我告訴你們，經上寫著說，他被列在罪犯之中。這話必應驗在我身上，因為那關係我的事，必然成就。
For I say unto you, that this that is written must yet be accomplished in me, And he was reckoned among the transgressors: for the things concerning me have an end.

22:38    他們說，主阿，請看，這裡有兩把刀。耶穌說，殼了。
And they said, Lord, behold, here are two swords. And he said unto them, It is enough.

22:39    耶穌出來，照常往橄欖山去。門徒也跟隨他。
And he came out, and went, as he was wont, to the mount of Olives; and his disciples also followed him.

22:40    到了那地方，就對他們說，你們要禱告，免得入了迷惑。
And when he was at the place, he said unto them, Pray that ye enter not into temptation.

22:41    於是離開他們，約有扔一塊石頭那嗎遠，跪下禱告，
And he was withdrawn from them about a stone's cast, and kneeled down, and prayed,

22:42    說，父阿，你若願意，就把這杯撤去。然而不要成就我的意思，只要成就你的意思。
Saying, Father, if thou be willing, remove this cup from me: nevertheless not my will, but thine, be done.

22:43    有一位天使，從天上顯現，加添他的力量。
And there appeared an angel unto him from heaven, strengthening him.

22:44    耶穌極其傷痛，禱告更加懇切。汗珠如大血點，滴在地上。
And being in an agony he prayed more earnestly: and his sweat was as it were great drops of blood falling down to the ground.

22:45    禱告完了，就起來，到門徒那裡，見他們因為憂愁都睡著了。
And when he rose up from prayer, and was come to his disciples, he found them sleeping for sorrow,

22:46    就對他們說，你們為什麼睡覺呢。起來禱告，免得入了迷惑。
And said unto them, Why sleep ye? rise and pray, lest ye enter into temptation.

22:47    說話之間，來了許多人，那十二個門徒里名叫猶大的，走在前頭，就近耶穌，要與他親嘴。
And while he yet spake, behold a multitude, and he that was called Judas, one of the twelve, went before them, and drew near unto Jesus to kiss him.

22:48    耶穌對他說，猶大，你用親嘴的暗號賣人子嗎。
But Jesus said unto him, Judas, betrayest thou the Son of man with a kiss?

22:49    左右的人見光景不好，就說，主阿，我們拿刀砍可以不可以。
When they which were about him saw what would follow, they said unto him, Lord, shall we smite with the sword?

22:50    內中有一個人，把大祭司的僕人砍了一刀，削掉了他的右耳。
And one of them smote the servant of the high priest, and cut off his right ear.

22:51    耶穌說，到了這個地步，由他們吧。就摸那人的耳朵，把他治好了。
And Jesus answered and said, Suffer ye thus far. And he touched his ear, and healed him.



22:52    耶穌對那些來拿他的祭司長，和守殿官，並長老，說，你們帶著刀棒，出來拿我，如同拿強盜嗎。
Then Jesus said unto the chief priests, and captains of the temple, and the elders, which were come to him, Be ye come out, as against a thief, with swords and staves?

22:53    我天天同你們在殿裡，你們不下手拿我。現在卻是你們的時候，黑暗掌權了。
When I was daily with you in the temple, ye stretched forth no hands against me: but this is your hour, and the power of darkness.

22:54    他們拿住耶穌，把他帶到大祭司的宅裡。彼得遠遠的跟著。
Then took they him, and led him, and brought him into the high priest's house. And Peter followed afar off.

22:55    他們在院子裡生了火，一同坐著。彼得也坐在他們中間。
And when they had kindled a fire in the midst of the hall, and were set down together, Peter sat down among them.

22:56    有一個使女，看見彼得坐在火光裡，就定睛看他，說，這個人素來也是同那人一夥的。
But a certain maid beheld him as he sat by the fire, and earnestly looked upon him, and said, This man was also with him.

22:57    彼得卻不承認，說，女子，我不認得他。
And he denied him, saying, Woman, I know him not.

22:58    過了不多的時候，又有一各人看見他，說，你也是他們一黨的。彼得說，你這個人，我不是。
And after a little while another saw him, and said, Thou art also of them. And Peter said, Man, I am not.

22:59    約過了一小時，又有一個人極力的說，他實在是同那人一夥的。因為他也是加利利人。
And about the space of one hour after another confidently affirmed, saying, Of a truth this fellow also was with him: for he is a Galilaean.

22:60    彼得說，你這個人，我不曉得你說的是什麼。正說話之間雞就叫了。
And Peter said, Man, I know not what thou sayest. And immediately, while he yet spake, the cock crew.

22:61    主轉過身來，看彼得。彼得便想起主對他所說的話，今日雞叫以先，你要三次不認我。
And the Lord turned, and looked upon Peter. And Peter remembered the word of the Lord, how he had said unto him, Before the cock crow, thou shalt deny me thrice.

22:62    他就出去痛哭。
And Peter went out, and wept bitterly.

22:63    看守耶穌的人戲弄他，打他，
And the men that held Jesus mocked him, and smote him.

22:64    又蒙著他的眼睛問他說，你是先知，告訴我們，打你的是誰。
And when they had blindfolded him, they struck him on the face, and asked him, saying, Prophesy, who is it that smote thee?

22:65    他們還用別的話辱罵他。
And many other things blasphemously spake they against him.

22:66    天一亮，民間的眾長老連祭司長帶文士都聚會。把耶穌帶到他們的公會裡，
And as soon as it was day, the elders of the people and the chief priests and the scribes came together, and led him into their council, saying,

22:67    說，你若是基督，就告訴我們。耶穌說，我告訴你們，你們也不信。
Art thou the Christ? tell us. And he said unto them, If I tell you, ye will not believe:

22:68    我若問你們，你們也不回答。
And if I also ask you, ye will not answer me, nor let me go.

22:69    從今以後，人子要坐在神權能的右邊。
Hereafter shall the Son of man sit on the right hand of the power of God.

22:70    他們都說，這樣，你是神的兒子嗎。耶穌說，你們所說的是。
Then said they all, Art thou then the Son of God? And he said unto them, Ye say that I am.

22:71    他們說，何必再用見證呢。他親口所說的，我們都親自聽見了。
And they said, What need we any further witness? for we ourselves have heard of his own mouth.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　　


23:1    眾人都起來，把耶穌解到彼拉多面前。
And the whole multitude of them arose, and led him unto Pilate.

23:2    就告他說，我們見這人誘惑國民，禁止納稅給凱撒，並說自己是基督，是王。
And they began to accuse him, saying, We found this fellow perverting the nation, and forbidding to give tribute to Caesar, saying that he himself is Christ a King.

23:3    彼拉多問耶穌說，你是猶太人的王嗎。耶穌回答說，你說的是。
And Pilate asked him, saying, Art thou the King of the Jews? And he answered him and said, Thou sayest it.

23:4    彼拉多對祭司長和眾人說，我查不出這人有什麼罪來。
Then said Pilate to the chief priests and to the people, I find no fault in this man.

23:5    但他們越發極力的說，他煽惑百姓，在猶太遍地傳道，從加利利起，直到這裡了。
And they were the more fierce, saying, He stirreth up the people, teaching throughout all Jewry, beginning from Galilee to this place.

23:6    彼拉多一聽見，就問這人是加利利人嗎。
When Pilate heard of Galilee, he asked whether the man were a Galilaean.

23:7    既曉得耶穌屬希律所管，就把他送到希律那裡去。那時希律正在耶路撒冷。
And as soon as he knew that he belonged unto Herod's jurisdiction, he sent him to Herod, who himself also was at Jerusalem at that time.

23:8    希律看見耶穌，就很歡喜。因為聽見過他的事，久已想要見他。並且指望看他行一件神蹟。
And when Herod saw Jesus, he was exceeding glad: for he was desirous to see him of a long season, because he had heard many things of him; and he hoped to have seen some miracle done by him.

23:9    於是問他許多的話。耶穌卻一言不答。
Then he questioned with him in many words; but he answered him nothing.

23:10    祭司長和文士，都站著極力的告他。
And the chief priests and scribes stood and vehemently accused him.

23:11    希律和他的兵丁就藐視耶穌，戲弄他，給他穿上華麗衣服，把他送回彼拉多那裡去。
And Herod with his men of war set him at nought, and mocked him, and arrayed him in a gorgeous robe, and sent him again to Pilate.

23:12    從前希律和彼拉多彼此有仇。在那一天就成了朋友。
And the same day Pilate and Herod were made friends together: for before they were at enmity between themselves.

23:13    彼拉多傳齊了祭司長，和官府，並百姓，
And Pilate, when he had called together the chief priests and the rulers and the people,

23:14    就對他們說，你們解這人到我這裡，說他是誘惑百姓的。看哪，我也曾將你們告他的事，在你們面前審問他，並沒有查出他什麼罪來。
Said unto them, Ye have brought this man unto me, as one that perverteth the people: and, behold, I, having examined him before you, have found no fault in this man touching those things whereof ye accuse him:

23:15    就是希律也是如此，所以把他送回來。可見他沒有作什麼該死的事。
No, nor yet Herod: for I sent you to him; and, lo, nothing worthy of death is done unto him.

23:16    故此我要責打他，把他釋放了。有古卷在此有
I will therefore chastise him, and release him.

23:17    每逢這節期巡撫必須釋放一個囚犯給他們
(For of necessity he must release one unto them at the feast.)

23:18    眾人卻一齊喊著說，除掉這個人，釋放巴拉巴給我們。
And they cried out all at once, saying, Away with this man, and release unto us Barabbas:

23:19    這巴拉巴是因在城裡作亂殺人下在監裡的。
(Who for a certain sedition made in the city, and for murder, was cast into prison.)

23:20    彼拉多願意釋放耶穌，就又勸解他們。
Pilate therefore, willing to release Jesus, spake again to them.

23:21    無奈他們喊著說，釘他十字架，釘他十字架
But they cried, saying, Crucify him, crucify him.

23:22    彼拉多第三次對他們說，為什麼呢，這人作了什麼惡事呢，我並沒有查出他什麼該死的罪來。所以我要責打他，把他釋放了。
And he said unto them the third time, Why, what evil hath he done? I have found no cause of death in him: I will therefore chastise him, and let him go.



23:23    他們大聲催逼彼拉多，求他把耶穌釘在十字架上。他們的聲音就得了勝，
And they were instant with loud voices, requiring that he might be crucified. And the voices of them and of the chief priests prevailed.

23:24    彼拉多這才照他們所求的定案。
And Pilate gave sentence that it should be as they required.

23:25    把他們所求的那作亂殺人下在監裡的，釋放了。把耶穌交給他們，任憑他們的意思行。
And he released unto them him that for sedition and murder was cast into prison, whom they had desired; but he delivered Jesus to their will.

23:26    帶耶穌去的時候，有一個古利奈人西門，從鄉下來。他們就抓住他，把十字架擱在他身上，叫他揹著跟隨耶穌。
And as they led him away, they laid hold upon one Simon, a Cyrenian, coming out of the country, and on him they laid the cross, that he might bear it after Jesus.

23:27    有許多百姓，跟隨耶穌，內中有好些婦女，婦女們為他號？？痛哭。
And there followed him a great company of people, and of women, which also bewailed and lamented him.

23:28    耶穌轉身對他們說，耶路撒冷的女子，不要為我哭，當為自己和自己的兒女哭。
But Jesus turning unto them said, Daughters of Jerusalem, weep not for me, but weep for yourselves, and for your children.

23:29    因為日子要到，人必說，不生育的，和未會懷胎的，未曾乳養嬰孩的，有福了。
For, behold, the days are coming, in the which they shall say, Blessed are the barren, and the wombs that never bare, and the paps which never gave suck.

23:30    那時，人要向大山說，倒在我們身上。向小山說，遮蓋我們。
Then shall they begin to say to the mountains, Fall on us; and to the hills, Cover us.

23:31    這些事既行在有汁水的樹上，那枯乾的樹，將來怎嗎樣呢。
For if they do these things in a green tree, what shall be done in the dry?

23:32    又有兩個犯人，和耶穌一同帶來處死。
And there were also two other, malefactors, led with him to be put to death.

23:33    到了一個地方，名叫髑髏地，就在那裡把耶穌釘在十字架上，又釘了兩個犯人，一個在左邊，一個在右邊。
And when they were come to the place, which is called Calvary, there they crucified him, and the malefactors, one on the right hand, and the other on the left.

23:34    當下耶穌說，父阿，赦免他們。因為他們所作的，他們不曉得。兵丁就拈鬮分他的衣服。
Then said Jesus, Father, forgive them; for they know not what they do. And they parted his raiment, and cast lots.

23:35    百姓站在那裡觀看。官府也嗤笑他說，他救了別人。他若是基督，神所揀選的，可以救自己吧。
And the people stood beholding. And the rulers also with them derided him, saying, He saved others; let him save himself, if he be Christ, the chosen of God.

23:36    兵丁也戲弄他，上前拿醋送給他喝，
And the soldiers also mocked him, coming to him, and offering him vinegar,

23:37    說，你若是猶太人的王，可以救自己吧。
And saying, If thou be the king of the Jews, save thyself.

23:38    在耶穌以上有一個牌子，有古卷在此有用希臘羅馬希伯來的文字寫著，這是猶太人的王。
And a superscription also was written over him in letters of Greek, and Latin, and Hebrew, THIS IS THE KING OF THE JEWS.

23:39    那同釘的兩個犯人，有一個譏誚他說，你不是基督嗎。可以救自己和我們吧。
And one of the malefactors which were hanged railed on him, saying, If thou be Christ, save thyself and us.

23:40    那一個就應聲責備他說，你既是一樣受刑的，還不怕神嗎。
But the other answering rebuked him, saying, Dost not thou fear God, seeing thou art in the same condemnation?

23:41    我們是應該的。因為我們所受的，與我們所作的相稱。但這個人沒有作過一件不好的事。
And we indeed justly; for we receive the due reward of our deeds: but this man hath done nothing amiss.

23:42    就說，耶穌阿，你得國降臨的時候，求你記念我。
And he said unto Jesus, Lord, remember me when thou comest into thy kingdom.

23:43    耶穌對他說，我實在告訴你，今日你要同我在樂園裡了。
And Jesus said unto him, Verily I say unto thee, To day shalt thou be with me in paradise.

23:44    那時約有午正，遍地都黑暗了，直到申初，
And it was about the sixth hour, and there was a darkness over all the earth until the ninth hour.

23:45    日頭變黑了。殿裡的幔子從當中裂為兩半。
And the sun was darkened, and the veil of the temple was rent in the midst.

23:46    耶穌大聲喊著說，父阿，我將我的靈魂交在你手裡。說了這話，氣就斷了。
And when Jesus had cried with a loud voice, he said, Father, into thy hands I commend my spirit: and having said thus, he gave up the ghost.

23:47    百夫長看見所成的事，就歸榮耀與神說，這真是個義人。
Now when the centurion saw what was done, he glorified God, saying, Certainly this was a righteous man.



23:48    聚集觀看的眾人，見了這所成的事，都捶著胸回去了。
And all the people that came together to that sight, beholding the things which were done, smote their breasts, and returned.

23:49    還有一切與耶穌熟識的人，和從加利利跟著他來的婦女們，都遠遠的站著，看著這些事。
And all his acquaintance, and the women that followed him from Galilee, stood afar off, beholding these things.

23:50    有一個人名叫約瑟，是個議士，為人善良公義。
And, behold, there was a man named Joseph, a counsellor; and he was a good man, and a just:

23:51    眾人所謀所為，他並沒有附從。他本是猶太亞利馬太城裡素常盼望神國的人。
(The same had not consented to the counsel and deed of them;) he was of Arimathaea, a city of the Jews: who also himself waited for the kingdom of God.

23:52    這人去見彼拉多，求耶穌的身體。
This man went unto Pilate, and begged the body of Jesus.

23:53    就取下來用細麻布裹好，安放在石頭鑿成的墳墓裡，那裡頭從來沒有葬過人。
And he took it down, and wrapped it in linen, and laid it in a sepulchre that was hewn in stone, wherein never man before was laid.

23:54    那日是豫備日，安息日也快到了。
And that day was the preparation, and the sabbath drew on.

23:55    那些從加利利和耶穌同來的婦女，跟在後面，看見了墳墓，和他的身體怎樣安放。
And the women also, which came with him from Galilee, followed after, and beheld the sepulchre, and how his body was laid.

23:56    他們就回去，豫備了香料香膏。他們在安息日，便遵著誡命安息了。
And they returned, and prepared spices and ointments; and rested the sabbath day according to the commandment.




新約 -- 路加福音(Luke) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


24:1    七日的頭一日，黎明的時候，那些婦女帶著所豫備的香料，來到墳墓前。
Now upon the first day of the week, very early in the morning, they came unto the sepulchre, bringing the spices which they had prepared, and certain others with them.

24:2    看見石頭已經從墳墓輥開了。
And they found the stone rolled away from the sepulchre.

24:3    他們就進去，只是不見主耶穌的身體。
And they entered in, and found not the body of the Lord Jesus.

24:4    正在猜疑之間，忽然有兩個人站在旁邊。衣服放光。
And it came to pass, as they were much perplexed thereabout, behold, two men stood by them in shining garments:

24:5    婦女們驚怕，將臉伏地。那兩個人就對他們說，為什麼在死人中找活人呢。
And as they were afraid, and bowed down their faces to the earth, they said unto them, Why seek ye the living among the dead?

24:6    他不在這裡，已經復活了。當記念他還在加利利的時候，怎樣告訴你們，
He is not here, but is risen: remember how he spake unto you when he was yet in Galilee,

24:7    說，人子必須被交在罪人手裡，釘在十字架上，第三日復活。
Saying, The Son of man must be delivered into the hands of sinful men, and be crucified, and the third day rise again.

24:8    他們就想起耶穌的話來，
And they remembered his words,

24:9    便從墳墓那裡回去，把這一切事告訴十一個使徒和其餘的人。
And returned from the sepulchre, and told all these things unto the eleven, and to all the rest.

24:10    那告訴使徒的，就是抹大拉的馬利亞，和約亞拿，並雅各的母親馬利亞，還有與他們在一處的婦女。
It was Mary Magdalene, and Joanna, and Mary the mother of James, and other women that were with them, which told these things unto the apostles.

24:11    他們這些話，使徒以為是胡言，就不相信。
And their words seemed to them as idle tales, and they believed them not.

24:12    彼得起來，跑到墳墓前，低頭往裡看，見細麻布獨在一處，就回去了，心裡希奇所成的事。
Then arose Peter, and ran unto the sepulchre; and stooping down, he beheld the linen clothes laid by themselves, and departed, wondering in himself at that which was come to pass.

24:13    正當那日，門徒中有兩個人往一個村子去，這村子名叫以馬忤斯，離耶路撒冷約有二十五里。
And, behold, two of them went that same day to a village called Emmaus, which was from Jerusalem about threescore furlongs.

24:14    他們彼此談論所遇見的這一切事。
And they talked together of all these things which had happened.

24:15    正談論相問的時候，耶穌親自就近他們，和他們同行。
And it came to pass, that, while they communed together and reasoned, Jesus himself drew near, and went with them.



24:16    只是他們的眼睛迷糊了，不認識他。
But their eyes were holden that they should not know him.

24:17    耶穌對他們說，你們走路彼此談論的是什麼事呢。他們就站住，臉上帶著愁容。
And he said unto them, What manner of communications are these that ye have one to another, as ye walk, and are sad?



24:18    二人中有一個名叫革流巴的，回答說，你在耶路撒冷作客，還不知道這幾天在那裡所出的事嗎。
And the one of them, whose name was Cleopas, answering said unto him, Art thou only a stranger in Jerusalem, and hast not known the things which are come to pass there in these days?

24:19    耶穌說，什麼事呢。他們說，就是拿撒勒人耶穌的事。他是個先知，在神和眾百姓面前，說話行事都有大能。
And he said unto them, What things? And they said unto him, Concerning Jesus of Nazareth, which was a prophet mighty in deed and word before God and all the people:

24:20    祭司長和我們的官府，竟把他解去定了死罪，釘在十字架上。
And how the chief priests and our rulers delivered him to be condemned to death, and have crucified him.

24:21    但我們素來所盼望要贖以色列民的就是他。不但如此，而且這事成就，現在已經三天了。
But we trusted that it had been he which should have redeemed Israel: and beside all this, to day is the third day since these things were done.

24:22    再者，我們中間有幾個婦女使我們驚奇，他們清早到了墳墓那裡。
Yea, and certain women also of our company made us astonished, which were early at the sepulchre;

24:23    不見他的身體，就回來告訴我們說，看見了天使顯現，說他活了。
And when they found not his body, they came, saying, that they had also seen a vision of angels, which said that he was alive.

24:24    又有我們的幾個人，往墳墓那裡去，所遇見的，正如婦女們所說的，只是沒有看見他。
And certain of them which were with us went to the sepulchre, and found it even so as the women had said: but him they saw not.

24:25    耶穌對他們說，無知的人哪，先知所說的一切話，你們的心，信得太遲鈍了。
Then he said unto them, O fools, and slow of heart to believe all that the prophets have spoken:

24:26    基督這樣受害，又進入他的榮耀，豈不是應當的嗎。
Ought not Christ to have suffered these things, and to enter into his glory?

24:27    於是從摩西和眾先知起，凡經上所指著自己的話，都給他們講解明白了。
And beginning at Moses and all the prophets, he expounded unto them in all the scriptures the things concerning himself.

24:28    將近他們所去的村子，耶穌好像還要往前行
And they drew nigh unto the village, whither they went: and he made as though he would have gone further.

24:29    他們卻強留他說，時候晚了，日頭已經平西了，請你同我住下吧。耶穌就進去，要同他們住下。
But they constrained him, saying, Abide with us: for it is toward evening, and the day is far spent. And he went in to tarry with them.

24:30    到了坐席的時候，耶穌拿起餅來，祝謝了，擘開，遞給他們。
And it came to pass, as he sat at meat with them, he took bread, and blessed it, and brake, and gave to them.

24:31    他們的眼睛明亮了，這才認出他來。忽然耶穌不見了。
And their eyes were opened, and they knew him; and he vanished out of their sight.

24:32    他們彼此說，在路上，他和我們說話，給我們講解聖經的時候，我們的心豈不是火熱的嗎。
And they said one to another, Did not our heart burn within us, while he talked with us by the way, and while he opened to us the scriptures?

24:33    他們就立時起身，回耶路撒冷去，正遇見十一個使徒，和他們的同人，聚集在一處。
And they rose up the same hour, and returned to Jerusalem, and found the eleven gathered together, and them that were with them,

24:34    說，主果然復活，已經現給西門看了。
Saying, The Lord is risen indeed, and hath appeared to Simon.



24:35    兩個人就把路上所遇見，和擘餅的時候怎樣被他們認出來的事，都述說了一遍。
And they told what things were done in the way, and how he was known of them in breaking of bread.

24:36    正說這話的時候，耶穌親自站在他們當中，說，願你們平安。
And as they thus spake, Jesus himself stood in the midst of them, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.

24:37    他們卻驚慌害怕，以為所看見的是魂。
But they were terrified and affrighted, and supposed that they had seen a spirit.

24:38    耶穌說，你們為什麼愁煩。為什麼心裡起疑念呢。
And he said unto them, Why are ye troubled? and why do thoughts arise in your hearts?

24:39    你們看我的手，我的腳，就知道實在是我了。摸我看看。魂無骨無肉，你們看我是有的。
Behold my hands and my feet, that it is I myself: handle me, and see; for a spirit hath not flesh and bones, as ye see me have.

24:40    說了這話，就把手和腳給他們看。
And when he had thus spoken, he shewed them his hands and his feet.

24:41    他們正喜得不敢信，並且希奇，耶穌就說，你們這裡有什麼吃的沒有。
And while they yet believed not for joy, and wondered, he said unto them, Have ye here any meat?

24:42    他們便給他一片燒魚。有古卷在此有和一塊蜜房
And they gave him a piece of a broiled fish, and of an honeycomb.

24:43    他接過來，在他們面前吃了。
And he took it, and did eat before them.

24:44    耶穌對他們說，這就是我從前與你們同在之時，所告訴你們的話，說，摩西的律法，先知的書，和詩篇上所記的，凡指著我的話，都必須應驗。
And he said unto them, These are the words which I spake unto you, while I was yet with you, that all things must be fulfilled, which were written in the law of Moses, and in the prophets, and in the psalms, concerning me.

24:45    於是耶穌開他們的心竅，使他們能明白聖經。
Then opened he their understanding, that they might understand the scriptures,

24:46    又對他們說，照經上所寫的，基督必受害，第三日從死裡復活。
And said unto them, Thus it is written, and thus it behoved Christ to suffer, and to rise from the dead the third day:

24:47    並且人要奉他的名傳悔改赦罪的道，從耶路撒冷起直傳到萬邦。
And that repentance and remission of sins should be preached in his name among all nations, beginning at Jerusalem.

24:48    你們就是這些事的見證。
And ye are witnesses of these things.

24:49    我要將我父所應許的降在你們身上。你們要在城裡等候，直到你們領受從上頭來的能力。
And, behold, I send the promise of my Father upon you: but tarry ye in the city of Jerusalem, until ye be endued with power from on high.

24:50    耶穌領他們到伯大尼的對面，就舉手給他們祝福。
And he led them out as far as to Bethany, and he lifted up his hands, and blessed them.

24:51    正祝福的時候，他就離開他們，被帶到天上去了。
And it came to pass, while he blessed them, he was parted from them, and carried up into heaven.

24:52    他們就拜他，大大的歡喜，回耶路撒冷去。
And they worshipped him, and returned to Jerusalem with great joy:

24:53    常在殿裡稱頌神。
And were continually in the temple, praising and blessing God. Amen.



