
新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


1:1    太初有道，道與神同在，道就是神。
In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God.

1:2    這道太初與神同在。
The same was in the beginning with God.

1:3    萬物是藉著他造的。凡被造的，沒有一樣不是藉著他造的。
All things were made by him; and without him was not any thing made that was made.

1:4    生命在他裡頭。這生命就是人的光。
In him was life; and the life was the light of men.

1:5    光照在黑暗裡，黑暗卻不接受光。
And the light shineth in darkness; and the darkness comprehended it not.

1:6    有一個人，是從神那裡差來的，名叫約翰。
There was a man sent from God, whose name was John.

1:7    這人來，為要作見證，就是為光作見證，叫眾人因他可以信。
The same came for a witness, to bear witness of the Light, that all men through him might believe.

1:8    他不是那光，乃是要為光作見證。
He was not that Light, but was sent to bear witness of that Light.

1:9    那光是真光，照亮一切生在世上的人。
That was the true Light, which lighteth every man that cometh into the world.

1:10    他在世界，世界也是藉著他造的，世界卻不認識他。
He was in the world, and the world was made by him, and the world knew him not.

1:11    他到自己的地方來，自己的人倒不接待他。
He came unto his own, and his own received him not.

1:12    凡接待他的，就是信他名的人，他就賜他們權柄，作神的兒女。
But as many as received him, to them gave he power to become the sons of God, even to them that believe on his name:

1:13    這等人不是從血氣生的，不是從情慾生的，也不是從人意生的，乃是從神生的。
Which were born, not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God.

1:14    道成了肉身住在我們中間，充充滿滿的有恩典有真理。我們也見過他的榮光，正是父獨生子的榮光。
And the Word was made flesh, and dwelt among us, (and we beheld his glory, the glory as of the only begotten of the Father,) full of grace and truth.

1:15    約翰為他作見證，喊著說，這就是我曾說，那在我以後來的，反成了在我以前的。因他本來在我以前。
John bare witness of him, and cried, saying, This was he of whom I spake, He that cometh after me is preferred before me: for he was before me.

1:16    從他豐滿的恩典裡我們都領受了，而且恩上加恩。
And of his fulness have all we received, and grace for grace.

1:17    律法本是藉著摩西傳的，恩典和真理，都是由耶穌基督來的。
For the law was given by Moses, but grace and truth came by Jesus Christ.

1:18    從來沒有人看見神。只有在父懷裡的獨生子將他表明出來。
No man hath seen God at any time; the only begotten Son, which is in the bosom of the Father, he hath declared him.

1:19    約翰所作的見證，記在下面。猶太人從耶路撒冷差祭司和利未人到約翰那裡，問他說，你是誰。
And this is the record of John, when the Jews sent priests and Levites from Jerusalem to ask him, Who art thou?

1:20    他就明說，並不隱瞞。明說，我不是基督。
And he confessed, and denied not; but confessed, I am not the Christ.

1:21    他們又問他說，這樣你是誰呢，是以利亞嗎。他說，我不是。是那先知嗎，他回答說，不是。
And they asked him, What then? Art thou Elias? And he saith, I am not. Art thou that prophet? And he answered, No.

1:22    於是他們說，你到底是誰，叫我們好回覆差我們來的人。你自己說，你是誰。
Then said they unto him, Who art thou? that we may give an answer to them that sent us. What sayest thou of thyself?

1:23    他說，我就是那在曠野有人聲喊著說，修直主的道路，正如以賽亞所說的。
He said, I am the voice of one crying in the wilderness, Make straight the way of the Lord, as said the prophet Esaias.

1:24    那些人是法利賽人差來的。（或作那差來的是法利賽人）
And they which were sent were of the Pharisees.

1:25    他們就問他說，你既不是基督，不是以利亞，也不是那先知，為什麼施洗呢。
And they asked him, and said unto him, Why baptizest thou then, if thou be not that Christ, nor Elias, neither that prophet?

1:26    約翰回答說，我是用水施洗，但有一位站在你們中間，是你們不認識的，
John answered them, saying, I baptize with water: but there standeth one among you, whom ye know not;

1:27    就是那在我以後來的，我給他解鞋帶，也不配。
He it is, who coming after me is preferred before me, whose shoe's latchet I am not worthy to unloose.

1:28    這是在約旦河外，伯大尼，（有古卷作伯大巴喇）約翰施洗的地方作的見證。
These things were done in Bethabara beyond Jordan, where John was baptizing.

1:29    次日，約翰看見耶穌來到他那裡，就說，看哪，神的羔羊，除去（或作揹負）世人罪孽的。
The next day John seeth Jesus coming unto him, and saith, Behold the Lamb of God, which taketh away the sin of the world.

1:30    這就是我曾說，有一位在我以後來，反成了在我以前的。因他本來在我以前。
This is he of whom I said, After me cometh a man which is preferred before me: for he was before me.

1:31    我先前不認識他，如今我用水施洗，為要叫他顯明給以色列人。
And I knew him not: but that he should be made manifest to Israel, therefore am I come baptizing with water.

1:32    約翰又作見證說，我曾看見聖靈，彷佛鴿子從天降下，住在他的身上。
And John bare record, saying, I saw the Spirit descending from heaven like a dove, and it abode upon him.

1:33    我先前不認識他。只是那差我來用水施洗的，對我說，你看見聖靈降下來，住在誰的身上，誰就是用聖靈施洗的。
And I knew him not: but he that sent me to baptize with water, the same said unto me, Upon whom thou shalt see the Spirit descending, and remaining on him, the same is he which baptizeth with the Holy Ghost.

1:34    我看見了，就證明這是神的兒子。
And I saw, and bare record that this is the Son of God.

1:35    再次日，約翰同兩個門徒站在那裡。
Again the next day after John stood, and two of his disciples;

1:36    他見約穌行走，就說，看哪，這是神的羔羊。
And looking upon Jesus as he walked, he saith, Behold the Lamb of God!



1:37    兩個門徒聽見他的話，就跟從了耶穌。
And the two disciples heard him speak, and they followed Jesus.

1:38    耶穌轉過身來，看見見他們跟著，就問他們說，你們要什麼。他們說，拉比，在那裡住。（拉比翻出來，就是夫子
Then Jesus turned, and saw them following, and saith unto them, What seek ye? They said unto him, Rabbi, (which is to say, being interpreted, Master,) where dwellest thou?

1:39    耶穌說，你們來看。他們就去看他在那裡住，這一天便與他同住，那時約有申正了。
He saith unto them, Come and see. They came and saw where he dwelt, and abode with him that day: for it was about the tenth hour.



1:40    聽見約翰的話，跟從耶穌的那兩個人，一個是西門彼得的兄弟安得烈。
One of the two which heard John speak, and followed him, was Andrew, Simon Peter's brother.

1:41    他先找著自己的哥哥西門，對他說，我們遇見彌賽亞了，（彌賽亞翻出來，就是基督）
He first findeth his own brother Simon, and saith unto him, We have found the Messias, which is, being interpreted, the Christ.

1:42    於是領他去見耶穌。耶穌看見他說，你是約翰的兒子西門，（約翰馬太十六十七節稱約拿）你要稱為磯法。（磯法翻出來，就是彼得）
And he brought him to Jesus. And when Jesus beheld him, he said, Thou art Simon the son of Jona: thou shalt be called Cephas, which is by interpretation, A stone.

1:43    又次日，耶穌想要往加利利去，遇見腓力，就對他說，來跟從我吧。
The day following Jesus would go forth into Galilee, and findeth Philip, and saith unto him, Follow me.

1:44    這腓力是伯賽大人，和安得烈同城。
Now Philip was of Bethsaida, the city of Andrew and Peter.

1:45    腓力找著拿但業，對他說，摩西在律法上所寫的，和眾先知所記的那一位，我們遇見了，就是約瑟的兒子拿撒勒人耶穌。
Philip findeth Nathanael, and saith unto him, We have found him, of whom Moses in the law, and the prophets, did write, Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph.

1:46    拿但業對他說，拿撒勒還能出什麼好的嗎。腓力說，你來看。
And Nathanael said unto him, Can there any good thing come out of Nazareth? Philip saith unto him, Come and see.

1:47    耶穌看見拿但業來，就指著他說，看哪，這是個真以色列人，他心裡是沒有詭詐的。
Jesus saw Nathanael coming to him, and saith of him, Behold an Israelite indeed, in whom is no guile!

1:48    拿但業對耶穌說，你從那裡知道我呢。耶穌回答說，腓力還沒有招呼你，你在無花果樹底下，我就看見你了。
Nathanael saith unto him, Whence knowest thou me? Jesus answered and said unto him, Before that Philip called thee, when thou wast under the fig tree, I saw thee.

1:49    拿但業說，拉比，你是神的兒子，你是以色列的王。
Nathanael answered and saith unto him, Rabbi, thou art the Son of God; thou art the King of Israel.

1:50    耶穌對他說，因為我說在無花果樹底下看見你，你就信嗎。你將要看見比這更大的事。
Jesus answered and said unto him, Because I said unto thee, I saw thee under the fig tree, believest thou? thou shalt see greater things than these.

1:51    又說，我實實在在的告訴你們，你們將要看見天開了，神的使者上去下來在人子身上。
And he saith unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Hereafter ye shall see heaven open, and the angels of God ascending and descending upon the Son of man.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


2:1    第三日，在加利利的迦拿有娶親的筵席。耶穌的母親在那裡。
And the third day there was a marriage in Cana of Galilee; and the mother of Jesus was there:

2:2    耶穌和他的門徒也被請去赴席。
And both Jesus was called, and his disciples, to the marriage.

2:3    酒用盡了，耶穌的母親對他說，他們沒有酒了。
And when they wanted wine, the mother of Jesus saith unto him, They have no wine.

2:4    耶穌說，母親，（原文作婦人）我與你有什麼相干。我的時候還沒有到。
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, what have I to do with thee? mine hour is not yet come.

2:5    他母親對用人說，他告訴你們什麼，你們就作什麼。
His mother saith unto the servants, Whatsoever he saith unto you, do it.

2:6    照猶太人潔淨的規矩，有六口缸擺在那裡，每口可以盛兩三桶水。
And there were set there six waterpots of stone, after the manner of the purifying of the Jews, containing two or three firkins apiece.

2:7    耶穌對用人說，把缸倒滿了水。他們就倒滿了，直到缸口。
Jesus saith unto them, Fill the waterpots with water. And they filled them up to the brim.

2:8    耶穌又說，現在可以舀出來，送給管筵席的。他們就送了去。
And he saith unto them, Draw out now, and bear unto the governor of the feast. And they bare it.

2:9    管筵席嚐了那水變的酒，並不知道是那裡來的，只有舀水的用人知道。管筵席的便叫新郎來。
When the ruler of the feast had tasted the water that was made wine, and knew not whence it was: (but the servants which drew the water knew;) the governor of the feast called the bridegroom,

2:10    對他說，人都是先擺上好酒。等客喝足了，才擺上次的。你倒把好酒留到如今。
And saith unto him, Every man at the beginning doth set forth good wine; and when men have well drunk, then that which is worse: but thou hast kept the good wine until now.

2:11    這是耶穌所行的頭一件神蹟，是在加利利的迦拿行的，顯出他的榮耀來。他的門徒就信他了。
This beginning of miracles did Jesus in Cana of Galilee, and manifested forth his glory; and his disciples believed on him.

2:12    這事以後，耶穌與他的母親弟兄和門徒，都下迦百農去。在那裡住了不多幾日。
After this he went down to Capernaum, he, and his mother, and his brethren, and his disciples: and they continued there not many days.

2:13    猶太人的逾越節近了，耶穌就上耶路撒冷去。
And the Jews' passover was at hand, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem,

2:14    看見殿裡有賣牛羊鴿子的，並有兌換銀錢的人，坐在那裡。
And found in the temple those that sold oxen and sheep and doves, and the changers of money sitting:

2:15    耶穌就拿繩子作成鞭子，把牛羊都趕出殿去。倒出兌換銀錢之人的銀錢，推翻他們的桌子。
And when he had made a scourge of small cords, he drove them all out of the temple, and the sheep, and the oxen; and poured out the changers' money, and overthrew the tables;

2:16    又對賣鴿子的說，把這些東西拿去。不要將我父的殿，當作買賣的地方。
And said unto them that sold doves, Take these things hence; make not my Father's house an house of merchandise.

2:17    他的門徒就想起經上記著說，我為你的殿，心裡焦急，如同火燒。
And his disciples remembered that it was written, The zeal of thine house hath eaten me up.

2:18    因此，猶太人問他說，你既作這些事，還顯什麼神蹟給我們看呢。
Then answered the Jews and said unto him, What sign shewest thou unto us, seeing that thou doest these things?

2:19    耶穌回答說，你們拆毀這殿，我三日內要再建立起來。
Jesus answered and said unto them, Destroy this temple, and in three days I will raise it up.

2:20    猶太人便說，這殿是四十六年才造成的，你三日內就再建立起來嗎。
Then said the Jews, Forty and six years was this temple in building, and wilt thou rear it up in three days?

2:21    但耶穌這話，是以他的身體為殿。
But he spake of the temple of his body.

2:22    所以到他從死裡復活以後，門徒就想起他說過這話，便信了聖經和耶穌所說的。
When therefore he was risen from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this unto them; and they believed the scripture, and the word which Jesus had said.

2:23    當耶穌在耶路撒冷過逾越節的時候，有許多人看見他所行的神蹟，就信了他的名。
Now when he was in Jerusalem at the passover, in the feast day, many believed in his name, when they saw the miracles which he did.

2:24    耶穌卻不將自己交託他們，因為他知道萬人。
But Jesus did not commit himself unto them, because he knew all men,

2:25    也用不著誰見證人怎樣。因他知道人心裡所存的。
And needed not that any should testify of man: for he knew what was in man.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


3:1    有一個法利賽人，名叫尼哥底母，是猶太人的官。
There was a man of the Pharisees, named Nicodemus, a ruler of the Jews:

3:2    這人夜裡來見耶穌，說，拉比，我們知道你是由神那裡來作師傅的。因為你所行的神蹟，若沒有神同在，無人能行。
The same came to Jesus by night, and said unto him, Rabbi, we know that thou art a teacher come from God: for no man can do these miracles that thou doest, except God be with him.

3:3    耶穌回答說，我實實在在的告訴你，人若不重生，就不能見神的國。
Jesus answered and said unto him, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born again, he cannot see the kingdom of God.

3:4    尼哥底母說，人已經老了，如何能重生呢。豈能再進母腹生出來嗎。
Nicodemus saith unto him, How can a man be born when he is old? can he enter the second time into his mother's womb, and be born?

3:5    耶穌說，我實實在在的告訴你，人若不是從水和聖靈生的，就不能進神的國。
Jesus answered, Verily, verily, I say unto thee, Except a man be born of water and of the Spirit, he cannot enter into the kingdom of God.

3:6    從肉身生的，就是肉身。從靈生的，就是靈。
That which is born of the flesh is flesh; and that which is born of the Spirit is spirit.

3:7    我說，你們必須重生，你不要以為希奇。
Marvel not that I said unto thee, Ye must be born again.

3:8    風隨著意思吹，你聽見風的響聲，卻不曉得從那裡來，往那裡去。凡從聖靈生的，也是如此。
The wind bloweth where it listeth, and thou hearest the sound thereof, but canst not tell whence it cometh, and whither it goeth: so is every one that is born of the Spirit.

3:9    尼哥底母問他說，怎能有這事呢。
Nicodemus answered and said unto him, How can these things be?

3:10    耶穌回答說，你是以色列人的先生，還不明白這事嗎。
Jesus answered and said unto him, Art thou a master of Israel, and knowest not these things?

3:11    我實實在在的告訴你，我們所說的，是我們知道的，我們所見證的，是我們見過的。你們卻不領受我們的見證。
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, We speak that we do know, and testify that we have seen; and ye receive not our witness.



3:12    我對你們說地上的事，你門尚且不信，若說天上的事，如何能信呢。
If I have told you earthly things, and ye believe not, how shall ye believe, if I tell you of heavenly things?

3:13    除了從天降下仍舊在天的人子，沒有人升過天。
And no man hath ascended up to heaven, but he that came down from heaven, even the Son of man which is in heaven.

3:14    摩西在曠野怎樣舉蛇，人子也必照樣被舉起來。
And as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, even so must the Son of man be lifted up:

3:15    叫一切信他的都得永生。（或作叫一切信的人在他裡面得永生）
That whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have eternal life.

3:16    神愛世人，甚至將他的獨生子賜給他們，叫一切信他的，不至滅亡，反得永生。
For God so loved the world, that he gave his only begotten Son, that whosoever believeth in him should not perish, but have everlasting life.

3:17    因為神差他的兒子降世，不是要定世人的罪，（或作審判世人下同）乃是要叫世人因他得救。
For God sent not his Son into the world to condemn the world; but that the world through him might be saved.

3:18    信他的人，不被定罪。不信的人，罪已經定了，因為他不信神獨生子的名。
He that believeth on him is not condemned: but he that believeth not is condemned already, because he hath not believed in the name of the only begotten Son of God.

3:19    光來到世間，世人因自己的行為是惡的，不愛光倒愛黑暗，定他們的罪就是在此。
And this is the condemnation, that light is come into the world, and men loved darkness rather than light, because their deeds were evil.

3:20    凡作惡的便恨光，並不來就光，恐怕他的行為受責備。
For every one that doeth evil hateth the light, neither cometh to the light, lest his deeds should be reproved.

3:21    但行真理的必來就光，要顯明他所行的是靠神而行。
But he that doeth truth cometh to the light, that his deeds may be made manifest, that they are wrought in God.

3:22    這事以後，耶穌和門徒到了猶太地，在那裡居住施洗。
After these things came Jesus and his disciples into the land of Judaea; and there he tarried with them, and baptized.

3:23    約翰在靠近撒冷的哀嫩也施洗，因為那裡水多。眾人都去受洗。
And John also was baptizing in Aenon near to Salim, because there was much water there: and they came, and were baptized.

3:24    那時約翰還沒有下在監裡。
For John was not yet cast into prison.

3:25    約翰的門徒，和一個猶太人辯論潔淨的禮。
Then there arose a question between some of John's disciples and the Jews about purifying.

3:26    就來見約翰說，拉比，從前同你在約旦河外，你所見證的那位，現在施洗，眾人都往他那裡去。
And they came unto John, and said unto him, Rabbi, he that was with thee beyond Jordan, to whom thou barest witness, behold, the same baptizeth, and all men come to him.

3:27    約翰說，若不是從天上賜的，人就不能得什麼。
John answered and said, A man can receive nothing, except it be given him from heaven.

3:28    我曾說，我不是基督，是奉差遣在他前面的，你們可以給我作見證。
Ye yourselves bear me witness, that I said, I am not the Christ, but that I am sent before him.

3:29    娶新婦的，就是新郎。新郎的朋友站著聽見新郎的聲音就甚喜樂。故此我這喜樂滿足了。
He that hath the bride is the bridegroom: but the friend of the bridegroom, which standeth and heareth him, rejoiceth greatly because of the bridegroom's voice: this my joy therefore is fulfilled.

3:30    他必興旺，我必衰微。
He must increase, but I must decrease.

3:31    從天上來的，是在萬有之上。從地上來的，是屬乎地，他所說的，也是屬乎地從天上來的，是在萬有之上。
He that cometh from above is above all: he that is of the earth is earthly, and speaketh of the earth: he that cometh from heaven is above all.

3:32    他將所見所聞的見證出來，只是沒有人領受他的見證。
And what he hath seen and heard, that he testifieth; and no man receiveth his testimony.

3:33    那領受他見證的，就印上印，證明神是真的。
He that hath received his testimony hath set to his seal that God is true.

3:34    神所差來的，就說神的話。因為神賜聖靈給他，是沒有限量的。
For he whom God hath sent speaketh the words of God: for God giveth not the Spirit by measure unto him.

3:35    父愛子，已將萬有交在他手裡。
The Father loveth the Son, and hath given all things into his hand.

3:36    信子的人有永生。不信子的人得不著永生，（原文作不得見永生）神的震怒常在他身上。
He that believeth on the Son hath everlasting life: and he that believeth not the Son shall not see life; but the wrath of God abideth on him.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


4:1    主知道法利賽人聽見他收門徒施洗比約翰還多，
When therefore the LORD knew how the Pharisees had heard that Jesus made and baptized more disciples than John,

4:2    （其實不是耶穌親自施洗，乃是他的門徒施洗）
(Though Jesus himself baptized not, but his disciples,)

4:3    他就離了猶太，又往加利利去。
He left Judaea, and departed again into Galilee.

4:4    必須經過撒瑪利亞。
And he must needs go through Samaria.

4:5    於是到了撒瑪利亞的一座城，名叫敘加，靠近雅各給他兒子約瑟的那塊地。
Then cometh he to a city of Samaria, which is called Sychar, near to the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph.

4:6    在那裡有雅各井。耶穌因走路睏乏，就坐在井旁。那時約有午正。
Now Jacob's well was there. Jesus therefore, being wearied with his journey, sat thus on the well: and it was about the sixth hour.

4:7    有一個撒瑪利亞的婦人來打水。耶穌對他說，請你給我水喝。
There cometh a woman of Samaria to draw water: Jesus saith unto her, Give me to drink.

4:8    那時門徒進城買食物去了。
(For his disciples were gone away unto the city to buy meat.)

4:9    撒瑪利亞的婦人對他說，你既是猶太人，怎嗎向我一個撒瑪列亞婦人要水喝呢。原來猶太人和撒瑪利亞人沒有來往。
Then saith the woman of Samaria unto him, How is it that thou, being a Jew, askest drink of me, which am a woman of Samaria? for the Jews have no dealings with the Samaritans.

4:10    耶穌回答說，你若知道神的恩賜，和對你說給我水喝的是誰，你必早求他，他也必早給了你活水。
Jesus answered and said unto her, If thou knewest the gift of God, and who it is that saith to thee, Give me to drink; thou wouldest have asked of him, and he would have given thee living water.

4:11    婦人說，先生沒有打水的器具，井又深，你從那裡得活水呢。
The woman saith unto him, Sir, thou hast nothing to draw with, and the well is deep: from whence then hast thou that living water?

4:12    我們的祖宗雅各，將這井留給我們。他自己和兒子並牲畜，也都喝這井裡的水，難道你比他還大嗎。
Art thou greater than our father Jacob, which gave us the well, and drank thereof himself, and his children, and his cattle?

4:13    耶穌回答說，凡喝這水的，還要再渴。
Jesus answered and said unto her, Whosoever drinketh of this water shall thirst again:

4:14    人若喝我所賜的水就永遠不渴。我所賜的水，要在他裡頭成為泉源，直湧到永生。
But whosoever drinketh of the water that I shall give him shall never thirst; but the water that I shall give him shall be in him a well of water springing up into everlasting life.

4:15    婦人說，先生，請把這水賜給我，叫我不渴，也不用來這嗎遠打水。
The woman saith unto him, Sir, give me this water, that I thirst not, neither come hither to draw.

4:16    耶穌說，你去叫你丈夫也到這裡來。
Jesus saith unto her, Go, call thy husband, and come hither.

4:17    婦人說，我沒有丈夫。耶穌說，你說沒有丈夫，是不錯的。
The woman answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said unto her, Thou hast well said, I have no husband:

4:18    你已經有五個丈夫。你現在有的，並不是你的丈夫。你這話是真的。
For thou hast had five husbands; and he whom thou now hast is not thy husband: in that saidst thou truly.

4:19    婦人說，先生，我看出你是先知。
The woman saith unto him, Sir, I perceive that thou art a prophet.

4:20    我們的祖宗在這山上禮拜。你們倒說，應當禮拜的地方是在耶路撒冷。
Our fathers worshipped in this mountain; and ye say, that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship.

4:21    耶穌說，婦人，你當信我，時候將到，你們拜父，也不在這山上，也不在耶路撒冷。
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, believe me, the hour cometh, when ye shall neither in this mountain, nor yet at Jerusalem, worship the Father.

4:22    你們所拜的，你們不知道。我們所拜的，我們知道。因為救恩是從猶太人出來的。
Ye worship ye know not what: we know what we worship: for salvation is of the Jews.

4:23    時候將到，如今就是了，那真正拜父的，
But the hour cometh, and now is, when the true worshippers shall worship the Father in spirit and in truth: for the Father seeketh such to worship him.

4:24    神是個靈（或無個字）所以拜他的，必須用心靈和誠實拜他。
God is a Spirit: and they that worship him must worship him in spirit and in truth.

4:25    婦人說，我知道彌賽亞，（就是那稱為基督的）要來。他來了，必將一切的事都告訴我們。
The woman saith unto him, I know that Messias cometh, which is called Christ: when he is come, he will tell us all things.

4:26    耶穌說，這和你說話的就是他。
Jesus saith unto her, I that speak unto thee am he.

4:27    當下門徒回來，就希奇耶穌和一個婦人說話。只是沒有人說，你是要什麼。或說，你為什麼和他說話。
And upon this came his disciples, and marvelled that he talked with the woman: yet no man said, What seekest thou? or, Why talkest thou with her?

4:28    那婦人就留下水罐子，往城裡去，對眾人說，
The woman then left her waterpot, and went her way into the city, and saith to the men,

4:29    你們來看，有一個人將我素來所行的一切事，都給我說出來了，莫非這就是基督嗎。
Come, see a man, which told me all things that ever I did: is not this the Christ?

4:30    眾人就出城往耶穌那裡去。
Then they went out of the city, and came unto him.

4:31    這其間，門徒對耶穌說，拉比請吃。
In the mean while his disciples prayed him, saying, Master, eat.

4:32    耶穌說，我有食物吃，是你們不知道的。
But he said unto them, I have meat to eat that ye know not of.

4:33    門徒就彼此對問說，莫非有人拿什麼給他吃嗎。
Therefore said the disciples one to another, Hath any man brought him ought to eat?

4:34    耶穌說，我的食物，就是遵行差我來者的旨意，作成他的工。
Jesus saith unto them, My meat is to do the will of him that sent me, and to finish his work.

4:35    你們豈不說，到收割的時候，還有四個月嗎。我告訴你們，舉目向田觀看，莊稼已經熟了，（原文作發白）可以收割了。
Say not ye, There are yet four months, and then cometh harvest? behold, I say unto you, Lift up your eyes, and look on the fields; for they are white already to harvest.

4:36    收割的人得工價，積畜五穀到永生。叫撒種的和收割的一同快樂。
And he that reapeth receiveth wages, and gathereth fruit unto life eternal: that both he that soweth and he that reapeth may rejoice together.

4:37    俗語說，那人撒種，這人收割，這話可見是真的。
And herein is that saying true, One soweth, and another reapeth.

4:38    我差你們去收你們所沒有勞苦的。別人勞苦，你們享受他們所勞苦的。
I sent you to reap that whereon ye bestowed no labour: other men laboured, and ye are entered into their labours.

4:39    那城裡有好些撒瑪利亞人信了耶穌，因為那婦人作見證說，他將我素來所行的一切事，都給我說出來了。
And many of the Samaritans of that city believed on him for the saying of the woman, which testified, He told me all that ever I did.

4:40    於是撒瑪利亞人來見耶穌，求他在他們那裡住下。他便在那裡住了兩天。
So when the Samaritans were come unto him, they besought him that he would tarry with them: and he abode there two days.

4:41    因耶穌的話，信的人就更多了。
And many more believed because of his own word;

4:42    便對婦人說，現在我們信，不是因為你的話，是我們親自見了，知道這真是救世主。
And said unto the woman, Now we believe, not because of thy saying: for we have heard him ourselves, and know that this is indeed the Christ, the Saviour of the world.

4:43    過了那兩天，耶穌離了那地方，往加利利去。
Now after two days he departed thence, and went into Galilee.

4:44    因為耶穌自己作見證說，先知在本地是沒有人尊敬的。
For Jesus himself testified, that a prophet hath no honour in his own country.

4:45    到了加利利，加利利人既然看見他在耶路撒冷過節所行的一切事，就接待他。因為他們也是上去過節。
Then when he was come into Galilee, the Galilaeans received him, having seen all the things that he did at Jerusalem at the feast: for they also went unto the feast.

4:46    耶穌又到了加利利的迦拿，就是他從前變水為酒的地方。有一個大臣，他的兒子在迦百農患病。
So Jesus came again into Cana of Galilee, where he made the water wine. And there was a certain nobleman, whose son was sick at Capernaum.

4:47    他聽見耶穌從猶太到了加利利，就來見他，求他下去醫治他的兒子。因為他兒子快要死了。
When he heard that Jesus was come out of Judaea into Galilee, he went unto him, and besought him that he would come down, and heal his son: for he was at the point of death.

4:48    耶穌就對他說，若不看見神蹟奇事，你們總是不信。
Then said Jesus unto him, Except ye see signs and wonders, ye will not believe.

4:49    那大臣說，先生，求你趁著我的孩子還沒有死，就下去。
The nobleman saith unto him, Sir, come down ere my child die.

4:50    耶穌對他說，回去吧。你的兒子活了。那人信耶穌所說的話，就回去了。
Jesus saith unto him, Go thy way; thy son liveth. And the man believed the word that Jesus had spoken unto him, and he went his way.

4:51    正下去的時候，他的僕人迎見他，說，他的兒子活了。
And as he was now going down, his servants met him, and told him, saying, Thy son liveth.

4:52    他就問什麼時候見好的。他們說，昨日未時熱就退了。
Then enquired he of them the hour when he began to amend. And they said unto him, Yesterday at the seventh hour the fever left him.

4:53    他便知道這正是耶穌對他說，你的兒子活了的時候，他自己全家就都信了。
So the father knew that it was at the same hour, in the which Jesus said unto him, Thy son liveth: and himself believed, and his whole house.

4:54    這是耶穌在加利利行的第二件神蹟，是他從猶太回去以後行的。
This is again the second miracle that Jesus did, when he was come out of Judaea into Galilee.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


5:1    這事以後，到了猶太的一個節期。耶穌就上耶路撒冷去。
After this there was a feast of the Jews; and Jesus went up to Jerusalem.



5:2    在耶路撒冷，靠近羊門，有一個池子，希伯來話叫作畢士大，旁邊有五個廊子。
Now there is at Jerusalem by the sheep market a pool, which is called in the Hebrew tongue Bethesda, having five porches.

5:3    裡面躺著瞎眼的，瘸腿的，血氣枯乾的，許多病人。（有古卷在此有等候水動
In these lay a great multitude of impotent folk, of blind, halt, withered, waiting for the moving of the water.

5:4    因為有天使按時下池攪動那水，水動之後，誰先下去，無論什麼病，就痊癒了）。
For an angel went down at a certain season into the pool, and troubled the water: whosoever then first after the troubling of the water stepped in was made whole of whatsoever disease he had.

5:5    在那裡有一個人，病了三十八年。
And a certain man was there, which had an infirmity thirty and eight years.

5:6    耶穌看見他躺著，知道他病了許久，就問他說，你要痊癒嗎。
When Jesus saw him lie, and knew that he had been now a long time in that case, he saith unto him, Wilt thou be made whole?

5:7    病人回答說，先生，水動的時候，沒有人把我放在池子裡。我正去的時候，就有別人比我先下去。
The impotent man answered him, Sir, I have no man, when the water is troubled, to put me into the pool: but while I am coming, another steppeth down before me.

5:8    耶穌對他說，起來，拿你的褥子走吧。
Jesus saith unto him, Rise, take up thy bed, and walk.

5:9    那人立刻痊癒，就拿起褥子走了。
And immediately the man was made whole, and took up his bed, and walked: and on the same day was the sabbath.

5:10    那天是安息日，所以猶太人對那醫好的人說，今天是安息日，你拿褥子是不可以的。
The Jews therefore said unto him that was cured, It is the sabbath day: it is not lawful for thee to carry thy bed.

5:11    他卻回答說，那使我痊癒的，對我說，拿你的褥子走吧。
He answered them, He that made me whole, the same said unto me, Take up thy bed, and walk.

5:12    他們問他說，對你說拿褥子走的，是什麼人。
Then asked they him, What man is that which said unto thee, Take up thy bed, and walk?

5:13    那醫好的人不知道是誰。因為那裡的人多，耶穌已經躲開了。
And he that was healed wist not who it was: for Jesus had conveyed himself away, a multitude being in that place.

5:14    後來耶穌在殿裡遇見他，對他說，你已經痊癒了。不要再犯罪。恐怕你遭遇的更加利害。
Afterward Jesus findeth him in the temple, and said unto him, Behold, thou art made whole: sin no more, lest a worse thing come unto thee.

5:15    那人就去告訴猶太人，使他痊癒的是耶穌。
The man departed, and told the Jews that it was Jesus, which had made him whole.

5:16    所以猶太人逼迫耶穌，因為他在安息日作了這事。
And therefore did the Jews persecute Jesus, and sought to slay him, because he had done these things on the sabbath day.

5:17    耶穌就對他們說，我父作事到如今，我也作事。
But Jesus answered them, My Father worketh hitherto, and I work.

5:18    所以猶太人越發想要殺他。因他不但犯了安息日，並且稱神為他的父，將自己和神當作平等。
Therefore the Jews sought the more to kill him, because he not only had broken the sabbath, but said also that God was his Father, making himself equal with God.

5:19    耶穌對他們說，我實實在在的告訴你們，子憑著自己不能作什麼，惟有看見父所作的，子才能作。父所作的事，子也照樣作。
Then answered Jesus and said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, The Son can do nothing of himself, but what he seeth the Father do: for what things soever he doeth, these also doeth the Son likewise.

5:20    愛子，將自己所作的一切事指給他看。還要將比這更大的事指給他看，叫你們希奇。
For the Father loveth the Son, and sheweth him all things that himself doeth: and he will shew him greater works than these, that ye may marvel.

5:21    父怎樣叫死人起來，使他們活著，子也照樣隨自己的意思使人活著。
For as the Father raiseth up the dead, and quickeneth them; even so the Son quickeneth whom he will.

5:22    父不審判什麼人，乃將審判的事全交與子。
For the Father judgeth no man, but hath committed all judgment unto the Son:

5:23    叫人都尊敬子，如同尊敬父一樣。不尊敬子的，就是不尊敬差子來的父。
That all men should honour the Son, even as they honour the Father. He that honoureth not the Son honoureth not the Father which hath sent him.

5:24    我實實在在的告訴你們，那聽我話，又信差我來者的，就有永生，不至於定罪，是已經出死入生了。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that heareth my word, and believeth on him that sent me, hath everlasting life, and shall not come into condemnation; but is passed from death unto life.

5:25    我實實在在的告訴你們，時候將到，現在就是了，死人要聽見神兒子的聲音。聽見的人就要活了。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The hour is coming, and now is, when the dead shall hear the voice of the Son of God: and they that hear shall live.

5:26    因為父怎樣在自己有生命，就賜給他兒子也照樣在自己有生命。
For as the Father hath life in himself; so hath he given to the Son to have life in himself;

5:27    並且因為他是人子，就賜給他行審判的權柄。
And hath given him authority to execute judgment also, because he is the Son of man.

5:28    你們不要把這事看作希奇。時候要到，凡在墳墓裡的，都要聽見他的聲音，就出來。
Marvel not at this: for the hour is coming, in the which all that are in the graves shall hear his voice,

5:29    行善的復活得生，作惡的復活定罪。
And shall come forth; they that have done good, unto the resurrection of life; and they that have done evil, unto the resurrection of damnation.

5:30    我憑著自己不能作什麼。我怎嗎聽見，就怎嗎審判。我的審判也是公平的。因為我不求自己的意思，只求那差我來者的意思。
I can of mine own self do nothing: as I hear, I judge: and my judgment is just; because I seek not mine own will, but the will of the Father which hath sent me.

5:31    我若為自己作見證，我的見證就不真。
If I bear witness of myself, my witness is not true.

5:32    另有一位給我作見證。我也知道他給我作的見證是真的。
There is another that beareth witness of me; and I know that the witness which he witnesseth of me is true.

5:33    你們曾差人到約翰那裡，他為真理作過見證。
Ye sent unto John, and he bare witness unto the truth.

5:34    其實我所受的見證，不是從人來的。然而我說這些話，為要叫你們得救。
But I receive not testimony from man: but these things I say, that ye might be saved.

5:35    約翰是點著的明燈。你們情願暫時喜歡他的光。
He was a burning and a shining light: and ye were willing for a season to rejoice in his light.

5:36    但我有比約翰更大的見證。因為父交給我要我成就的事，就是我所作的事，這便見證我是父所差來的。
But I have greater witness than that of John: for the works which the Father hath given me to finish, the same works that I do, bear witness of me, that the Father hath sent me.

5:37    差我來的父，也為我作過見證。你們從來沒有聽見他的聲音，也沒有看見他的形像。
And the Father himself, which hath sent me, hath borne witness of me. Ye have neither heard his voice at any time, nor seen his shape.

5:38    你們並沒有他的道存在心裡。因為他所差來的，你們不信。
And ye have not his word abiding in you: for whom he hath sent, him ye believe not.

5:39    你們查考聖經。（或作應當查考聖經）因你們以為內中有永生。給我作見證的就是這經。
Search the scriptures; for in them ye think ye have eternal life: and they are they which testify of me.

5:40    然而你們不肯到我這裡來得生命。
And ye will not come to me, that ye might have life.

5:41    我不受從人來的榮耀。
I receive not honour from men.

5:42    但我知道你們心裡，沒有神的愛。
But I know you, that ye have not the love of God in you.

5:43    我奉我父的名來，你們並不接待我。若有別人奉自己的名來，你們倒要接待他。
I am come in my Father's name, and ye receive me not: if another shall come in his own name, him ye will receive.

5:44    你們要互相受榮耀，卻不求從獨一之神來的榮耀，怎能信我呢。
How can ye believe, which receive honour one of another, and seek not the honour that cometh from God only?

5:45    不要想我在父面前要告你們。有一位告你們的，就是你們所仰賴的摩西。
Do not think that I will accuse you to the Father: there is one that accuseth you, even Moses, in whom ye trust.

5:46    你們如果信摩西，也必信我。因為他書上有指著我寫的話。
For had ye believed Moses, ye would have believed me: for he wrote of me.



5:47    你們若不信他的書，怎能信我的話呢。
But if ye believe not his writings, how shall ye believe my words?




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


6:1    這事以後，耶穌渡過加利利海，就是提比哩亞海。
After these things Jesus went over the sea of Galilee, which is the sea of Tiberias.

6:2    有許多人，因為看見他在病人身上所行的神蹟，就跟隨他。
And a great multitude followed him, because they saw his miracles which he did on them that were diseased.

6:3    耶穌上了山，和門徒一同坐在那裡。
And Jesus went up into a mountain, and there he sat with his disciples.

6:4    那時猶太人的逾越節近了。
And the passover, a feast of the Jews, was nigh.

6:5    耶穌舉目看見許多人來，就對腓力說，我們從那裡買餅叫這些人吃呢。
When Jesus then lifted up his eyes, and saw a great company come unto him, he saith unto Philip, Whence shall we buy bread, that these may eat?

6:6    他說這話，是要試驗腓力。他自己原知道要怎樣行。
And this he said to prove him: for he himself knew what he would do.

6:7    腓力回答說，就是二十兩銀子的餅，叫他們各人吃一點，也是不夠的。
Philip answered him, Two hundred pennyworth of bread is not sufficient for them, that every one of them may take a little.

6:8    有一個門徒，就是西門彼得的兄弟安得烈，對耶穌說，
One of his disciples, Andrew, Simon Peter's brother, saith unto him,

6:9    在這裡有一個孩童，帶著五個大麥餅，兩條魚。只是分給這許多人，還算什麼呢。
There is a lad here, which hath five barley loaves, and two small fishes: but what are they among so many?

6:10    耶穌說，你們叫眾人坐下。原來那地方的草多，眾人就坐下。數目約有五千。
And Jesus said, Make the men sit down. Now there was much grass in the place. So the men sat down, in number about five thousand.

6:11    耶穌拿起餅來，祝謝了，就分給那坐著的人。分魚也是這樣，都隨著他們所要的。
And Jesus took the loaves; and when he had given thanks, he distributed to the disciples, and the disciples to them that were set down; and likewise of the fishes as much as they would.

6:12    他們吃飽了，耶穌對門徒說，把剩下的零碎，收拾起來，免得有糟蹋的。
When they were filled, he said unto his disciples, Gather up the fragments that remain, that nothing be lost.

6:13    他們便將那五個大麥餅的零碎，就是眾人剩下的，收拾起來，裝滿了十二個籃子。
Therefore they gathered them together, and filled twelve baskets with the fragments of the five barley loaves, which remained over and above unto them that had eaten.

6:14    眾人看見耶穌所行的神蹟。就說，這真是那要到世間來的先知。
Then those men, when they had seen the miracle that Jesus did, said, This is of a truth that prophet that should come into the world.

6:15    耶穌既知道眾人要來強逼他作王，就獨自又退到山上去了。
When Jesus therefore perceived that they would come and take him by force, to make him a king, he departed again into a mountain himself alone.

6:16    到了晚上，他的門徒下海邊去，
And when even was now come, his disciples went down unto the sea,



6:17    上了船，要過海往迦百農去。天已經黑了，耶穌還沒有來到他們那裡。
And entered into a ship, and went over the sea toward Capernaum. And it was now dark, and Jesus was not come to them.

6:18    忽然狂風大作，海就翻騰起來。
And the sea arose by reason of a great wind that blew.

6:19    門徒搖櫓約行了十里多路，看見耶穌在海面上走，漸漸近了船，他們就害怕。
So when they had rowed about five and twenty or thirty furlongs, they see Jesus walking on the sea, and drawing nigh unto the ship: and they were afraid.

6:20    耶穌對他們說，是我。不要怕。
But he saith unto them, It is I; be not afraid.

6:21    門徒就喜歡接他上船，船立時到了他們所要去的地方。
Then they willingly received him into the ship: and immediately the ship was at the land whither they went.

6:22    第二日，站在海那邊的眾人，知道那裡沒有別的船，只有一隻小船，又知道耶穌沒有同他的門徒上船，乃是門徒自己去的。
The day following, when the people which stood on the other side of the sea saw that there was none other boat there, save that one whereinto his disciples were entered, and that Jesus went not with his disciples into the boat, but that his disciples were gone away alone;

6:23    然而有幾隻小船從提比哩亞來，靠近主祝謝後分餅給人吃的地方。
(Howbeit there came other boats from Tiberias nigh unto the place where they did eat bread, after that the Lord had given thanks:)

6:24    眾人見耶穌和門徒，都不在那裡，就上了船，往迦百農去找耶穌。
When the people therefore saw that Jesus was not there, neither his disciples, they also took shipping, and came to Capernaum, seeking for Jesus.

6:25    既在海那邊找著了，就對他說，拉比，是幾時到這裡來的。
And when they had found him on the other side of the sea, they said unto him, Rabbi, when camest thou hither?

6:26    耶穌回答說，我實實在在的告訴你們，你們找我，並不是因見了神蹟，乃是因吃餅得飽。
Jesus answered them and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Ye seek me, not because ye saw the miracles, but because ye did eat of the loaves, and were filled.

6:27    不要為那必壞的食物勞力，要為那存到永生的食物勞力，就是人子要賜給你們的。因為人子是父神所印證的。
Labour not for the meat which perisheth, but for that meat which endureth unto everlasting life, which the Son of man shall give unto you: for him hath God the Father sealed.

6:28    眾人問他說，我們當行什麼，才算作神的工呢。
Then said they unto him, What shall we do, that we might work the works of God?

6:29    耶穌回答說，信神所差來的，這就是作神的工。
Jesus answered and said unto them, This is the work of God, that ye believe on him whom he hath sent.

6:30    他們又說，你行什麼神蹟，叫我們看見就信你。你到底作什麼事呢。
They said therefore unto him, What sign shewest thou then, that we may see, and believe thee? what dost thou work?

6:31    我們的祖宗在曠野吃過嗎哪，如經上寫著說，他從天上賜下糧來給他們吃。
Our fathers did eat manna in the desert; as it is written, He gave them bread from heaven to eat.

6:32    耶穌說，我實實在在的告訴你們，那從天上來的糧，不是摩西賜給你們的，乃是我父將天上的真糧賜給你們。
Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Moses gave you not that bread from heaven; but my Father giveth you the true bread from heaven.

6:33    因為神的糧，就是那從天上降下來賜生命給世界的。
For the bread of God is he which cometh down from heaven, and giveth life unto the world.

6:34    他們說，主阿，常將這糧賜給我們。
Then said they unto him, Lord, evermore give us this bread.

6:35    耶穌說，我就是生命的糧。到我這裡來的，必定不餓。信我的，永遠不渴。
And Jesus said unto them, I am the bread of life: he that cometh to me shall never hunger; and he that believeth on me shall never thirst.

6:36    只是我對你們說過，你們已經看見我，還是不信。
But I said unto you, That ye also have seen me, and believe not.

6:37    凡父所賜給我的人，必到我這裡來。到我這裡來的，我總不丟棄他。
All that the Father giveth me shall come to me; and him that cometh to me I will in no wise cast out.

6:38    因為我從天上!降下來，不是要按自己的意思行，乃是要按那差我來者的意思行。
For I came down from heaven, not to do mine own will, but the will of him that sent me.

6:39    差我來者的意思，就是他所賜給我的，叫一個也不失落，在末日卻叫他復活。
And this is the Father's will which hath sent me, that of all which he hath given me I should lose nothing, but should raise it up again at the last day.

6:40    因為我父的意思，是叫一切見子而信的人得永生。並且在末日我要叫他復活。
And this is the will of him that sent me, that every one which seeth the Son, and believeth on him, may have everlasting life: and I will raise him up at the last day.

6:41    猶太人因為耶穌說，我是從天上降下來的糧，就私下議論他。
The Jews then murmured at him, because he said, I am the bread which came down from heaven.

6:42    說，這不是約瑟的兒子耶穌嗎。他的父母我們豈不認得嗎。他如今怎嗎說，我是從天上降下來的呢。
And they said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph, whose father and mother we know? how is it then that he saith, I came down from heaven?

6:43    耶穌回答說，你們不要大家議論。
Jesus therefore answered and said unto them, Murmur not among yourselves.

6:44    若不是差我來的父吸引人，就沒有能到我這裡來的。到我這裡來的，在末日我要叫他復活。
No man can come to me, except the Father which hath sent me draw him: and I will raise him up at the last day.

6:45    在先知書上寫著說，他們都要蒙神的教訓。凡聽見父之教訓又學習的，就到我這裡來。
It is written in the prophets, And they shall be all taught of God. Every man therefore that hath heard, and hath learned of the Father, cometh unto me.

6:46    這不是說，有人看過父，惟獨從神來的，他看見過父。
Not that any man hath seen the Father, save he which is of God, he hath seen the Father.

6:47    我實實在在的告訴你們，信的人有永生。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me hath everlasting life.

6:48    我就是生命的糧。
I am that bread of life.

6:49    你們的祖宗在曠野吃過嗎哪，還是死了。
Your fathers did eat manna in the wilderness, and are dead.

6:50    這是從天上降下來的糧，叫人吃了就不死。
This is the bread which cometh down from heaven, that a man may eat thereof, and not die.

6:51    我是從天上降下來生命的糧。人若吃這糧，就必永遠活著。我所要賜的糧，就是我的肉，為世人之生命所賜的。
I am the living bread which came down from heaven: if any man eat of this bread, he shall live for ever: and the bread that I will give is my flesh, which I will give for the life of the world.

6:52    因此，猶太人彼此爭論說，這個人怎能把他的肉，給我們吃呢。
The Jews therefore strove among themselves, saying, How can this man give us his flesh to eat?

6:53    耶穌說，我實實在在的告訴你們，你們若不吃人子的肉，不喝人子的血，就沒有生命在你們裡面。
Then Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except ye eat the flesh of the Son of man, and drink his blood, ye have no life in you.

6:54    吃我肉，喝我血的人就有永生。在末日我要叫他復活。
Whoso eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, hath eternal life; and I will raise him up at the last day.

6:55    我的肉真是可吃的，我的血真是可喝的。
For my flesh is meat indeed, and my blood is drink indeed.

6:56    吃我肉喝我血的人，常在我裡面，我也常在他裡面。
He that eateth my flesh, and drinketh my blood, dwelleth in me, and I in him.

6:57    永活的父怎樣差我來，我又因父活著，照樣，吃我肉的人，也要因我活著。
As the living Father hath sent me, and I live by the Father: so he that eateth me, even he shall live by me.

6:58    這就是從天上降下來的糧。吃這個糧的人，就永遠活著，不像你們的祖宗吃過嗎哪，還是死了。
This is that bread which came down from heaven: not as your fathers did eat manna, and are dead: he that eateth of this bread shall live for ever.

6:59    這些話是耶穌在迦百農會堂裡教訓人說的。
These things said he in the synagogue, as he taught in Capernaum.

6:60    他的門徒中有好些人聽見了，就說，這話甚難，誰能聽呢。
Many therefore of his disciples, when they had heard this, said, This is an hard saying; who can hear it?

6:61    耶穌心裡知道門徒為這話議論，就對他們說，這話是叫你們厭棄嗎。（厭棄原文作跌倒）
When Jesus knew in himself that his disciples murmured at it, he said unto them, Doth this offend you?

6:62    倘或你們看見人子升到他原來所在之處，怎嗎樣呢。
What and if ye shall see the Son of man ascend up where he was before?

6:63    叫人活著的乃是靈，肉體是無益的。我對你們所說的話，就是靈，就是生命。
It is the spirit that quickeneth; the flesh profiteth nothing: the words that I speak unto you, they are spirit, and they are life.

6:64    只是你們中間有不信的人。耶穌從起頭就知道，誰不信他，誰要賣他。
But there are some of you that believe not. For Jesus knew from the beginning who they were that believed not, and who should betray him.

6:65    耶穌又說，所以我對你們說過，若不是蒙我父的恩賜，沒有人能到我這裡來。
And he said, Therefore said I unto you, that no man can come unto me, except it were given unto him of my Father.

6:66    從此他門徒中多有退去的，不再和他同行。
From that time many of his disciples went back, and walked no more with him.

6:67    耶穌就對那十二個門徒說，你們也要去嗎。
Then said Jesus unto the twelve, Will ye also go away?

6:68    西門彼得回答說，主阿，你有永生之道，我們還歸從誰呢。
Then Simon Peter answered him, Lord, to whom shall we go? thou hast the words of eternal life.



6:69    我們已經信了，又知道你是神的聖者。
And we believe and are sure that thou art that Christ, the Son of the living God.

6:70    耶穌說，我不是揀選了你們十二個門徒嗎，但你們中間有一個是魔鬼。
Jesus answered them, Have not I chosen you twelve, and one of you is a devil?

6:71    耶穌這話是指著加略人西門的兒子猶大說的。他本是十二個門徒裡的一個，後來要賣耶穌的。
He spake of Judas Iscariot the son of Simon: for he it was that should betray him, being one of the twelve.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


7:1    這事以後，耶穌在加利利遊行，不願在猶太遊行。因為猶太人想要殺他。
After these things Jesus walked in Galilee: for he would not walk in Jewry, because the Jews sought to kill him.

7:2    當時猶太人的住棚節近了。
Now the Jews' feast of tabernacles was at hand.

7:3    耶穌的弟兄就對他說，你離開這裡上猶太去吧，叫你的門徒也看見你所行的事。
His brethren therefore said unto him, Depart hence, and go into Judaea, that thy disciples also may see the works that thou doest.

7:4    人要顯揚名聲，沒有在暗處行事的。你如果行這事，就當將自己顯明給世人看。
For there is no man that doeth any thing in secret, and he himself seeketh to be known openly. If thou do these things, shew thyself to the world.

7:5    因為連他的弟兄說這話，是因為不信他。
For neither did his brethren believe in him.

7:6    耶穌就對他們說，我的時候還沒有到。你們的時候常是方便的。
Then Jesus said unto them, My time is not yet come: but your time is alway ready.

7:7    世人不能恨你們，卻是恨我。因為我指證他們所作的事是惡的。
The world cannot hate you; but me it hateth, because I testify of it, that the works thereof are evil.

7:8    你們上去過節吧。我現在不上去過這節。因為我的時候還沒有滿。
Go ye up unto this feast: I go not up yet unto this feast: for my time is not yet full come.

7:9    耶穌說了這話，仍舊住在加利利。
When he had said these words unto them, he abode still in Galilee.

7:10    但他兄弟上去以後，他也上去過節，不是明去，似乎是暗去的。
But when his brethren were gone up, then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret.

7:11    正在節期，猶太人尋梢耶穌說，他在那裡。
Then the Jews sought him at the feast, and said, Where is he?

7:12    眾人為他紛紛議論。有的說，他是好人。有的說，不然，他是迷惑眾人的。
And there was much murmuring among the people concerning him: for some said, He is a good man: others said, Nay; but he deceiveth the people.

7:13    只是沒有人明明的講論他，因為怕猶太人。
Howbeit no man spake openly of him for fear of the Jews.

7:14    到了節期，耶穌上殿裡去教訓人。
Now about the midst of the feast Jesus went up into the temple, and taught.

7:15    猶太人就希奇說，這個人沒有學過，怎嗎明白書呢。
And the Jews marvelled, saying, How knoweth this man letters, having never learned?

7:16    耶穌說，我的教訓不是我自己的，乃是那差我來者的。
Jesus answered them, and said, My doctrine is not mine, but his that sent me.

7:17    人若立志遵著他的旨意行，就必曉得這教訓或是出於神，或是我憑著自己說的。
If any man will do his will, he shall know of the doctrine, whether it be of God, or whether I speak of myself.

7:18    人憑著自己說，是求自己的榮耀。惟有求那差他來者的榮耀，這人是真的，在他心裡沒有不義。
He that speaketh of himself seeketh his own glory: but he that seeketh his glory that sent him, the same is true, and no unrighteousness is in him.

7:19    摩西豈不是傳律法給你們嗎。你們卻沒有一個人守律法。為什麼想要殺我呢。
Did not Moses give you the law, and yet none of you keepeth the law? Why go ye about to kill me?

7:20    眾人回答說，你是被鬼附著了。誰想要殺你。
The people answered and said, Thou hast a devil: who goeth about to kill thee?

7:21    耶穌說，我作了一件事，你們都以為希奇。
Jesus answered and said unto them, I have done one work, and ye all marvel.

7:22    摩西傳割禮給你們，（其實不是從摩西起的，乃是從祖先起的）因此你們也要在安息日給人行割禮。
Moses therefore gave unto you circumcision; (not because it is of Moses, but of the fathers;) and ye on the sabbath day circumcise a man.

7:23    人若在安息日受割禮，免得違背摩西的律法。我在安息日叫一個人全然好了，你們就向我生氣嗎。
If a man on the sabbath day receive circumcision, that the law of Moses should not be broken; are ye angry at me, because I have made a man every whit whole on the sabbath day?

7:24    不可按外貌斷定是非，總要按公平斷定是非。
Judge not according to the appearance, but judge righteous judgment.

7:25    耶路撒冷人中有的說，這不是他們想要殺的人嗎。
Then said some of them of Jerusalem, Is not this he, whom they seek to kill?

7:26    你看他還明明的講道，他們也不向他說什麼。難道官長真知道這是基督嗎。
But, lo, he speaketh boldly, and they say nothing unto him. Do the rulers know indeed that this is the very Christ?

7:27    然而我們知道這個人從那裡來。只是基督來的時候，沒有人知道他是從那裡來的。
Howbeit we know this man whence he is: but when Christ cometh, no man knoweth whence he is.

7:28    那時耶穌在殿裡教訓人，大聲說，你們也知道我，也知道我從那裡來。我來並不是由於自己，但那差我來的是真的。你們不認識他。
Then cried Jesus in the temple as he taught, saying, Ye both know me, and ye know whence I am: and I am not come of myself, but he that sent me is true, whom ye know not.

7:29    我卻認識他。因為我是從他來的，他也差了我來。
But I know him: for I am from him, and he hath sent me.

7:30    他們就想要捉拿耶穌。只是沒有人下手，因為他的時候還沒有到。
Then they sought to take him: but no man laid hands on him, because his hour was not yet come.

7:31    但眾人中間有些信他的，說，基督來的時候，他所行的神蹟，豈能比這人所行的更多嗎。
And many of the people believed on him, and said, When Christ cometh, will he do more miracles than these which this man hath done?

7:32    法利賽人聽見眾人為耶穌這樣紛紛議論，祭司長和法利賽人，就打發差役去捉拿他。
The Pharisees heard that the people murmured such things concerning him; and the Pharisees and the chief priests sent officers to take him.

7:33    於是耶穌說，我還有不多的時候和你們同在，以後就回到差我來的那裡去。
Then said Jesus unto them, Yet a little while am I with you, and then I go unto him that sent me.

7:34    你們要找我，卻找不著。我所在的地方你們不能到。
Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come.

7:35    猶太人就彼此對問說，這人要往那裡去，叫我們找不著呢。難道他要往散住希臘中的猶太人那裡去教訓希臘人嗎。
Then said the Jews among themselves, Whither will he go, that we shall not find him? will he go unto the dispersed among the Gentiles, and teach the Gentiles?

7:36    他說，你們要找我，卻找不著，我所在的地方，你們不能到。這話是什麼意思呢。
What manner of saying is this that he said, Ye shall seek me, and shall not find me: and where I am, thither ye cannot come?

7:37    節期的末日，就是最大之日，耶穌站著高聲說，人若渴了，可以到我這裡來喝。
In the last day, that great day of the feast, Jesus stood and cried, saying, If any man thirst, let him come unto me, and drink.

7:38    信我的人，就如經上所說，從他復中要流出活水的江河來。
He that believeth on me, as the scripture hath said, out of his belly shall flow rivers of living water.

7:39    耶穌這話是指著信他之人，要受聖靈說的，那時還沒有賜下聖靈來，因為耶穌尚未得著榮耀。
(But this spake he of the Spirit, which they that believe on him should receive: for the Holy Ghost was not yet given; because that Jesus was not yet glorified.)

7:40    眾人聽見這話，有的說，這真是那先知。
Many of the people therefore, when they heard this saying, said, Of a truth this is the Prophet.

7:41    有的說，這是基督。但也有的說，基督豈是從加利利出來的嗎。
Others said, This is the Christ. But some said, Shall Christ come out of Galilee?

7:42    經上豈不是說，基督是大衛的後裔，從大衛本鄉伯利恆出來的嗎。
Hath not the scripture said, That Christ cometh of the seed of David, and out of the town of Bethlehem, where David was?



7:43    於是眾人因著耶穌起了分爭。
So there was a division among the people because of him.

7:44    其中有人要捉拿他。只是無人下手。
And some of them would have taken him; but no man laid hands on him.

7:45    差役回到祭司長和法利賽人那裡。他們對差役說，你們為什麼沒有帶他來呢。
Then came the officers to the chief priests and Pharisees; and they said unto them, Why have ye not brought him?

7:46    差役回答說，從來沒有像他這樣說話的。
The officers answered, Never man spake like this man.

7:47    法利賽人說，你們也受了迷惑嗎。
Then answered them the Pharisees, Are ye also deceived?

7:48    官長或是法利賽人，豈有信他的呢。
Have any of the rulers or of the Pharisees believed on him?

7:49    但這些不明白律法的百姓，是被咒詛的。
But this people who knoweth not the law are cursed.

7:50    內中有尼哥底母，就是從前去見耶穌的，對他們說，
Nicodemus saith unto them, (he that came to Jesus by night, being one of them,)

7:51    不先聽本人的口供，不知道他所作的事，難道我們的律法還定他的罪嗎。
Doth our law judge any man, before it hear him, and know what he doeth?

7:52    他們回答說，你也是出於加利利嗎。你且去查考，就可知道，加利利沒有出過先知。
They answered and said unto him, Art thou also of Galilee? Search, and look: for out of Galilee ariseth no prophet.

7:53    *
And every man went unto his own house.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


8:1    於是各人都回家去了。耶穌卻往橄欖山去。
Jesus went unto the mount of Olives.

8:2    清早又回到殿裡。眾百姓都到他那裡去，他就坐下教訓他們。
And early in the morning he came again into the temple, and all the people came unto him; and he sat down, and taught them.

8:3    文士和法利賽人，帶著一個行淫時被拿的婦人來，叫他站在當中。
And the scribes and Pharisees brought unto him a woman taken in adultery; and when they had set her in the midst,

8:4    就對耶穌說，夫子，這婦人是正行淫之時被拿的。
They say unto him, Master, this woman was taken in adultery, in the very act.

8:5    摩西在律法上吩咐我們，把這樣的婦人用石頭打死。你說該把他怎嗎樣呢。
Now Moses in the law commanded us, that such should be stoned: but what sayest thou?

8:6    他們說這話，乃試探耶穌，要得著告他的把柄。耶穌卻彎著腰用指頭在地上畫字。
This they said, tempting him, that they might have to accuse him. But Jesus stooped down, and with his finger wrote on the ground, as though he heard them not.

8:7    他們還是不住的問他，耶穌直起腰來，對他們說，你們中間誰是沒有罪的，誰就可以先拿石頭打他。
So when they continued asking him, he lifted up himself, and said unto them, He that is without sin among you, let him first cast a stone at her.

8:8    於是又彎著腰用指頭在地上畫字。
And again he stooped down, and wrote on the ground.

8:9    他們聽見這話，就從老到少一個一個的都出去了。只剩下耶穌一人。還有那婦人仍然站在當中。
And they which heard it, being convicted by their own conscience, went out one by one, beginning at the eldest, even unto the last: and Jesus was left alone, and the woman standing in the midst.

8:10    耶穌就直起腰來，對他說，婦人，那些人在那裡呢。沒有人定你的罪嗎。
When Jesus had lifted up himself, and saw none but the woman, he said unto her, Woman, where are those thine accusers? hath no man condemned thee?

8:11    他說，主阿，沒有。耶穌說，我也不定你的罪。去吧。從此不要再犯罪了。
She said, No man, Lord. And Jesus said unto her, Neither do I condemn thee: go, and sin no more.

8:12    耶穌又對眾人說，我是世上的光。跟從我的，就不在黑暗裡走，必要得著生命的光。
Then spake Jesus again unto them, saying, I am the light of the world: he that followeth me shall not walk in darkness, but shall have the light of life.

8:13    法利賽人對他說，你是為自己作見證。你的見證不真。
The Pharisees therefore said unto him, Thou bearest record of thyself; thy record is not true.

8:14    耶穌說，我雖然為自己作見證，我的見證還是真的。因我知道我是從那裡來，往那裡去。你們卻不知道我是從那裡來，往那裡去。
Jesus answered and said unto them, Though I bear record of myself, yet my record is true: for I know whence I came, and whither I go; but ye cannot tell whence I come, and whither I go.

8:15    你們是以外貌（原文作憑肉身）判斷人。我卻不判斷人。
Ye judge after the flesh; I judge no man.

8:16    就是判斷人，我的判斷也是真的。因為不是我獨自在這裡，還有差我來的父與我同在。
And yet if I judge, my judgment is true: for I am not alone, but I and the Father that sent me.

8:17    你們的律法上也記著說，兩個人的見證是真的。
It is also written in your law, that the testimony of two men is true.

8:18    我是為自己作見證，還有差我來的父，也是為我作見證。
I am one that bear witness of myself, and the Father that sent me beareth witness of me.

8:19    他們就問他說，你的父在那裡。耶穌回答說，你們不認識我，也不認識我的父。若認識我，也就認識我的父。
Then said they unto him, Where is thy Father? Jesus answered, Ye neither know me, nor my Father: if ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also.

8:20    這些話是耶穌在殿裡的庫房，教訓人時所說的。也沒有人拿他。因為他的時候還沒有到。
These words spake Jesus in the treasury, as he taught in the temple: and no man laid hands on him; for his hour was not yet come.

8:21    耶穌又對他們說，我要去了，你們要找我，並且你們要死在罪中。我所去的地方，你們不能到。
Then said Jesus again unto them, I go my way, and ye shall seek me, and shall die in your sins: whither I go, ye cannot come.

8:22    猶太人說，他說我所去的地方，你們不能到，難道他要自盡嗎。
Then said the Jews, Will he kill himself? because he saith, Whither I go, ye cannot come.

8:23    耶穌對他們說，你們是從下頭來的，我是從上頭來的。你們是屬這世界的，我不是屬這世界的。
And he said unto them, Ye are from beneath; I am from above: ye are of this world; I am not of this world.

8:24    所以我對你們說，你們要死在罪中，你們若不信我是基督，必要死在罪中。
I said therefore unto you, that ye shall die in your sins: for if ye believe not that I am he, ye shall die in your sins.

8:25    他們就問他說，你是誰。耶穌對他們說，就是我從起初所告訴你們的。
Then said they unto him, Who art thou? And Jesus saith unto them, Even the same that I said unto you from the beginning.

8:26    我有許多事講論你們，判斷你們，但那差我來的是真的。我在他那裡所聽見的，我就傳給世人。
I have many things to say and to judge of you: but he that sent me is true; and I speak to the world those things which I have heard of him.

8:27    他們不明白耶穌是指著父說的。
They understood not that he spake to them of the Father.

8:28    所以耶穌說，你們舉起人子以後，必知道我是基督，並且知道我沒有一件事，是憑著自己作的。我說這話，乃是照著父所教訓我的。
Then said Jesus unto them, When ye have lifted up the Son of man, then shall ye know that I am he, and that I do nothing of myself; but as my Father hath taught me, I speak these things.

8:29    那差我來的，是與我同在。他沒有撇下我獨自在這裡，因為我常作他所喜歡的事。
And he that sent me is with me: the Father hath not left me alone; for I do always those things that please him.



8:30    耶穌說這話的時候，就有許多人信他。
As he spake these words, many believed on him.

8:31    耶穌對信他的猶太人說，你們若常常遵守我的道，就真是我的門徒。
Then said Jesus to those Jews which believed on him, If ye continue in my word, then are ye my disciples indeed;

8:32    你們必曉得真理，真理必叫你們得以自由。
And ye shall know the truth, and the truth shall make you free.

8:33    他們回答說，我們是亞伯拉罕的後裔，從來沒有作過誰的奴僕。你怎嗎說，你們必得以自由呢。
They answered him, We be Abraham's seed, and were never in bondage to any man: how sayest thou, Ye shall be made free?

8:34    耶穌回答說，我實實在在的告訴你們。所有犯罪的，就是罪的奴僕。
Jesus answered them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whosoever committeth sin is the servant of sin.

8:35    奴僕不能永遠住在家裡，兒子是永遠住在家裡。
And the servant abideth not in the house for ever: but the Son abideth ever.

8:36    所以天父的兒子若叫你們自由，你們就真自由了。
If the Son therefore shall make you free, ye shall be free indeed.

8:37    我知道你們是亞伯拉罕的子孫，你們卻想要殺我。因為你們心裡容不下我的道。
I know that ye are Abraham's seed; but ye seek to kill me, because my word hath no place in you.

8:38    我所說的，是在我父那裡看見的。你們所行的，是在你們的父那裡聽見的。
I speak that which I have seen with my Father: and ye do that which ye have seen with your father.

8:39    他們說，我們的父就是亞伯拉罕。耶穌說，你們若是亞伯拉罕的兒子，就必行亞伯拉罕所行的事。
They answered and said unto him, Abraham is our father. Jesus saith unto them, If ye were Abraham's children, ye would do the works of Abraham.

8:40    我將在神那裡所聽見的真理，告訴了你們，現在你們卻想要殺我。這不是亞伯拉罕所行的事。
But now ye seek to kill me, a man that hath told you the truth, which I have heard of God: this did not Abraham.

8:41    你們是行你們父所行的事。他們說，我們不是從淫亂生的。我們只有一位父就是神。
Ye do the deeds of your father. Then said they to him, We be not born of fornication; we have one Father, even God.

8:42    耶穌說，倘若神是你們的父，你們就必愛我。因為我本是出於神，也是從神而來，並不是由著自己來，乃是他差我來。
Jesus said unto them, If God were your Father, ye would love me: for I proceeded forth and came from God; neither came I of myself, but he sent me.

8:43    你們為什麼不明白我的話呢，無非是因你們不能聽我的道。
Why do ye not understand my speech? even because ye cannot hear my word.

8:44    你們是出於你們的父魔鬼，你們父的私慾，你們偏要行，他從起初是殺人的，不守真裡。因他心裡沒有真裡，他說謊是出於自己，因他本來是說謊的，也是說謊之人的父。
Ye are of your father the devil, and the lusts of your father ye will do. He was a murderer from the beginning, and abode not in the truth, because there is no truth in him. When he speaketh a lie, he speaketh of his own: for he is a liar, and the father of it.

8:45    我將真理告訴你們，你們就因此不信我。
And because I tell you the truth, ye believe me not.

8:46    你們中間誰能指證我有罪呢。我既然將真理告訴你們，為什麼不信我呢。
Which of you convinceth me of sin? And if I say the truth, why do ye not believe me?

8:47    出於神的，必聽神的話。你們不聽，因為你們不是出於神。
He that is of God heareth God's words: ye therefore hear them not, because ye are not of God.

8:48    猶太人回答說，我們說，你是撒瑪利亞人，並且是鬼附著的，這話豈不正對嗎。
Then answered the Jews, and said unto him, Say we not well that thou art a Samaritan, and hast a devil?

8:49    耶穌說，我不是鬼附著的。我尊敬我的父，你們倒輕慢我。
Jesus answered, I have not a devil; but I honour my Father, and ye do dishonour me.

8:50    我不求自己的榮耀。有一位為我求榮耀定是非的。
And I seek not mine own glory: there is one that seeketh and judgeth.

8:51    我實實在在的告訴你們，人若遵守我的道，就永遠不見死。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, If a man keep my saying, he shall never see death.

8:52    猶太人對他說，現在我們知道你是鬼附著的。亞伯拉罕死了，眾先知也死了。你還說，人若遵守我的道，就永遠不嘗死味。
Then said the Jews unto him, Now we know that thou hast a devil. Abraham is dead, and the prophets; and thou sayest, If a man keep my saying, he shall never taste of death.

8:53    難道你比我們的祖宗亞伯拉罕還大嗎。他死了，眾先知也死了。你將自己當作什麼人呢。
Art thou greater than our father Abraham, which is dead? and the prophets are dead: whom makest thou thyself?

8:54    耶穌回答說，我若榮耀自己，我的榮耀就算不得什麼。榮耀我的乃是我的父，就是你們所說是你們的神。
Jesus answered, If I honour myself, my honour is nothing: it is my Father that honoureth me; of whom ye say, that he is your God:

8:55    你們未曾認識他。我卻認識他。我若說不認識他，我就是說謊的，像你們一樣，但我認識他，也遵守他的道。
Yet ye have not known him; but I know him: and if I should say, I know him not, I shall be a liar like unto you: but I know him, and keep his saying.

8:56    你們的祖宗亞伯拉罕歡歡喜喜的仰望我的日子。既看見了，就快樂。
Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day: and he saw it, and was glad.

8:57    猶太人說，你還沒有五十歲，豈能見過亞伯拉罕呢。
Then said the Jews unto him, Thou art not yet fifty years old, and hast thou seen Abraham?

8:58    耶穌說，我實實在在的告訴你們，還沒有亞伯拉罕，就有了我。
Jesus said unto them, Verily, verily, I say unto you, Before Abraham was, I am.

8:59    於是他們拿石頭要打他。耶穌卻躲藏，從殿裡出去了。
Then took they up stones to cast at him: but Jesus hid himself, and went out of the temple, going through the midst of them, and so passed by.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


9:1    耶穌過去的時候，看見一個人生來是瞎眼的。
And as Jesus passed by, he saw a man which was blind from his birth.

9:2    門徒問耶穌說，拉比，這人生來是瞎眼的，是誰犯了罪，是這人呢，是他父母呢。
And his disciples asked him, saying, Master, who did sin, this man, or his parents, that he was born blind?

9:3    耶穌回答說，也不是這人犯了罪，也不是他父母犯了罪，是要在他身上顯出神的作為來。
Jesus answered, Neither hath this man sinned, nor his parents: but that the works of God should be made manifest in him.

9:4    趁著白日，我們必須作那差我來者的工。黑夜將到，就沒有人能作工了。
I must work the works of him that sent me, while it is day: the night cometh, when no man can work.

9:5    我在世上的時候，是世上的光。
As long as I am in the world, I am the light of the world.

9:6    耶穌說了這話，就吐唾沫在地上，用唾沫和泥抹在瞎子的眼睛上，
When he had thus spoken, he spat on the ground, and made clay of the spittle, and he anointed the eyes of the blind man with the clay,

9:7    對他說，你往西羅亞池子裡去洗，（西羅亞翻出來，就是奉差遣）他去一洗，回頭就看見了。
And said unto him, Go, wash in the pool of Siloam, (which is by interpretation, Sent.) He went his way therefore, and washed, and came seeing.

9:8    他的鄰舍，和那素常見他是討飯的，就說，這不是那從前坐著討飯的人嗎。
The neighbours therefore, and they which before had seen him that he was blind, said, Is not this he that sat and begged?

9:9    有人說，是他。又有人說，不是，卻是像他。他自己說，是我。
Some said, This is he: others said, He is like him: but he said, I am he.

9:10    他們對他說，你的眼睛是怎嗎開的呢。
Therefore said they unto him, How were thine eyes opened?

9:11    他回答說，有一個人名叫耶穌。他和泥抹我的眼睛，對我說，你往西羅亞池子去洗。我去一洗，就看見了。
He answered and said, A man that is called Jesus made clay, and anointed mine eyes, and said unto me, Go to the pool of Siloam, and wash: and I went and washed, and I received sight.

9:12    他們說，那個人在那裡。他說，我不知道。
Then said they unto him, Where is he? He said, I know not.

9:13    他們把從前瞎眼的人，帶到法利賽人那裡。
They brought to the Pharisees him that aforetime was blind.

9:14    耶穌和泥開他眼睛的日子是安息日。
And it was the sabbath day when Jesus made the clay, and opened his eyes.

9:15    法利賽人也問他是怎嗎得看見的。瞎子對他們說，他把泥抹在我的眼睛上，我去一洗，就看見了。
Then again the Pharisees also asked him how he had received his sight. He said unto them, He put clay upon mine eyes, and I washed, and do see.

9:16    法利賽人中有的說，這個人不是從神來的，因為他不守安息日。又有人說，一個罪人怎能行這樣的神蹟呢。他們就起了分爭。
Therefore said some of the Pharisees, This man is not of God, because he keepeth not the sabbath day. Others said, How can a man that is a sinner do such miracles? And there was a division among them.

9:17    他們又對瞎子說，他既然開了你的眼睛，你說他是怎樣的人呢。他說，是個先知。
They say unto the blind man again, What sayest thou of him, that he hath opened thine eyes? He said, He is a prophet.

9:18    猶太人不信他從前是瞎眼，後來能看見的，等到叫了他的父母來，
But the Jews did not believe concerning him, that he had been blind, and received his sight, until they called the parents of him that had received his sight.



9:19    問他們說，這是你們的兒子嗎。你們說他生來是瞎眼的，如今怎嗎能看見了呢。
And they asked them, saying, Is this your son, who ye say was born blind? how then doth he now see?

9:20    他父母回答說，他是我們的兒子，生來就瞎眼，這是我們知道的。
His parents answered them and said, We know that this is our son, and that he was born blind:

9:21    至於他如今怎嗎能看見，我們卻不知道。是誰開了他的眼睛，我們也不知道。他已經成了人，你們問他吧。他自己必能說。
But by what means he now seeth, we know not; or who hath opened his eyes, we know not: he is of age; ask him: he shall speak for himself.

9:22    他父母說這話，是怕猶太人，因為猶太人已經商議定了，若有認耶穌是基督的，要把他趕出會堂。
These words spake his parents, because they feared the Jews: for the Jews had agreed already, that if any man did confess that he was Christ, he should be put out of the synagogue.

9:23    因此他父母說，他已經成了人，你們問他吧。
Therefore said his parents, He is of age; ask him.

9:24    所以法利賽人第二次叫了那從前瞎眼的人來，對他說，你該將榮耀歸給神。我們知道這人是個罪人。
Then again called they the man that was blind, and said unto him, Give God the praise: we know that this man is a sinner.

9:25    他說，他是個罪人不是，我不知道。有一件事我知道，從前我是眼瞎的，如今能看見了。
He answered and said, Whether he be a sinner or no, I know not: one thing I know, that, whereas I was blind, now I see.

9:26    他們就問他說，他向你作什麼，是怎嗎開了你的眼睛呢。
Then said they to him again, What did he to thee? how opened he thine eyes?

9:27    他回答說，我方才告訴你們，你們不聽。為什麼又要聽呢。莫非你們也要作他的門徒嗎。
He answered them, I have told you already, and ye did not hear: wherefore would ye hear it again? will ye also be his disciples?

9:28    他們就罵他說，你是他的門徒。我們是摩西的門徒。
Then they reviled him, and said, Thou art his disciple; but we are Moses' disciples.

9:29    神對摩西說話，是我們知道的。只是這個人，我們不知道他從那裡來。
We know that God spake unto Moses: as for this fellow, we know not from whence he is.

9:30    那人回答說，他開了我的眼睛，你們竟不知道他從那裡來，這真是奇怪。
The man answered and said unto them, Why herein is a marvellous thing, that ye know not from whence he is, and yet he hath opened mine eyes.

9:31    我們知道神不聽罪人。惟有敬奉神旨意的，神才聽他。
Now we know that God heareth not sinners: but if any man be a worshipper of God, and doeth his will, him he heareth.

9:32    從創世以來，未曾聽見有人把生來是瞎子的眼睛開了。
Since the world began was it not heard that any man opened the eyes of one that was born blind.

9:33    這人若不是從神來的，什麼也不能作。
If this man were not of God, he could do nothing.

9:34    他們回答說，你全然生在罪孽中，還要教訓我們嗎。於是把他趕出去了。
They answered and said unto him, Thou wast altogether born in sins, and dost thou teach us? And they cast him out.

9:35    耶穌聽說他們把他趕出去。後來遇見他，就說，你信神的兒子嗎。
Jesus heard that they had cast him out; and when he had found him, he said unto him, Dost thou believe on the Son of God?

9:36    他回答說，主阿，誰是神的兒子，叫我信他呢。
He answered and said, Who is he, Lord, that I might believe on him?

9:37    耶穌說，你已經看見他，現在和你說話的就是他。
And Jesus said unto him, Thou hast both seen him, and it is he that talketh with thee.

9:38    他說，主阿，我信。就拜耶穌。
And he said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him.

9:39    耶穌說，我為審判到這世上來，叫不能看見的，可以看見。能看見的，反瞎了眼。
And Jesus said, For judgment I am come into this world, that they which see not might see; and that they which see might be made blind.

9:40    同他在那裡的法利賽人，聽見這話，就說，難道我們也瞎了眼嗎。
And some of the Pharisees which were with him heard these words, and said unto him, Are we blind also?

9:41    耶穌對他們說，你們若瞎了眼，就沒有罪了。但如今你們說，我們能看見，所以你們的罪還在。
Jesus said unto them, If ye were blind, ye should have no sin: but now ye say, We see; therefore your sin remaineth.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


10:1    我實實在在的告訴你們，人進羊圈，不從門進去，倒從別處爬進去，那人就是強盜。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that entereth not by the door into the sheepfold, but climbeth up some other way, the same is a thief and a robber.

10:2    從門進去的，才是羊的牧人。
But he that entereth in by the door is the shepherd of the sheep.

10:3    看門的就給他開門。羊也聽他的聲音。他按著名叫自己的羊，把羊領出來。
To him the porter openeth; and the sheep hear his voice: and he calleth his own sheep by name, and leadeth them out.

10:4    既放出自己的羊來，就在前頭走，羊也跟著他，因為認得他的聲音。
And when he putteth forth his own sheep, he goeth before them, and the sheep follow him: for they know his voice.

10:5    羊不跟著生人，因為不認得他的聲音。必要逃跑。
And a stranger will they not follow, but will flee from him: for they know not the voice of strangers.

10:6    耶穌將這比喻告訴他們。但他們不明白所說的是什麼意思。
This parable spake Jesus unto them: but they understood not what things they were which he spake unto them.

10:7    所以耶穌又對他們說，我實實在在的告訴你們，我就是羊的門，
Then said Jesus unto them again, Verily, verily, I say unto you, I am the door of the sheep.

10:8    凡在我以先來的，都是賊，是強盜。羊卻不聽他們。
All that ever came before me are thieves and robbers: but the sheep did not hear them.

10:9    我就是門。凡從我進來的，必然得救，並且出入得草吃。
I am the door: by me if any man enter in, he shall be saved, and shall go in and out, and find pasture.

10:10    盜賊來，無非要偷竊，殺害，毀壞。我來了，是要叫羊（或作人）得生命，並且得的更豐盛。
The thief cometh not, but for to steal, and to kill, and to destroy: I am come that they might have life, and that they might have it more abundantly.

10:11    我是好牧人，好牧人為羊舍命。
I am the good shepherd: the good shepherd giveth his life for the sheep.

10:12    若是僱工，不是牧人，羊也不是他自己的，他看見狼來，就撇下羊逃走。狼抓住羊，趕散了羊群。
But he that is an hireling, and not the shepherd, whose own the sheep are not, seeth the wolf coming, and leaveth the sheep, and fleeth: and the wolf catcheth them, and scattereth the sheep.

10:13    僱工逃走，因為他是僱工，並不顧念羊。
The hireling fleeth, because he is an hireling, and careth not for the sheep.

10:14    我是好牧人。我認識我的羊，我的羊也認識我。
I am the good shepherd, and know my sheep, and am known of mine.

10:15    正如父認識我，我也認識父一樣。並且我為羊舍命。
As the Father knoweth me, even so know I the Father: and I lay down my life for the sheep.

10:16    我另外有羊，不是這個圈裡的。我必須領他們來，他們也要聽我的聲音。並且要合成一群，歸一個牧人了。
And other sheep I have, which are not of this fold: them also I must bring, and they shall hear my voice; and there shall be one fold, and one shepherd.



10:17    我父愛我，因我將命捨去，好再取回來。
Therefore doth my Father love me, because I lay down my life, that I might take it again.

10:18    沒有人奪我的命去，是我自己舍的。我有權柄舍了，也有權柄取回來。這是我從父所受的命令。
No man taketh it from me, but I lay it down of myself. I have power to lay it down, and I have power to take it again. This commandment have I received of my Father.

10:19    猶太人為這些話，又起了分爭。
There was a division therefore again among the Jews for these sayings.

10:20    內中有好些人說，他是被鬼附著，而且瘋了。為什麼聽他呢。
And many of them said, He hath a devil, and is mad; why hear ye him?

10:21    又有人說，這不是鬼附之人所說的話。鬼豈能叫瞎子的眼睛開了呢。
Others said, These are not the words of him that hath a devil. Can a devil open the eyes of the blind?

10:22    在耶路撒冷有修殿節。是冬天的時候。
And it was at Jerusalem the feast of the dedication, and it was winter.

10:23    耶穌在殿裡所羅門的廊下行走。
And Jesus walked in the temple in Solomon's porch.

10:24    猶太人圍著他，說，你叫我們猶疑不定到幾時呢。你若是基督，就明明的告訴我們。
Then came the Jews round about him, and said unto him, How long dost thou make us to doubt? If thou be the Christ, tell us plainly.

10:25    耶穌回答說，我已經告訴你們，你們不信。我奉我父之名所行的事，可以為我作見證。
Jesus answered them, I told you, and ye believed not: the works that I do in my Father's name, they bear witness of me.

10:26    只是你們不信，因為你們不是我的羊。
But ye believe not, because ye are not of my sheep, as I said unto you.

10:27    我的羊聽我的聲音，我也認識他們，他們也跟著我。
My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me:

10:28    我又賜給他們永生。他們永不滅亡，誰也不能從我手裡把他們奪去。
And I give unto them eternal life; and they shall never perish, neither shall any man pluck them out of my hand.

10:29    我父把羊賜給我，他比萬有都大。誰也不能從我父手裡把他奪去。
My Father, which gave them me, is greater than all; and no man is able to pluck them out of my Father's hand.

10:30    我與父原為一。
I and my Father are one.

10:31    猶太人又拿起石頭要打他。
Then the Jews took up stones again to stone him.

10:32    耶穌對他們說，我從父顯出許多善事給你們看，你們是為那一件事拿石頭打我呢。
Jesus answered them, Many good works have I shewed you from my Father; for which of those works do ye stone me?

10:33    猶太人回答說，我們不是為善事拿石頭打你，是你說僭妄的話。又為你是個人，反將自己當作神。
The Jews answered him, saying, For a good work we stone thee not; but for blasphemy; and because that thou, being a man, makest thyself God.

10:34    耶穌說，你們的律法上豈不是寫著，我曾說你們是神嗎。
Jesus answered them, Is it not written in your law, I said, Ye are gods?

10:35    經上得話是不能廢的。若那些承受神道的人，尚且稱為神，
If he called them gods, unto whom the word of God came, and the scripture cannot be broken;

10:36    父所分別為聖，又差到世間來的，他自稱是神的兒子，你們還向他說，你說僭妄的話嗎。
Say ye of him, whom the Father hath sanctified, and sent into the world, Thou blasphemest; because I said, I am the Son of God?

10:37    我若不行我父的事，你們就不必信我。
If I do not the works of my Father, believe me not.

10:38    我若行了，你們縱然不信我，也當信這些事。叫你們又知道，又明白，父在我裡面，我也在父裡面。
But if I do, though ye believe not me, believe the works: that ye may know, and believe, that the Father is in me, and I in him.

10:39    他們又要拿他。他卻逃出他們的手走了。
Therefore they sought again to take him: but he escaped out of their hand,

10:40    耶穌又往約旦河外去，到了約翰起初施洗的地方，就住在那裡。
And went away again beyond Jordan into the place where John at first baptized; and there he abode.

10:41    有許多人來到他那裡。他們說約翰一件神蹟沒有行過。但約翰指著這人所說的一切話都是真的。
And many resorted unto him, and said, John did no miracle: but all things that John spake of this man were true.

10:42    在那裡信耶穌的人就多了。
And many believed on him there.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


11:1    有一個患病的人，名叫拉撒路，住在伯大尼，就是馬利亞和他姐姐馬大的村莊。
Now a certain man was sick, named Lazarus, of Bethany, the town of Mary and her sister Martha.

11:2    這馬利亞就是那用香膏抹主，又用頭髮擦他腳的。患病的拉撒路是他的兄弟。
(It was that Mary which anointed the Lord with ointment, and wiped his feet with her hair, whose brother Lazarus was sick.)

11:3    他姊妹兩個就打發人去見耶穌說，主阿，你所愛的人病了。
Therefore his sisters sent unto him, saying, Lord, behold, he whom thou lovest is sick.

11:4    耶穌聽見就說，這病不至於死，乃是為神的榮耀，叫神的兒子因此得榮耀。
When Jesus heard that, he said, This sickness is not unto death, but for the glory of God, that the Son of God might be glorified thereby.

11:5    耶穌素來愛馬大，和他妹子，並拉撒路。
Now Jesus loved Martha, and her sister, and Lazarus.

11:6    聽見拉撒路病了，就在所居之地，仍住了兩天。
When he had heard therefore that he was sick, he abode two days still in the same place where he was.

11:7    然後對門徒說，我們再往猶太去吧。
Then after that saith he to his disciples, Let us go into Judaea again.

11:8    門徒說，拉比，猶太人近來要拿石頭打你，你還往那裡去嗎。
His disciples say unto him, Master, the Jews of late sought to stone thee; and goest thou thither again?

11:9    耶穌回答說，白日不是有十二小時嗎。人在白日走路，就不至跌倒，因為看見這世上的光。
Jesus answered, Are there not twelve hours in the day? If any man walk in the day, he stumbleth not, because he seeth the light of this world.

11:10    若在黑夜走路，就必跌倒，因為他沒有光。
But if a man walk in the night, he stumbleth, because there is no light in him.

11:11    耶穌說了這話，隨後對他們說，我們的朋友拉撒路睡了，我去叫醒他。
These things said he: and after that he saith unto them, Our friend Lazarus sleepeth; but I go, that I may awake him out of sleep.

11:12    門徒說，主阿，他若睡了，就必好了。
Then said his disciples, Lord, if he sleep, he shall do well.

11:13    耶穌這話是指著他死說的。他們卻以為是說照常睡了。
Howbeit Jesus spake of his death: but they thought that he had spoken of taking of rest in sleep.

11:14    耶穌就明明的告訴他們說，拉撒路死了。
Then said Jesus unto them plainly, Lazarus is dead.

11:15    我沒有在那裡就歡喜，這是為你們的緣故，好叫你們相信。如今我們可以往他那裡去吧。
And I am glad for your sakes that I was not there, to the intent ye may believe; nevertheless let us go unto him.

11:16    多馬，又稱為低土馬，就對那同作門徒的說，我們也去和他同死吧。
Then said Thomas, which is called Didymus, unto his fellowdisciples, Let us also go, that we may die with him.

11:17    耶穌到了，就知道拉撒路在墳墓裡，已經四天了。
Then when Jesus came, he found that he had lain in the grave four days already.

11:18    伯大尼離耶路撒冷不遠，約有六里路。
Now Bethany was nigh unto Jerusalem, about fifteen furlongs off:

11:19    有些猶太人來看馬大和馬利亞，要為他們的兄弟安慰他們。
And many of the Jews came to Martha and Mary, to comfort them concerning their brother.

11:20    馬大聽見耶穌來了，就出去迎接他。馬利亞卻仍然坐在家裡。
Then Martha, as soon as she heard that Jesus was coming, went and met him: but Mary sat still in the house.

11:21    馬大對耶穌說，主阿，你若早在這裡，我兄弟必不死。
Then said Martha unto Jesus, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.

11:22    就是現在，我也知道，你無論向神求什麼，神也必賜給你。
But I know, that even now, whatsoever thou wilt ask of God, God will give it thee.

11:23    耶穌說，你兄弟必然復活。
Jesus saith unto her, Thy brother shall rise again.

11:24    馬大說，我知道在末世復活的時候，他必復活。
Martha saith unto him, I know that he shall rise again in the resurrection at the last day.

11:25    耶穌對他說，復活在我，生命也在我。信我的人，雖然死了，也必復活。
Jesus said unto her, I am the resurrection, and the life: he that believeth in me, though he were dead, yet shall he live:

11:26    凡活著信我的人，必永遠不死。你信這話嗎。
And whosoever liveth and believeth in me shall never die. Believest thou this?

11:27    馬大說，主阿，是的，我信你是基督，是神的兒子，就是那要臨到世界的。
She saith unto him, Yea, Lord: I believe that thou art the Christ, the Son of God, which should come into the world.

11:28    馬大說了這話，就回去暗暗的叫他妹子，馬利亞說，夫子來了，叫你。
And when she had so said, she went her way, and called Mary her sister secretly, saying, The Master is come, and calleth for thee.

11:29    馬利亞聽見了就急忙起來，到耶穌那裡去。
As soon as she heard that, she arose quickly, and came unto him.

11:30    那時，耶穌還沒有進村子，仍在馬大迎接他的地方。
Now Jesus was not yet come into the town, but was in that place where Martha met him.

11:31    那些同馬利亞在家裡安慰他的猶太人，見他急忙起來出去，就跟著他，以為他要往墳墓那裡胎哭。
The Jews then which were with her in the house, and comforted her, when they saw Mary, that she rose up hastily and went out, followed her, saying, She goeth unto the grave to weep there.

11:32    馬利亞到了耶穌那裡，看見他，就俯伏在他腳前，說，主阿，你若早在這裡，我兄弟必不死。
Then when Mary was come where Jesus was, and saw him, she fell down at his feet, saying unto him, Lord, if thou hadst been here, my brother had not died.

11:33    耶穌看見他哭，並看見與他同來的猶太人也哭，就心裡悲嘆，又甚憂愁。
When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews also weeping which came with her, he groaned in the spirit, and was troubled,

11:34    便說，你們把他安放在那裡。他們回答說，請主來看。
And said, Where have ye laid him? They said unto him, Lord, come and see.

11:35    耶穌哭了。
Jesus wept.

11:36    猶太人就說，你看他愛這人是何等懇切。
Then said the Jews, Behold how he loved him!

11:37    其中有人說，他既然開了瞎子的眼睛，豈不能叫這人不死嗎。
And some of them said, Could not this man, which opened the eyes of the blind, have caused that even this man should not have died?

11:38    耶穌又心裡悲嘆，來到墳墓前。那墳墓是個洞，有一塊石頭擋著。
Jesus therefore again groaning in himself cometh to the grave. It was a cave, and a stone lay upon it.

11:39    耶穌說，你們把石頭挪開。那死人的姐姐馬大對他說，主阿，他現在必是發臭了，因為他死了已經四天了。
Jesus said, Take ye away the stone. Martha, the sister of him that was dead, saith unto him, Lord, by this time he stinketh: for he hath been dead four days.

11:40    耶穌說，我不是對你說過，你若信，就必看見神的榮耀嗎。
Jesus saith unto her, Said I not unto thee, that, if thou wouldest believe, thou shouldest see the glory of God?

11:41    他們就把石頭挪開。耶穌舉目望天說，父阿，我感謝你，因為你已經聽我。
Then they took away the stone from the place where the dead was laid. And Jesus lifted up his eyes, and said, Father, I thank thee that thou hast heard me.

11:42    我也知道你常聽我，但我說這話，是為周圍站著的眾人，叫他們信是你差了我來。
And I knew that thou hearest me always: but because of the people which stand by I said it, that they may believe that thou hast sent me.

11:43    說了這話，就大聲呼叫說，拉撒路出來。
And when he thus had spoken, he cried with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth.

11:44    那死人就出來了，手腳裹著布，臉上包著手巾。耶穌對他們說，解開，叫他走。
And he that was dead came forth, bound hand and foot with graveclothes: and his face was bound about with a napkin. Jesus saith unto them, Loose him, and let him go.

11:45    那些來看馬利亞的猶太人，見了耶穌所作的事，就多有信他的。
Then many of the Jews which came to Mary, and had seen the things which Jesus did, believed on him.

11:46    但其中也有去見法利賽人的，將耶穌所作的事告訴他們。
But some of them went their ways to the Pharisees, and told them what things Jesus had done.

11:47    祭司長和法利賽人聚集公會，說，這人行好些神蹟，我們怎嗎辦呢。
Then gathered the chief priests and the Pharisees a council, and said, What do we? for this man doeth many miracles.

11:48    若這樣由著他，人人都要信他。羅馬人也要來奪我們的地土，和我們的百姓。
If we let him thus alone, all men will believe on him: and the Romans shall come and take away both our place and nation.

11:49    內中有一個人，名叫該亞法，本年作大祭司，對他們說，你們不知道什麼。
And one of them, named Caiaphas, being the high priest that same year, said unto them, Ye know nothing at all,

11:50    獨不想一個人替百姓死，免得通國滅亡，就是你們的益處。
Nor consider that it is expedient for us, that one man should die for the people, and that the whole nation perish not.

11:51    他這話不是出於自己，是因他本年作大祭司，所以預言耶穌將要替這一國死。
And this spake he not of himself: but being high priest that year, he prophesied that Jesus should die for that nation;

11:52    也不但替這一國死，並要將神四散的子民，都聚集歸一。
And not for that nation only, but that also he should gather together in one the children of God that were scattered abroad.

11:53    從那日起，他們就商議要殺耶穌。
Then from that day forth they took counsel together for to put him to death.

11:54    所以耶穌不再顯然行在猶太人中間，就離開那裡往靠近礦野的地方。到了一座城，名叫以法蓮，就在那裡和門徒同住。
Jesus therefore walked no more openly among the Jews; but went thence unto a country near to the wilderness, into a city called Ephraim, and there continued with his disciples.

11:55    猶太人的逾越節近了。有許多人從鄉下上耶路撒冷去，要在節前潔淨自己。
And the Jews' passover was nigh at hand: and many went out of the country up to Jerusalem before the passover, to purify themselves.

11:56    他們就尋梢耶穌，站在殿裡彼此說，你們的意思如何，他不來過節嗎。
Then sought they for Jesus, and spake among themselves, as they stood in the temple, What think ye, that he will not come to the feast?

11:57    那時，祭司長和法利賽人早已吩咐說，若有人知道耶穌在那裡，就要報明，好去拿他。
Now both the chief priests and the Pharisees had given a commandment, that, if any man knew where he were, he should shew it, that they might take him.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


12:1    逾越節前六日，耶穌來到伯大尼，就是他叫拉撒路從死裡復活之處。
Then Jesus six days before the passover came to Bethany, where Lazarus was, which had been dead, whom he raised from the dead.

12:2    有人在那裡給耶穌豫備筵席。馬大伺候，拉撒路也在那同耶穌坐席的人中。
There they made him a supper; and Martha served: but Lazarus was one of them that sat at the table with him.

12:3    馬利亞就拿著一斤極貴的真哪噠香膏，抹耶穌的腳，又用自己的頭髮去擦。屋裡就滿了膏的香氣。
Then took Mary a pound of ointment of spikenard, very costly, and anointed the feet of Jesus, and wiped his feet with her hair: and the house was filled with the odour of the ointment.

12:4    有一個門徒，就是那將要賣耶穌的加略人猶大，
Then saith one of his disciples, Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, which should betray him,

12:5    說，這香膏為什麼不賣三十兩銀子賙濟窮人呢。
Why was not this ointment sold for three hundred pence, and given to the poor?

12:6    他說這話，並不是掛念窮人，乃因他是個賊，又帶著錢曩，常取其中所存的。
This he said, not that he cared for the poor; but because he was a thief, and had the bag, and bare what was put therein.

12:7    耶穌說，由他吧，他是為我安葬之日存留的。
Then said Jesus, Let her alone: against the day of my burying hath she kept this.

12:8    因為常有窮人和你們同在。只是你們不常有我。
For the poor always ye have with you; but me ye have not always.

12:9    有許多猶太人知道耶穌在那裡，就來了，不但是為耶穌的緣故，也是要看他從死裡所復活的拉撒路。
Much people of the Jews therefore knew that he was there: and they came not for Jesus' sake only, but that they might see Lazarus also, whom he had raised from the dead.

12:10    但祭司長商議連拉撒路也要殺了。
But the chief priests consulted that they might put Lazarus also to death;

12:11    因有好些猶太人，為拉撒路的緣故，回去信了耶穌。
Because that by reason of him many of the Jews went away, and believed on Jesus.

12:12    第二天，有許多上來過節的人，聽見耶穌將到耶路撒冷，
On the next day much people that were come to the feast, when they heard that Jesus was coming to Jerusalem,

12:13    就拿著棕樹枝，出去迎接他，喊著說，和撒那，奉主名來的以色列王，是應當稱頌的。
Took branches of palm trees, and went forth to meet him, and cried, Hosanna: Blessed is the King of Israel that cometh in the name of the Lord.

12:14    耶穌得了一個驢駒，就騎上。如經上所記的說，
And Jesus, when he had found a young ass, sat thereon; as it is written,

12:15    錫安的民哪，（民原文作女子）不要懼怕，你的王騎著驢駒來了。
Fear not, daughter of Sion: behold, thy King cometh, sitting on an ass's colt.

12:16    這些事門徒起先不明白。等到耶穌得了榮耀以後，才想起這話是指著他寫的，並且眾人果然向他這樣行了。
These things understood not his disciples at the first: but when Jesus was glorified, then remembered they that these things were written of him, and that they had done these things unto him.

12:17    當耶穌呼喚拉撒路叫他從死復活出墳墓的時候，同耶穌在那裡的眾人，就作見證。
The people therefore that was with him when he called Lazarus out of his grave, and raised him from the dead, bare record.

12:18    眾人因聽見耶穌行了這神蹟，就去迎接他。
For this cause the people also met him, for that they heard that he had done this miracle.

12:19    法利賽人彼此說，看哪，你們是徒勞無益，世人都隨從他去了。
The Pharisees therefore said among themselves, Perceive ye how ye prevail nothing? behold, the world is gone after him.

12:20    那時，上來過節禮拜的人中，有幾個希臘人。
And there were certain Greeks among them that came up to worship at the feast:

12:21    他們來見加利利伯賽大的腓力，求他說，先生，我們願意見耶穌。
The same came therefore to Philip, which was of Bethsaida of Galilee, and desired him, saying, Sir, we would see Jesus.

12:22    腓力去告訴安得烈，安得烈同腓力去告訴耶穌。
Philip cometh and telleth Andrew: and again Andrew and Philip tell Jesus.

12:23    耶穌說，人子得榮耀的時候到了。
And Jesus answered them, saying, The hour is come, that the Son of man should be glorified.

12:24    我實實在在的告訴你們，一粒麥子不落在地裡死了，仍舊是一粒。若死了，就結出許多子粒來。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, Except a corn of wheat fall into the ground and die, it abideth alone: but if it die, it bringeth forth much fruit.

12:25    愛惜自己生命的，就失喪生命。在這世上恨惡自己生命的，就要保守生命到永生。
He that loveth his life shall lose it; and he that hateth his life in this world shall keep it unto life eternal.

12:26    若有人服事我，就當跟從我。我在那裡，服事我的人，也要在那裡。若有人服事我，我父必尊重他。
If any man serve me, let him follow me; and where I am, there shall also my servant be: if any man serve me, him will my Father honour.

12:27    我現在心裡憂愁，我說什麼才好呢。父阿，救我脫離這時候。但我原是為這時候來的。
Now is my soul troubled; and what shall I say? Father, save me from this hour: but for this cause came I unto this hour.

12:28    父阿，願你榮耀你的名。當時就有聲音從天上來說，我已經榮耀了我的名，還要再榮耀。
Father, glorify thy name. Then came there a voice from heaven, saying, I have both glorified it, and will glorify it again.



12:29    站在旁邊的眾人聽見，就說，打雷了。還有人說，有天使對他說話。
The people therefore, that stood by, and heard it, said that it thundered: others said, An angel spake to him.

12:30    耶穌說，這聲音不是為我，是為你們來的。
Jesus answered and said, This voice came not because of me, but for your sakes.

12:31    現在這世界受審判。這世界的王要被趕出去。
Now is the judgment of this world: now shall the prince of this world be cast out.

12:32    我若從地上被舉起來，就要吸引萬人來歸我。
And I, if I be lifted up from the earth, will draw all men unto me.

12:33    耶穌這話原是指著自己將要怎樣死說的。
This he said, signifying what death he should die.

12:34    眾人回答說，我們聽見律法上有話說，基督是永存的。你怎嗎說，人子必須被舉起來呢。這人子是誰呢。
The people answered him, We have heard out of the law that Christ abideth for ever: and how sayest thou, The Son of man must be lifted up? who is this Son of man?

12:35    耶穌對他們說，光在你們中間，還有不多的時候，應當趁著有光行走，免得黑暗臨到你們。那在黑暗裡行走的，不知道往何處去。
Then Jesus said unto them, Yet a little while is the light with you. Walk while ye have the light, lest darkness come upon you: for he that walketh in darkness knoweth not whither he goeth.

12:36    你們應當趁著有光，信從這光，使你們成為光明之子。
While ye have light, believe in the light, that ye may be the children of light. These things spake Jesus, and departed, and did hide himself from them.

12:37    耶穌說了這話，就離開他們，隱藏了。
But though he had done so many miracles before them, yet they believed not on him:

12:38    他雖然在他們面前行了許多神蹟，他們還是不信他。
That the saying of Esaias the prophet might be fulfilled, which he spake, Lord, who hath believed our report? and to whom hath the arm of the Lord been revealed?

12:39    這是要應驗先知以賽亞的話說，主阿，我們所傳的，有誰信呢。
Therefore they could not believe, because that Esaias said again,

12:40    他們所以不能信，因為以賽亞又說，主叫他們瞎了眼，硬了心，免得他們眼睛看見，心裡明白，迴轉過來，我就醫治他們。
He hath blinded their eyes, and hardened their heart; that they should not see with their eyes, nor understand with their heart, and be converted, and I should heal them.

12:41    以賽亞因為看見他的榮耀，就指著他說這話。
These things said Esaias, when he saw his glory, and spake of him.

12:42    雖然如此，官長中卻有好些信他的。只因法利賽人的緣故，就不承認，恐怕被趕出會堂。
Nevertheless among the chief rulers also many believed on him; but because of the Pharisees they did not confess him, lest they should be put out of the synagogue:

12:43    這是因他們愛人的榮耀，過於愛神的榮耀。
For they loved the praise of men more than the praise of God.

12:44    耶穌大聲說，信我的，不是信我，乃是信那差我來的。
Jesus cried and said, He that believeth on me, believeth not on me, but on him that sent me.

12:45    人看見我，就是看見那差我來的。
And he that seeth me seeth him that sent me.

12:46    我到世上來，乃是光，叫凡信我的，不住在黑暗裡。
I am come a light into the world, that whosoever believeth on me should not abide in darkness.

12:47    若有人聽見我的話不遵守，我不審判他。我來本不是要審判世界，乃是要拯救世界。
And if any man hear my words, and believe not, I judge him not: for I came not to judge the world, but to save the world.

12:48    棄絕我不領受我話的人，有審判他的。就是我所講的道，在末日要審判他。
He that rejecteth me, and receiveth not my words, hath one that judgeth him: the word that I have spoken, the same shall judge him in the last day.

12:49    因為我沒有憑著自己講。惟有差我來的父，已經給我命令，叫我說什麼，講什麼。
For I have not spoken of myself; but the Father which sent me, he gave me a commandment, what I should say, and what I should speak.

12:50    我也知道他的命令就是永生。故此我所講的話，正是照著父對我所說的。
And I know that his commandment is life everlasting: whatsoever I speak therefore, even as the Father said unto me, so I speak.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


13:1    逾越節以前，耶穌知道自己離世歸父的時候到了。他既愛世間屬自己的人，就愛他們到底。
Now before the feast of the passover, when Jesus knew that his hour was come that he should depart out of this world unto the Father, having loved his own which were in the world, he loved them unto the end.

13:2    吃晚飯的時候，（魔鬼已將賣耶穌的意思，放在西門的兒子加略人猶大心裡）。
And supper being ended, the devil having now put into the heart of Judas Iscariot, Simon's son, to betray him;

13:3    耶穌知道父已將萬有交在他手裡，且知道自己是從神出來的，又要歸到神那裡去，
Jesus knowing that the Father had given all things into his hands, and that he was come from God, and went to God;

13:4    就離席站起來脫了衣服，拿一條手巾束腰。
He riseth from supper, and laid aside his garments; and took a towel, and girded himself.

13:5    隨後把水倒在盆裡，就洗門徒的腳，並用自己所束的手巾擦乾。
After that he poureth water into a bason, and began to wash the disciples' feet, and to wipe them with the towel wherewith he was girded.

13:6    捱到西門彼得，彼得對他說，主阿，你洗我的腳嗎。
Then cometh he to Simon Peter: and Peter saith unto him, Lord, dost thou wash my feet?

13:7    耶穌回答說，我所作的，你如今不知道，後來必明白。
Jesus answered and said unto him, What I do thou knowest not now; but thou shalt know hereafter.

13:8    彼得說，你永不可洗我的腳。耶穌說，我若不洗你，你就與我無分了。
Peter saith unto him, Thou shalt never wash my feet. Jesus answered him, If I wash thee not, thou hast no part with me.

13:9    西門彼得說，主阿，不但我的腳，連手和頭也要洗。
Simon Peter saith unto him, Lord, not my feet only, but also my hands and my head.

13:10    耶穌說，凡洗過澡的人，只要把腳一洗，全身就乾淨了。你們是乾淨的，然而不都是乾淨的。
Jesus saith to him, He that is washed needeth not save to wash his feet, but is clean every whit: and ye are clean, but not all.

13:11    耶穌原知道要賣他的是誰，所以說，你們不都是乾淨的。
For he knew who should betray him; therefore said he, Ye are not all clean.

13:12    耶穌洗完了他們的腳，就穿上衣服，又坐下，對他們說，我向你們所作的，你們明白嗎。
So after he had washed their feet, and had taken his garments, and was set down again, he said unto them, Know ye what I have done to you?

13:13    你們稱呼我夫子，稱呼我主，你們說的不錯。我本來是。
Ye call me Master and Lord: and ye say well; for so I am.

13:14    我是你們的主，你們的夫子，尚且洗你們的腳，你們也當彼此洗腳。
If I then, your Lord and Master, have washed your feet; ye also ought to wash one another's feet.



13:15    我給你們作了榜樣，叫你們照著我向你們所作的去作。
For I have given you an example, that ye should do as I have done to you.

13:16    我實實在在的告訴你們，僕人不能大於主人。差人也不能大於差他的人。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord; neither he that is sent greater than he that sent him.

13:17    你們既知道這事，若是去行就有福了。
If ye know these things, happy are ye if ye do them.

13:18    我這話不是指著你們眾人說的。我知道我所揀選的是誰。現在要應驗經上的話，說，同我吃飯的人，用腳踢我。
I speak not of you all: I know whom I have chosen: but that the scripture may be fulfilled, He that eateth bread with me hath lifted up his heel against me.

13:19    如今事情還沒有成就，我要先告訴你們，叫你們到事情成就的時候，可以信我是基督
Now I tell you before it come, that, when it is come to pass, ye may believe that I am he.

13:20    我實實在在的告訴你們，有人接待我所差遣的，就是接待我。接待我，就是接待那差遣我的。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that receiveth whomsoever I send receiveth me; and he that receiveth me receiveth him that sent me.

13:21    耶穌說了這話，心裡憂愁，就明說，我實實在在的告訴你們，你們中間有一個人要賣我了。
When Jesus had thus said, he was troubled in spirit, and testified, and said, Verily, verily, I say unto you, that one of you shall betray me.

13:22    門徒彼此對看，猜不透所說的是誰。
Then the disciples looked one on another, doubting of whom he spake.

13:23    有一個門徒，是耶穌所愛的，側身挨近耶穌的懷裡。
Now there was leaning on Jesus' bosom one of his disciples, whom Jesus loved.

13:24    西門彼得點頭對他說，你告訴我們，主是指著誰說的。
Simon Peter therefore beckoned to him, that he should ask who it should be of whom he spake.

13:25    那門徒便就勢靠著耶穌的胸膛，問他說，主阿，是誰呢。
He then lying on Jesus' breast saith unto him, Lord, who is it?

13:26    耶穌回答說，我蘸一點餅給誰，就是誰。耶穌就蘸了一點餅，遞給加略人西門的兒子猶大。
Jesus answered, He it is, to whom I shall give a sop, when I have dipped it. And when he had dipped the sop, he gave it to Judas Iscariot, the son of Simon.

13:27    他吃了以後，撒但就入了他的心。耶穌對他說，你所作的快作吧。
And after the sop Satan entered into him. Then said Jesus unto him, That thou doest, do quickly.

13:28    同席的人，沒有一個知道是為什麼對他們說這話。
Now no man at the table knew for what intent he spake this unto him.

13:29    有人因猶大帶著錢曩，以為耶穌是對他說，你去買我們過節所應用的東西。或是叫他拿什麼賙濟窮人。
For some of them thought, because Judas had the bag, that Jesus had said unto him, Buy those things that we have need of against the feast; or, that he should give something to the poor.

13:30    猶大受了那點餅，立刻就出去。那時候是夜間了。
He then having received the sop went immediately out: and it was night.

13:31    他既出去，耶穌就說，如今人子得了榮耀，神在人子身上也得了榮耀。
Therefore, when he was gone out, Jesus said, Now is the Son of man glorified, and God is glorified in him.

13:32    神要因自己榮耀人子，並且要快快的榮耀他。
If God be glorified in him, God shall also glorify him in himself, and shall straightway glorify him.

13:33    小子們，我還有不多的時候，與你們同在。後來你們要找我，但我所去的地方，你們不能到。這話我曾對猶太人說過，如今也照樣對你們說。
Little children, yet a little while I am with you. Ye shall seek me: and as I said unto the Jews, Whither I go, ye cannot come; so now I say to you.

13:34    我賜給你們一條新命令，乃是叫你們彼此相愛。我怎樣愛你們，你們也要怎樣相愛。
A new commandment I give unto you, That ye love one another; as I have loved you, that ye also love one another.

13:35    你們若有彼此相愛的心，眾人因此就認出你們是我的門徒了。
By this shall all men know that ye are my disciples, if ye have love one to another.

13:36    西門彼得問耶穌說，主往那裡去。耶穌回答說，我所去的地方，你現在不能跟我去。後來卻要跟我去。
Simon Peter said unto him, Lord, whither goest thou? Jesus answered him, Whither I go, thou canst not follow me now; but thou shalt follow me afterwards.

13:37    彼得說，主阿，我為什麼現在不能跟你去。我願意為你捨命。
Peter said unto him, Lord, why cannot I follow thee now? I will lay down my life for thy sake.

13:38    耶穌說，你願意為我捨命嗎。我實實在在的告訴你，雞叫以先，你要三次不認我。
Jesus answered him, Wilt thou lay down thy life for my sake? Verily, verily, I say unto thee, The cock shall not crow, till thou hast denied me thrice.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


14:1    你們心裡不要憂愁。你們信神，也當信我。
Let not your heart be troubled: ye believe in God, believe also in me.

14:2    在我父的家裡，有許多住處。若是沒有，我就早已告訴你們了。我去原是為你們預備地方去。
In my Father's house are many mansions: if it were not so, I would have told you. I go to prepare a place for you.

14:3    我若去為你們預備了地方，就必再來接你們到我那裡去，我在那裡，叫你們也在那裡。
And if I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again, and receive you unto myself; that where I am, there ye may be also.

14:4    我往那裡去，你們知道。那條路，你們也知道。（有古卷作我往那裡去你們知道那條路）
And whither I go ye know, and the way ye know.

14:5    多馬對他說，主阿，我們不知道你往那裡去，怎嗎知道那條路呢。
Thomas saith unto him, Lord, we know not whither thou goest; and how can we know the way?

14:6    耶穌說，我就是道路，真理，生命。若不藉著我。沒有人能到父那裡去。
Jesus saith unto him, I am the way, the truth, and the life: no man cometh unto the Father, but by me.

14:7    你們若認識我，也就認識我的父。從今以後，你們認識他，並且已經看見他。
If ye had known me, ye should have known my Father also: and from henceforth ye know him, and have seen him.

14:8    腓力對他說，求主將父顯給我們看，我們就知足了。
Philip saith unto him, Lord, shew us the Father, and it sufficeth us.

14:9    耶穌對他說，腓力，我與你們同在這樣長久，你還不認識我嗎。人看見了我，就是看見了父。你怎嗎說，將父顯給我們看呢。
Jesus saith unto him, Have I been so long time with you, and yet hast thou not known me, Philip? he that hath seen me hath seen the Father; and how sayest thou then, Shew us the Father?

14:10    我在父裡面，父在我裡面，你不信嗎。我對你們所說的話，不是憑著自己說的，乃是住在我裡面的父作他自己的事。
Believest thou not that I am in the Father, and the Father in me? the words that I speak unto you I speak not of myself: but the Father that dwelleth in me, he doeth the works.

14:11    你們當信我，我在父裡面，父在我裡面。既或不信，也當因我所作的事信我。
Believe me that I am in the Father, and the Father in me: or else believe me for the very works' sake.

14:12    我實實在在的告訴你們，我所作的事，信我的人也要作。並且要作比這更大的事。因為我往父那裡去。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, He that believeth on me, the works that I do shall he do also; and greater works than these shall he do; because I go unto my Father.

14:13    你們奉我的名，無論求什麼，我必成就，叫父因子得榮耀。
And whatsoever ye shall ask in my name, that will I do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son.

14:14    你們若奉我的名求什麼，我必成就。
If ye shall ask any thing in my name, I will do it.

14:15    你們若愛我，就必遵守我的命令。
If ye love me, keep my commandments.

14:16    我要求父，父就另外賜給你們一位保惠師，（或作訓慰師下同）叫他永遠與你們同在。
And I will pray the Father, and he shall give you another Comforter, that he may abide with you for ever;

14:17    就是真理的聖靈，乃世人不能接受的。因為不見他，也不認識他。你們卻認識他。因他常與你們同在，也要在你們裡面。
Even the Spirit of truth; whom the world cannot receive, because it seeth him not, neither knoweth him: but ye know him; for he dwelleth with you, and shall be in you.

14:18    我不撇下你們為孤兒，我必到你們這裡來。
I will not leave you comfortless: I will come to you.

14:19    還有不多的時候，世人不再看見我。你們卻看見我。因為我活著，你們也活著。
Yet a little while, and the world seeth me no more; but ye see me: because I live, ye shall live also.

14:20    到那日，你們就知道我在父裡面，你們在我裡面，我也在你們裡面。
At that day ye shall know that I am in my Father, and ye in me, and I in you.

14:21    有了我的命令又遵守的，這人就是愛我的。愛我的必蒙我父愛他，我也要愛他，並且要向他顯現。
He that hath my commandments, and keepeth them, he it is that loveth me: and he that loveth me shall be loved of my Father, and I will love him, and will manifest myself to him.

14:22    猶大（不是加略人猶大）問耶穌說，主阿，為什麼要向我們顯現，不向世人顯現呢。
Judas saith unto him, not Iscariot, Lord, how is it that thou wilt manifest thyself unto us, and not unto the world?

14:23    耶穌回答說，人若愛我，就必遵守我的道。我父也必愛他，並且我們要到他那裡去，與他同住。
Jesus answered and said unto him, If a man love me, he will keep my words: and my Father will love him, and we will come unto him, and make our abode with him.

14:24    不愛我的人就不遵守我的道。你們所聽見的道不是我的，乃是差我來之父的道。
He that loveth me not keepeth not my sayings: and the word which ye hear is not mine, but the Father's which sent me.

14:25    我還與你們同住的時候，已將這些話對你們說了。
These things have I spoken unto you, being yet present with you.

14:26    但保惠師，就是父因我的名所要差來的聖靈，他要將一切的事，指教你們，並且要叫你們想起我對你們所說的一切話。
But the Comforter, which is the Holy Ghost, whom the Father will send in my name, he shall teach you all things, and bring all things to your remembrance, whatsoever I have said unto you.

14:27    我留下平安給你們，我將我的平安賜給你們。我所賜的，不像世人所賜的。你們心裡不要憂愁，也不要膽怯。
Peace I leave with you, my peace I give unto you: not as the world giveth, give I unto you. Let not your heart be troubled, neither let it be afraid.

14:28    你們聽見我對你們說了，我去還要到你們這裡來。你們若愛我，因我到父那裡去，就必喜樂，因為父是比我大的。
Ye have heard how I said unto you, I go away, and come again unto you. If ye loved me, ye would rejoice, because I said, I go unto the Father: for my Father is greater than I.

14:29    現在事情還沒有成就，我豫先告訴你們，叫你們到事情成就的時候，就可以信。
And now I have told you before it come to pass, that, when it is come to pass, ye might believe.

14:30    以後我不再和你們多說話，因為這世界的王將到。他在我裡面是毫無所有。
Hereafter I will not talk much with you: for the prince of this world cometh, and hath nothing in me.

14:31    但要叫世人知道我愛父，並且父怎樣吩咐我，我就怎樣行。起來我們走吧。
But that the world may know that I love the Father; and as the Father gave me commandment, even so I do. Arise, let us go hence.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


15:1    我是真葡萄樹，我父是栽培的人。
I am the true vine, and my Father is the husbandman.

15:2    凡屬我不結果子的枝子，他就剪去。凡結果子的，
Every branch in me that beareth not fruit he taketh away: and every branch that beareth fruit, he purgeth it, that it may bring forth more fruit.

15:3    現在你們因我講給你們的道，已經乾淨了。
Now ye are clean through the word which I have spoken unto you.

15:4    你們要常在我裡面，我也常在你們裡面。枝子若不常在葡萄樹上，自己就不能結果子。你們若不常在我裡面，也是這樣。
Abide in me, and I in you. As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself, except it abide in the vine; no more can ye, except ye abide in me.

15:5    我是葡萄樹，你們是枝子。常在我裡面的，我也常在他裡面，這人就多結果子。因為離了我，你們就不能作什麼。
I am the vine, ye are the branches: He that abideth in me, and I in him, the same bringeth forth much fruit: for without me ye can do nothing.

15:6    人若不常在我裡面，就像枝子丟在外面枯乾，人拾起來，扔在火裡燒了。
If a man abide not in me, he is cast forth as a branch, and is withered; and men gather them, and cast them into the fire, and they are burned.

15:7    你們若常在我裡面，我的話也常在你們裡面，凡你們所願意的，祈求就給你們成就。
If ye abide in me, and my words abide in you, ye shall ask what ye will, and it shall be done unto you.

15:8    你們多結果子，我父就因此得榮耀，你們也就是我的門徒了。
Herein is my Father glorified, that ye bear much fruit; so shall ye be my disciples.

15:9    我愛你們，正如父愛我一樣。你們要常在我的愛裡。
As the Father hath loved me, so have I loved you: continue ye in my love.

15:10    你們若遵守我的命令，就常在我的愛裡。正如我遵守了我父的命令，常在他的愛裡。
If ye keep my commandments, ye shall abide in my love; even as I have kept my Father's commandments, and abide in his love.

15:11    這些事我已經對你們說了，是要叫我的喜樂，存在你們心裡，並叫你們的喜樂可以滿足。
These things have I spoken unto you, that my joy might remain in you, and that your joy might be full.

15:12    你們要彼此相愛，像我愛你們一樣，這就是我的命令。
This is my commandment, That ye love one another, as I have loved you.

15:13    人為朋友捨命，人的愛心沒有比這個更大的。
Greater love hath no man than this, that a man lay down his life for his friends.

15:14    你們若遵行我所吩付的，就是我的朋友了。
Ye are my friends, if ye do whatsoever I command you.

15:15    以後我不再稱你們為僕人。因僕人不知道主人所作的事。我乃稱你們為朋友。因我從我父所聽見的。已經都告訴你們了。
Henceforth I call you not servants; for the servant knoweth not what his lord doeth: but I have called you friends; for all things that I have heard of my Father I have made known unto you.

15:16    不是你們揀選了我，是我揀選了你們，並且分派你們去結果子，叫你們的果子長存。使你們奉我的名，無論向父求什麼，他就賜給你們。
Ye have not chosen me, but I have chosen you, and ordained you, that ye should go and bring forth fruit, and that your fruit should remain: that whatsoever ye shall ask of the Father in my name, he may give it you.

15:17    我這樣吩咐你們，是要叫你們彼此相愛。
These things I command you, that ye love one another.

15:18    世人若恨你們，你們知道（或作該知道）恨你們以先，已經恨我了。
If the world hate you, ye know that it hated me before it hated you.

15:19    你們若屬世界，世界必愛屬自己的。只因你們不屬世界。乃是我從世界揀選了你們，所以世界就恨你們。
If ye were of the world, the world would love his own: but because ye are not of the world, but I have chosen you out of the world, therefore the world hateth you.

15:20    你們要記念我從前對你們所說的話，僕人不能大於主人。他們若逼迫了我，也要逼迫你們。若遵守了我的話，也要遵守你們的話。
Remember the word that I said unto you, The servant is not greater than his lord. If they have persecuted me, they will also persecute you; if they have kept my saying, they will keep yours also.

15:21    但他們因我的名，要向你們行這一切的事，因為他們不認識那差我來的。
But all these things will they do unto you for my name's sake, because they know not him that sent me.

15:22    我若沒有來教訓他們，他們就沒有罪。但如今他們的罪無可推諉了。
If I had not come and spoken unto them, they had not had sin: but now they have no cloak for their sin.

15:23    恨我的，也恨我的父。
He that hateth me hateth my Father also.

15:24    我若沒有在他們中間行過別人未曾行的事，他們就沒有罪。但如今連我與我的父，他們也看見也恨惡了。
If I had not done among them the works which none other man did, they had not had sin: but now have they both seen and hated both me and my Father.

15:25    這要應驗他們律法上所寫的話說，他們無故恨我。
But this cometh to pass, that the word might be fulfilled that is written in their law, They hated me without a cause.

15:26    但我要從父那裡差保惠師來，就是從父出來真裡的聖靈。他來了，就要為我作見證。
But when the Comforter is come, whom I will send unto you from the Father, even the Spirit of truth, which proceedeth from the Father, he shall testify of me:

15:27    你們也要作見證，因為你們從起頭就與我同在。
And ye also shall bear witness, because ye have been with me from the beginning.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


16:1    我已將這些事告訴你們，使你們不至於跌倒。
These things have I spoken unto you, that ye should not be offended.

16:2    人要把你們趕出會堂。並且時候將到，凡殺你們的，就以為是事奉神。
They shall put you out of the synagogues: yea, the time cometh, that whosoever killeth you will think that he doeth God service.

16:3    他們這樣行，是因未曾認識父，也未曾認識我。
And these things will they do unto you, because they have not known the Father, nor me.

16:4    我將這些事告訴你們，是叫你們到了時候，可以想起我對你們說過了。我起先沒有將這事告訴你們，因為我與你們同在。
But these things have I told you, that when the time shall come, ye may remember that I told you of them. And these things I said not unto you at the beginning, because I was with you.

16:5    現今我往差我來的父那裡去。你們中間並沒有人問我，你往那裡去。
But now I go my way to him that sent me; and none of you asketh me, Whither goest thou?

16:6    只因我將這事情告訴你們，你們就滿心憂愁。
But because I have said these things unto you, sorrow hath filled your heart.

16:7    然而我將真情告訴你們。我去是與你們有益的。我若不去，保惠師就不到你們這裡來。我若去，就差他來。
Nevertheless I tell you the truth; It is expedient for you that I go away: for if I go not away, the Comforter will not come unto you; but if I depart, I will send him unto you.

16:8    他既來了，就要叫世人為罪，為義，為審判，自己責備自己。
And when he is come, he will reprove the world of sin, and of righteousness, and of judgment:

16:9    為罪，是因他們不信我。
Of sin, because they believe not on me;

16:10    為義，是因我往父那裡去，你們就不再見我。
Of righteousness, because I go to my Father, and ye see me no more;

16:11    為審判，是因這世界的王受了審判。
Of judgment, because the prince of this world is judged.

16:12    我還有好些事要告訴你們，但你們現在擔當不了（或作不能領會）。
I have yet many things to say unto you, but ye cannot bear them now.

16:13    只等真理的聖靈來了，他要引導你們明白（原文作進入）一切的真理。因為他不是憑自己說的，乃是把他所聽見的都說出來。並要把將來的事告訴你們。
Howbeit when he, the Spirit of truth, is come, he will guide you into all truth: for he shall not speak of himself; but whatsoever he shall hear, that shall he speak: and he will shew you things to come.

16:14    他要榮耀我。因為他要將受於我的，告訴你們。
He shall glorify me: for he shall receive of mine, and shall shew it unto you.

16:15    凡父所有的，都是我的，所以我說，他要將受於我的，告訴你們。
All things that the Father hath are mine: therefore said I, that he shall take of mine, and shall shew it unto you.

16:16    等不多時，你們就不得見我。再等不多時，你們還要見我。
A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me, because I go to the Father.

16:17    有幾個門徒就彼此說，他對我們說，等不多時，你們就不得見我。再等不多時，你們還要見我。又說，因我往父那裡去。這是什麼意思呢。
Then said some of his disciples among themselves, What is this that he saith unto us, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me: and, Because I go to the Father?

16:18    門徒彼此說，他說等不多時，到底是什麼意思呢。我們不明白他所說的話。
They said therefore, What is this that he saith, A little while? we cannot tell what he saith.

16:19    耶穌看出他們要問他，就說，我說等不多時，你們就不得見我，再等不多時，你們還要見我。你們為這話彼此相問嗎。
Now Jesus knew that they were desirous to ask him, and said unto them, Do ye enquire among yourselves of that I said, A little while, and ye shall not see me: and again, a little while, and ye shall see me?

16:20    我實實在在的告訴你們，你們將要痛哭，哀號，世人倒要喜樂。你們將要憂愁，然而你們的憂愁，要變為喜樂。
Verily, verily, I say unto you, That ye shall weep and lament, but the world shall rejoice: and ye shall be sorrowful, but your sorrow shall be turned into joy.

16:21    婦人生產的時候，就憂愁，因為他的時候到了。既生了孩子，就不再記念那苦楚，因為歡喜世上生了一個人。
A woman when she is in travail hath sorrow, because her hour is come: but as soon as she is delivered of the child, she remembereth no more the anguish, for joy that a man is born into the world.

16:22    你們現在也是憂愁。但我要再見你們，你們的心就喜樂了。這喜樂，也沒有人能奪去。
And ye now therefore have sorrow: but I will see you again, and your heart shall rejoice, and your joy no man taketh from you.

16:23    到那日，你們什麼也就不問我了。我實實在在的告訴你們，你們若向父求什麼，他必因我的名，賜給你們。
And in that day ye shall ask me nothing. Verily, verily, I say unto you, Whatsoever ye shall ask the Father in my name, he will give it you.

16:24    向來你們沒有奉我的名求什麼，如今你們求就必得著，叫你們的喜樂可以滿足。
Hitherto have ye asked nothing in my name: ask, and ye shall receive, that your joy may be full.

16:25    這些事，我是用比喻對你們說的。時候將到，我不再用比喻對你們說，乃要將父明明的告訴你們。
These things have I spoken unto you in proverbs: but the time cometh, when I shall no more speak unto you in proverbs, but I shall shew you plainly of the Father.

16:26    到那日，你們要奉我的名祈求。我並不對你們說，我要為你們求父。
At that day ye shall ask in my name: and I say not unto you, that I will pray the Father for you:

16:27    父自己愛你們，因為你們已經愛我，又信我是從父出來的。
For the Father himself loveth you, because ye have loved me, and have believed that I came out from God.



16:28    我從父出來，到了世界。我又離開世界，往父那裡去。
I came forth from the Father, and am come into the world: again, I leave the world, and go to the Father.

16:29    門徒說，如今你是明說，並不用比喻了。
His disciples said unto him, Lo, now speakest thou plainly, and speakest no proverb.

16:30    現在我們曉得你凡事都知道，也不用人問你。因此我們信你是從神出來的。
Now are we sure that thou knowest all things, and needest not that any man should ask thee: by this we believe that thou camest forth from God.

16:31    耶穌說，現在你們信嗎。
Jesus answered them, Do ye now believe?

16:32    看哪，時候將到，且是已經到了，你們要分散，各歸自己的地方去，留下我獨自一人。其實我不是獨自一人，因為有父與我同在。
Behold, the hour cometh, yea, is now come, that ye shall be scattered, every man to his own, and shall leave me alone: and yet I am not alone, because the Father is with me.

16:33    我將這事告訴你們，是叫你們在我裡面有平安。在世上你們有苦難。但你們可以放心，我已經勝了世界。
These things I have spoken unto you, that in me ye might have peace. In the world ye shall have tribulation: but be of good cheer; I have overcome the world.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


17:1    耶穌說了這話，就舉目望天說，父阿，時候到了。願你榮耀你的兒子，使兒子也榮耀你。
These words spake Jesus, and lifted up his eyes to heaven, and said, Father, the hour is come; glorify thy Son, that thy Son also may glorify thee:

17:2    正如你曾賜給他權柄，管理凡有血氣的，叫他將永生賜給你所賜給他的人。
As thou hast given him power over all flesh, that he should give eternal life to as many as thou hast given him.

17:3    認識你獨一的真神，並且認識你所差來的耶穌基督，這就是永生。
And this is life eternal, that they might know thee the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom thou hast sent.

17:4    我在地上已經榮耀你，你所託付我的事，我已成全了。
I have glorified thee on the earth: I have finished the work which thou gavest me to do.

17:5    父阿，現在求你使我同你享榮耀，就是未有世界以先，我同你所有的榮耀。
And now, O Father, glorify thou me with thine own self with the glory which I had with thee before the world was.

17:6    你從世上賜給我的人，我已將你的名顯明與他們。他們本是你的，你將他們賜給我，他們也遵守了你的道。
I have manifested thy name unto the men which thou gavest me out of the world: thine they were, and thou gavest them me; and they have kept thy word.

17:7    如今他們知道，凡你所賜給我的，都是從你那裡來的。
Now they have known that all things whatsoever thou hast given me are of thee.

17:8    因為你所賜給我的道，我已經賜給他們。他們也領受了，又確實知道，我是從你出來的，並且信你差了我來。
For I have given unto them the words which thou gavest me; and they have received them, and have known surely that I came out from thee, and they have believed that thou didst send me.

17:9    我為他們祈求。不為世人祈求，卻為你所賜給我的人祈求，因他們本是你的。
I pray for them: I pray not for the world, but for them which thou hast given me; for they are thine.

17:10    凡是我的都是你的，你的也是我的。並且我因他們得了榮耀。
And all mine are thine, and thine are mine; and I am glorified in them.

17:11    從今以後，我不在世上，他們卻在世上，我往你那裡去。聖父阿，求你因你所賜給我的名保守他們，叫他們合而為一，像我們一樣。
And now I am no more in the world, but these are in the world, and I come to thee. Holy Father, keep through thine own name those whom thou hast given me, that they may be one, as we are.

17:12    我與他們同在的時候，因你所賜給我的名，保守了他們，我也護衛了他們，其中除了那滅亡之子，沒有一個滅亡的。好叫經上的話得應驗。
While I was with them in the world, I kept them in thy name: those that thou gavest me I have kept, and none of them is lost, but the son of perdition; that the scripture might be fulfilled.

17:13    現在我往你們那裡去。我還在世上說這話，是叫他們心裡充滿我的喜樂。
And now come I to thee; and these things I speak in the world, that they might have my joy fulfilled in themselves.

17:14    我已將你的道賜給他們。世界又恨他們，因為他們不屬世界，正如我不屬世界一樣。
I have given them thy word; and the world hath hated them, because they are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

17:15    我不求你叫他們離開世界，只求你保守他們脫離
I pray not that thou shouldest take them out of the world, but that thou shouldest keep them from the evil.

17:16    他們不屬世界，正如我不屬世界一樣。
They are not of the world, even as I am not of the world.

17:17    求你用真理使他們成聖。你的道就是真理。
Sanctify them through thy truth: thy word is truth.

17:18    你怎樣差我到世上，我也照樣差他們到世上。
As thou hast sent me into the world, even so have I also sent them into the world.

17:19    我為他們的緣故，自己分別為聖，叫他們也因真理成聖。
And for their sakes I sanctify myself, that they also might be sanctified through the truth.

17:20    我不但為這些人祈求，也為那些因他們的話信我的人祈求。
Neither pray I for these alone, but for them also which shall believe on me through their word;

17:21    使他們都合而為一。正如你父在我裡面，我在你裡面，使他們也在我們裡面。叫世人可以信你差了我來。
That they all may be one; as thou, Father, art in me, and I in thee, that they also may be one in us: that the world may believe that thou hast sent me.

17:22    你賜給我的榮耀，我已經賜給他們，使他們合而為一，像我們合而為一。
And the glory which thou gavest me I have given them; that they may be one, even as we are one:

17:23    我在他們裡面，你在我裡面，使他們完完全全的合而為一。叫世人知道你差了我來，也知道你愛他們如同愛我一樣。
I in them, and thou in me, that they may be made perfect in one; and that the world may know that thou hast sent me, and hast loved them, as thou hast loved me.

17:24    父阿，我在那裡，願你所賜給我的人也同我在那裡，叫他們看見你所賜給我的榮耀。因為創立世界以前，你已經愛我了。
Father, I will that they also, whom thou hast given me, be with me where I am; that they may behold my glory, which thou hast given me: for thou lovedst me before the foundation of the world.

17:25    公義的父阿，世人未曾認識你，我卻認識你。這些人也知道你差了我來。
O righteous Father, the world hath not known thee: but I have known thee, and these have known that thou hast sent me.

17:26    我已將你的名指示他們，還要指示他們，使你所愛我的愛在他們裡面，我也在他們裡面。
And I have declared unto them thy name, and will declare it: that the love wherewith thou hast loved me may be in them, and I in them.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


18:1    耶穌說了這話，就同門徒出去，過了汲淪溪，在那裡有一個園子，他和門徒進去了。
When Jesus had spoken these words, he went forth with his disciples over the brook Cedron, where was a garden, into the which he entered, and his disciples.

18:2    賣耶穌的猶大也知道那地方。因為耶穌和門徒屢次上那裡去聚集。
And Judas also, which betrayed him, knew the place: for Jesus ofttimes resorted thither with his disciples.

18:3    猶大領了一隊兵，和祭司長並法利賽人的差役，拿著燈籠，火把，兵器，就來到園裡。
Judas then, having received a band of men and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, cometh thither with lanterns and torches and weapons.

18:4    耶穌知道將要臨到自己的一切事，就出來，對他們說，你們找誰。
Jesus therefore, knowing all things that should come upon him, went forth, and said unto them, Whom seek ye?

18:5    他們回答說，找拿撒勒人耶穌。耶穌說，我就是。賣他的猶大也同他們站在那裡。
They answered him, Jesus of Nazareth. Jesus saith unto them, I am he. And Judas also, which betrayed him, stood with them.

18:6    耶穌一說我就是，他們就退後倒在地上。
As soon then as he had said unto them, I am he, they went backward, and fell to the ground.

18:7    他又問他們說，你們找誰。他們說，找拿撒勒人耶穌。
Then asked he them again, Whom seek ye? And they said, Jesus of Nazareth.

18:8    耶穌說，我已經告訴你們，我就是。你們若找我，就讓這些人去吧。
Jesus answered, I have told you that I am he: if therefore ye seek me, let these go their way:

18:9    這要應驗耶穌從前的話，說，你所賜給我的人，我沒有失落一個。
That the saying might be fulfilled, which he spake, Of them which thou gavest me have I lost none.

18:10    西門彼得帶著一把刀，就拔出來，將大祭司的僕人砍了一刀，削掉他的右耳。那僕人名叫馬勒古。
Then Simon Peter having a sword drew it, and smote the high priest's servant, and cut off his right ear. The servant's name was Malchus.

18:11    耶穌就對彼得說，收刀入鞘吧。我父所給我的那杯，我豈可不喝呢。
Then said Jesus unto Peter, Put up thy sword into the sheath: the cup which my Father hath given me, shall I not drink it?

18:12    那隊兵和千夫長並猶太人的差役，就拿住耶穌，把他捆綁了。
Then the band and the captain and officers of the Jews took Jesus, and bound him,

18:13    先帶到亞那面前。因為亞那是本年作大祭司該亞法的岳父。
And led him away to Annas first; for he was father in law to Caiaphas, which was the high priest that same year.

18:14    這該亞法，就是從前向猶太人發議論說，一個人替百姓死是有益的那位。
Now Caiaphas was he, which gave counsel to the Jews, that it was expedient that one man should die for the people.

18:15    西門彼得跟著耶穌，還有一個門徒跟著。那門徒是大祭司所認識的。他就同耶穌進了大祭司的院子。
And Simon Peter followed Jesus, and so did another disciple: that disciple was known unto the high priest, and went in with Jesus into the palace of the high priest.

18:16    彼得卻站在門外。大祭司所認識的那門徒出來，和看門使女說了一聲，就領彼得進去。
But Peter stood at the door without. Then went out that other disciple, which was known unto the high priest, and spake unto her that kept the door, and brought in Peter.

18:17    那看門的使女對彼得說，你不也是這人的門徒嗎。他說，我不是。
Then saith the damsel that kept the door unto Peter, Art not thou also one of this man's disciples? He saith, I am not.

18:18    僕人和差役，因為天冷，就生了炭火，站在那裡烤火。彼得也同他們站著烤火。
And the servants and officers stood there, who had made a fire of coals; for it was cold: and they warmed themselves: and Peter stood with them, and warmed himself.

18:19    大祭司就以耶穌的門徒和他的教訓盤問他。
The high priest then asked Jesus of his disciples, and of his doctrine.

18:20    耶穌回答說，我從來是明明的對世人說話。我常在會堂和殿裡，就是猶太人聚集的地方，教訓人。我在暗地裡，並沒有說什麼。
Jesus answered him, I spake openly to the world; I ever taught in the synagogue, and in the temple, whither the Jews always resort; and in secret have I said nothing.

18:21    你為什麼問我呢。可以問那聽見的人，我對他們說的是什麼。我所說的，他們都知道。
Why askest thou me? ask them which heard me, what I have said unto them: behold, they know what I said.

18:22    耶穌說了這話，旁邊站著的一個差役，用手掌打他說，你這樣回答大祭司嗎。
And when he had thus spoken, one of the officers which stood by struck Jesus with the palm of his hand, saying, Answerest thou the high priest so?

18:23    耶穌說，我若說的不是，你可以指證那不是。我若說的是，你為什麼打我呢。
Jesus answered him, If I have spoken evil, bear witness of the evil: but if well, why smitest thou me?

18:24    亞那就把耶穌解到大祭司該亞法那裡，仍是捆著解去的。
Now Annas had sent him bound unto Caiaphas the high priest.

18:25    西門彼得正站著烤火，有人對他說，你不也是他的門徒嗎。彼得不承認，說，我不是。
And Simon Peter stood and warmed himself. They said therefore unto him, Art not thou also one of his disciples? He denied it, and said, I am not.

18:26    有大祭司的一個僕人，是彼得削掉耳朵那人的親屬，說，我不是看見你同他在園子裡嗎。
One of the servants of the high priest, being his kinsman whose ear Peter cut off, saith, Did not I see thee in the garden with him?

18:27    彼得又不承認。立時雞就叫了。
Peter then denied again: and immediately the cock crew.

18:28    眾人將耶穌從該亞法那裡往衙門內解去。那時天還早。他們自己卻不進衙門，恐怕染了汙穢，不能吃逾越節的筵席
Then led they Jesus from Caiaphas unto the hall of judgment: and it was early; and they themselves went not into the judgment hall, lest they should be defiled; but that they might eat the passover.

18:29    彼拉多就出來，到他們那裡，說，你們告這人是為什麼事呢。
Pilate then went out unto them, and said, What accusation bring ye against this man?

18:30    他們回答說，這人若不是作惡的，我們就不把他交給你。
They answered and said unto him, If he were not a malefactor, we would not have delivered him up unto thee.

18:31    彼拉多說，你們帶他去，按著你們的律法審問他吧。猶太人說，我們沒有殺人的權柄。
Then said Pilate unto them, Take ye him, and judge him according to your law. The Jews therefore said unto him, It is not lawful for us to put any man to death:

18:32    這要應驗耶穌所說，自己將要怎樣死的話了。
That the saying of Jesus might be fulfilled, which he spake, signifying what death he should die.

18:33    彼拉多又進了衙門，叫耶穌來，對他說，你是猶太人的王嗎。
Then Pilate entered into the judgment hall again, and called Jesus, and said unto him, Art thou the King of the Jews?

18:34    耶穌回答說，這話是你自己說的，還是別人論我對你說的呢。
Jesus answered him, Sayest thou this thing of thyself, or did others tell it thee of me?

18:35    彼拉多說，我豈是猶太人呢。你本國的人和祭司長，把你交給我。你作了什麼事呢。
Pilate answered, Am I a Jew? Thine own nation and the chief priests have delivered thee unto me: what hast thou done?

18:36    耶穌回答說，我的國不屬這世界。我的國若屬這世界，我的臣僕必要爭戰，使我不至於被交給猶太人。只是我的國不屬這世界。
Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world: if my kingdom were of this world, then would my servants fight, that I should not be delivered to the Jews: but now is my kingdom not from hence.

18:37    彼拉多就對他說，這樣，你是王嗎。耶穌回答說，你說我是王。我為此而生，也為此來到世間，特為給真理作見證。凡屬真理的人，就聽我的話。
Pilate therefore said unto him, Art thou a king then? Jesus answered, Thou sayest that I am a king. To this end was I born, and for this cause came I into the world, that I should bear witness unto the truth. Every one that is of the truth heareth my voice.

18:38    彼拉多說，真理是什麼呢。說了這話，又出來到猶太人那裡，對他們說，我查不出他有什麼罪來。
Pilate saith unto him, What is truth? And when he had said this, he went out again unto the Jews, and saith unto them, I find in him no fault at all.

18:39    但你們有個規矩，在逾越節要我給你們釋放一個人，你們要我給你們釋放猶太人的王嗎。
But ye have a custom, that I should release unto you one at the passover: will ye therefore that I release unto you the King of the Jews?

18:40    他們又喊著說，不要這人，要巴拉巴。這巴拉巴是個強盜。
Then cried they all again, saying, Not this man, but Barabbas. Now Barabbas was a robber.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


19:1    當下彼拉多將耶穌鞭打了。
Then Pilate therefore took Jesus, and scourged him.

19:2    兵丁用荊棘編作冠冕，戴在他頭上，給他穿上紫袍。
And the soldiers platted a crown of thorns, and put it on his head, and they put on him a purple robe,

19:3    又挨近他說，恭喜猶太人的王阿。他們就用手掌打他。
And said, Hail, King of the Jews! and they smote him with their hands.

19:4    彼拉多又出來對眾人說，我帶他出來見你們，叫你們知道我查不出他有什麼罪來。
Pilate therefore went forth again, and saith unto them, Behold, I bring him forth to you, that ye may know that I find no fault in him.

19:5    耶穌出來，戴著荊棘冠冕，穿著紫袍。彼拉多對他們說，你們看這個人。
Then came Jesus forth, wearing the crown of thorns, and the purple robe. And Pilate saith unto them, Behold the man!

19:6    祭司長和差役看見他，就喊著說，釘他十字架，釘他十字架。彼拉多說，你們自己把他釘十字架吧。我查不出他有什麼罪來。
When the chief priests therefore and officers saw him, they cried out, saying, Crucify him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Take ye him, and crucify him: for I find no fault in him.

19:7    猶太人回答說，我們有律法，按那律法，他是該死的，因他以自己為神的兒子。
The Jews answered him, We have a law, and by our law he ought to die, because he made himself the Son of God.

19:8    彼拉多聽見這話，越發害怕。
When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he was the more afraid;

19:9    又進衙門，對耶穌說，你是那裡來的。耶穌卻不回答。
And went again into the judgment hall, and saith unto Jesus, Whence art thou? But Jesus gave him no answer.

19:10    彼拉多說，你不對我說話嗎。你豈不知我有權柄釋放你，也有權柄把你釘十字架嗎。
Then saith Pilate unto him, Speakest thou not unto me? knowest thou not that I have power to crucify thee, and have power to release thee?

19:11    耶穌回答說，若不是從上頭賜給你的，你就毫無權柄辨我。所以把我交給你的那人，罪更重了。
Jesus answered, Thou couldest have no power at all against me, except it were given thee from above: therefore he that delivered me unto thee hath the greater sin.

19:12    從此彼拉多想要釋放耶穌。無奈猶太人喊著說，你若釋放這個人，就不是凱撒的忠臣。（原文作朋友）凡以自己為王的，就是背叛凱撒了。
And from thenceforth Pilate sought to release him: but the Jews cried out, saying, If thou let this man go, thou art not Caesar's friend: whosoever maketh himself a king speaketh against Caesar.

19:13    彼拉多聽見這話，就帶耶穌出來，到了一個地方，名叫鋪華石處，希伯來話叫厄巴大，就在那裡坐堂。
When Pilate therefore heard that saying, he brought Jesus forth, and sat down in the judgment seat in a place that is called the Pavement, but in the Hebrew, Gabbatha.

19:14    那日是逾越節的日子，約有午正。彼拉多對猶太人說，看哪，這是你們的王。
And it was the preparation of the passover, and about the sixth hour: and he saith unto the Jews, Behold your King!

19:15    他們喊著說，除掉他，除掉他，釘他在十字架上。彼拉多說，我可以把你們的王釘十字架嗎。祭司長回答說，除了凱撒，我們沒有王。
But they cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate saith unto them, Shall I crucify your King? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar.

19:16    於是彼拉多將耶穌交給他們去釘十字架。
Then delivered he him therefore unto them to be crucified. And they took Jesus, and led him away.

19:17    他們就把耶穌帶了去。耶穌揹著自己的十字架出來，到了一個地方，名叫髑髏地，希伯來話叫各各他。
And he bearing his cross went forth into a place called the place of a skull, which is called in the Hebrew Golgotha:

19:18    他們就在那裡釘他在十字架上，還有兩個人和他一同釘著，一邊一個，耶穌在中間。
Where they crucified him, and two other with him, on either side one, and Jesus in the midst.

19:19    彼拉多又用牌子寫了一個名號，安在十字架上。寫的是猶太人的王，拿撒勒人耶穌。
And Pilate wrote a title, and put it on the cross. And the writing was, JESUS OF NAZARETH THE KING OF THE JEWS.

19:20    有許多猶太人念這名號。因為耶穌被釘十字架的地方，與城相近，並且是用希伯來，羅馬，希臘，三樣文字寫的。
This title then read many of the Jews: for the place where Jesus was crucified was nigh to the city: and it was written in Hebrew, and Greek, and Latin.

19:21    猶太人的祭司長，就對彼拉多說，不要寫猶太人的王。要寫他自己說我是猶太人的王。
Then said the chief priests of the Jews to Pilate, Write not, The King of the Jews; but that he said, I am King of the Jews.

19:22    彼拉多說，我所寫的，我已經寫上了。
Pilate answered, What I have written I have written.

19:23    兵丁既然將耶穌釘在十字架上，就拿他的衣服分為四分，每兵一分。又拿他的裡衣。這件裡衣，原是沒有縫兒，是上下一片織成的。
Then the soldiers, when they had crucified Jesus, took his garments, and made four parts, to every soldier a part; and also his coat: now the coat was without seam, woven from the top throughout.

19:24    他們就彼此說，我們不要撕開，只要拈鬮，看誰得著。這要應驗經上的話說，他們分了我的外衣，為我的裡衣拈鬮。兵丁果然作了這事。
They said therefore among themselves, Let us not rend it, but cast lots for it, whose it shall be: that the scripture might be fulfilled, which saith, They parted my raiment among them, and for my vesture they did cast lots. These things therefore the soldiers did.

19:25    站在耶穌十字架旁邊的，有他母親，與他母親的姊妹，並革羅吧的妻子馬利亞，和抹大拉的馬利亞。
Now there stood by the cross of Jesus his mother, and his mother's sister, Mary the wife of Cleophas, and Mary Magdalene.

19:26    耶穌見母親和他所愛的那個門徒站在旁邊，就對他說，母親，（原文作婦人）看你的兒子。
When Jesus therefore saw his mother, and the disciple standing by, whom he loved, he saith unto his mother, Woman, behold thy son!

19:27    又對那門徒說，看你的母親。從此那門徒就接他到自己家裡去了。
Then saith he to the disciple, Behold thy mother! And from that hour that disciple took her unto his own home.

19:28    這事以後，耶穌知道各樣的事已經成了，為要使經上的話應驗，就說，我渴了。
After this, Jesus knowing that all things were now accomplished, that the scripture might be fulfilled, saith, I thirst.

19:29    有一個器皿盛滿了醋，放在那裡。他們就拿海絨蘸滿了醋，綁在牛膝草上，送到他口。
Now there was set a vessel full of vinegar: and they filled a spunge with vinegar, and put it upon hyssop, and put it to his mouth.

19:30    耶穌嘗（原文作受）了那醋，就說，成了。便低下頭，將靈魂交付神了。
When Jesus therefore had received the vinegar, he said, It is finished: and he bowed his head, and gave up the ghost.

19:31    猶太人因這日是豫備日，又因那安息日是個大日，就求彼拉多叫人打斷他們的腿，把他們拿去，免得屍首當安息日留在十字架上。
The Jews therefore, because it was the preparation, that the bodies should not remain upon the cross on the sabbath day, (for that sabbath day was an high day,) besought Pilate that their legs might be broken, and that they might be taken away.

19:32    於是兵丁來，把頭一個的腿，並與耶穌同釘第二個人的腿，都打斷了。
Then came the soldiers, and brake the legs of the first, and of the other which was crucified with him.

19:33    只是來到耶穌那裡，見他已經死了，就不打斷他的腿。
But when they came to Jesus, and saw that he was dead already, they brake not his legs:

19:34    惟有一個兵拿槍扎他的肋旁，隨既有血和水流出來。
But one of the soldiers with a spear pierced his side, and forthwith came there out blood and water.

19:35    看見這事的那人就作見證，他的見證也是真的，並且他知道自己所說的是真的，叫你們也可以信。
And he that saw it bare record, and his record is true: and he knoweth that he saith true, that ye might believe.

19:36    這些事成了，為要應驗經上的話說，他的骨頭，一根也不可折斷。
For these things were done, that the scripture should be fulfilled, A bone of him shall not be broken.

19:37    經上又有一句說，他們要仰望自己所扎的人。
And again another scripture saith, They shall look on him whom they pierced.

19:38    這些事以後，有亞利馬太人約瑟，是耶穌的門徒，只因怕猶太人，就暗暗的作門徒，他來求彼拉多，要把耶穌的身體領去。彼拉多允准，他就把耶穌的身體領去了。
And after this Joseph of Arimathaea, being a disciple of Jesus, but secretly for fear of the Jews, besought Pilate that he might take away the body of Jesus: and Pilate gave him leave. He came therefore, and took the body of Jesus.

19:39    又有尼哥底母，就是先前夜裡去見耶穌的，帶著沒藥，和沈香，約有一百斤前來。
And there came also Nicodemus, which at the first came to Jesus by night, and brought a mixture of myrrh and aloes, about an hundred pound weight.

19:40    他們就照猶太人殯葬的規矩，把耶穌的身體，用細麻布加上香料裹好了。
Then took they the body of Jesus, and wound it in linen clothes with the spices, as the manner of the Jews is to bury.

19:41    在耶穌釘十字架的地方，有一個園子。園子裡有一座新墳墓，是從來沒有葬過人的。
Now in the place where he was crucified there was a garden; and in the garden a new sepulchre, wherein was never man yet laid.

19:42    只因是猶太人的豫備日，又因那墳墓近，他們就把耶穌安放在那裡。
There laid they Jesus therefore because of the Jews' preparation day; for the sepulchre was nigh at hand.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　　


20:1    七日的第一日清早，天還黑的時候，抹大拉的馬利亞來到墳墓那裡，看見石頭從墳墓挪開了。
The first day of the week cometh Mary Magdalene early, when it was yet dark, unto the sepulchre, and seeth the stone taken away from the sepulchre.

20:2    就跑來見西門彼得，和耶穌所愛的那個門徒，對他們說，有人把主從墳墓裡挪了去，我們不知道放在那裡。
Then she runneth, and cometh to Simon Peter, and to the other disciple, whom Jesus loved, and saith unto them, They have taken away the LORD out of the sepulchre, and we know not where they have laid him.

20:3    彼得和那門徒就出來，往墳墓那裡去。
Peter therefore went forth, and that other disciple, and came to the sepulchre.

20:4    兩個人同跑，那門徒比彼得跑的更快，先到了墳墓。
So they ran both together: and the other disciple did outrun Peter, and came first to the sepulchre.

20:5    低頭往裡看，就見細麻布還放在那裡。只是沒有進去。
And he stooping down, and looking in, saw the linen clothes lying; yet went he not in.



20:6    西門彼得隨後也到了，進墳墓裡去，就看見細麻布還放在那裡。
Then cometh Simon Peter following him, and went into the sepulchre, and seeth the linen clothes lie,

20:7    又看見耶穌的裹頭巾，沒有和細麻布放在一處，是另一處卷著。
And the napkin, that was about his head, not lying with the linen clothes, but wrapped together in a place by itself.

20:8    先到墳墓的那門徒也進去，看見就信了。
Then went in also that other disciple, which came first to the sepulchre, and he saw, and believed.

20:9    因為他們還不明白聖經的意思，就是耶穌必要從死裡復活。
For as yet they knew not the scripture, that he must rise again from the dead.

20:10    於是兩個門徒回自己的住處去了。
Then the disciples went away again unto their own home.

20:11    馬利亞卻站在墳墓外面哭。哭的時候，低頭往墳墓裡看，
But Mary stood without at the sepulchre weeping: and as she wept, she stooped down, and looked into the sepulchre,

20:12    就見兩個天使，穿著白衣，在安放耶穌身體的地方坐著，一個在頭，一個在腳。
And seeth two angels in white sitting, the one at the head, and the other at the feet, where the body of Jesus had lain.

20:13    天使對他說，婦人，你為什麼哭。他說，因為有人把我主挪了去，我不知道放在那裡。
And they say unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? She saith unto them, Because they have taken away my LORD, and I know not where they have laid him.

20:14    說了這話，就轉過身來，看見耶穌站在那裡，卻不知道是耶穌。
And when she had thus said, she turned herself back, and saw Jesus standing, and knew not that it was Jesus.

20:15    耶穌問他說，婦人，為什麼哭，你找誰呢。馬利亞以為是看園的，就對他說，先生，若是你把他移了去，請告訴我，你把他放在那裡，我便去取他。
Jesus saith unto her, Woman, why weepest thou? whom seekest thou? She, supposing him to be the gardener, saith unto him, Sir, if thou have borne him hence, tell me where thou hast laid him, and I will take him away.

20:16    耶穌說，馬利亞。馬利亞就轉過來，用希伯來話對他說，拉波尼。（拉波尼就是夫子的意思
Jesus saith unto her, Mary. She turned herself, and saith unto him, Rabboni; which is to say, Master.

20:17    耶穌說，不要摸我。因為我還沒有升上去見我的父。你往我弟兄那裡去，告訴他們說，我要升上去，見我的父，也是你們的父。見我的神，也是你們的神。
Jesus saith unto her, Touch me not; for I am not yet ascended to my Father: but go to my brethren, and say unto them, I ascend unto my Father, and your Father; and to my God, and your God.



20:18    抹大拉的馬利亞就去告訴門徒說，我已經看見了主。他又將主對他說的這話告訴他們。
Mary Magdalene came and told the disciples that she had seen the LORD, and that he had spoken these things unto her.

20:19    那日，（就是七日的頭一日）晚上，門徒所在的地方，因怕猶太人，門都關了。耶穌來站在當中，對他們說，願你們平安。
Then the same day at evening, being the first day of the week, when the doors were shut where the disciples were assembled for fear of the Jews, came Jesus and stood in the midst, and saith unto them, Peace be unto you.

20:20    說了這話，就把手和肋旁，指給他們看。門徒看見主，就喜樂了。
And when he had so said, he shewed unto them his hands and his side. Then were the disciples glad, when they saw the LORD.

20:21    耶穌又對他們說，願你們平安。父怎樣差遣了我，我也照樣差遣你們。
Then said Jesus to them again, Peace be unto you: as my Father hath sent me, even so send I you.

20:22    說了這話，就向他們吹一口氣，說，你們受聖靈。
And when he had said this, he breathed on them, and saith unto them, Receive ye the Holy Ghost:

20:23    你們赦免誰的罪，誰的罪就赦免了。你們留下誰的罪，誰的罪就留下了。
Whose soever sins ye remit, they are remitted unto them; and whose soever sins ye retain, they are retained.

20:24    那十二個門徒中，有稱為抵土馬的多馬。耶穌來的時候，他沒有和他們同在。
But Thomas, one of the twelve, called Didymus, was not with them when Jesus came.

20:25    那些門徒對他說，我們已經看見主了。多馬卻說，我非看見他手上的釘痕，用指頭探入那釘痕，又用手探入他的肋旁，我總不信。
The other disciples therefore said unto him, We have seen the LORD. But he said unto them, Except I shall see in his hands the print of the nails, and put my finger into the print of the nails, and thrust my hand into his side, I will not believe.

20:26    過了八日，門徒又在屋裡，多馬也和他們同在，門都關了。耶穌來站在當中說，願你們平安。
And after eight days again his disciples were within, and Thomas with them: then came Jesus, the doors being shut, and stood in the midst, and said, Peace be unto you.

20:27    就對多馬說，伸過你的指頭來，摸（摸原文作看）我的手。伸出你的手來，探入我的肋旁。不要疑惑，總要信。
Then saith he to Thomas, Reach hither thy finger, and behold my hands; and reach hither thy hand, and thrust it into my side: and be not faithless, but believing.

20:28    多馬說，我的主，我的神。
And Thomas answered and said unto him, My LORD and my God.

20:29    耶穌對他說，你因看見了我才信。那沒有看見就信的，有福了。
Jesus saith unto him, Thomas, because thou hast seen me, thou hast believed: blessed are they that have not seen, and yet have believed.

20:30    耶穌在門徒面前，另外行了許多神蹟，沒有記在這書上。
And many other signs truly did Jesus in the presence of his disciples, which are not written in this book:

20:31    但記這些事，要叫你們信耶穌是基督，是神的兒子。並且叫你們信了他，就可以因他的名得生命。
But these are written, that ye might believe that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of God; and that believing ye might have life through his name.




新約 -- 約翰福音(John) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


21:1    這些事以後，耶穌在提比哩亞海邊，又向門徒顯現。他怎樣顯現記在下面。
After these things Jesus shewed himself again to the disciples at the sea of Tiberias; and on this wise shewed he himself.

21:2    有西門彼得，和稱為抵土馬的多馬，並加利利的迦拿人拿但業，還有西庇太的兩個兒子，又有兩個門徒，都在一處。
There were together Simon Peter, and Thomas called Didymus, and Nathanael of Cana in Galilee, and the sons of Zebedee, and two other of his disciples.

21:3    西門彼得對他們說，我打魚去。他們說，我們也和你同去。他們就出去，上了船，那一夜並沒有打著什麼。
Simon Peter saith unto them, I go a fishing. They say unto him, We also go with thee. They went forth, and entered into a ship immediately; and that night they caught nothing.

21:4    天將亮的時候，耶穌站在岸上。門徒卻不知道是耶穌。
But when the morning was now come, Jesus stood on the shore: but the disciples knew not that it was Jesus.

21:5    耶穌就對他們說，小子，你們有吃的沒有。他們回答說，沒有。
Then Jesus saith unto them, Children, have ye any meat? They answered him, No.

21:6    耶穌說，你們把網撒在船的右邊，就必得著。他們便撒下網去，竟拉不上來了，因為魚甚多。
And he said unto them, Cast the net on the right side of the ship, and ye shall find. They cast therefore, and now they were not able to draw it for the multitude of fishes.

21:7    耶穌所愛的那門徒對彼得說，是主。那時西門彼得赤著身子，一聽見是主，就束上一件外衣，跳在海里。
Therefore that disciple whom Jesus loved saith unto Peter, It is the Lord. Now when Simon Peter heard that it was the Lord, he girt his fisher's coat unto him, (for he was naked,) and did cast himself into the sea.

21:8    其餘的門徒（離岸不遠，約有二百肘，（古時以肘為尺，一肘約有今時尺半）就在小船把那網魚拉過來。
And the other disciples came in a little ship; (for they were not far from land, but as it were two hundred cubits,) dragging the net with fishes.

21:9    他們上了岸，就看見那裡有炭火，上面有魚，又有餅。
As soon then as they were come to land, they saw a fire of coals there, and fish laid thereon, and bread.

21:10    耶穌對他們說，把剛才打的魚，拿幾條來。
Jesus saith unto them, Bring of the fish which ye have now caught.

21:11    西門彼得就去，（或作上船）把網拉到岸上，那網滿了大魚，共一百五十三條。魚雖這樣多，網卻沒有破。
Simon Peter went up, and drew the net to land full of great fishes, an hundred and fifty and three: and for all there were so many, yet was not the net broken.

21:12    耶穌說，你們來吃早飯。門徒中沒有一個敢問他，你是誰，因為知道是主。
Jesus saith unto them, Come and dine. And none of the disciples durst ask him, Who art thou? knowing that it was the Lord.

21:13    耶穌就來拿餅和魚給他們。
Jesus then cometh, and taketh bread, and giveth them, and fish likewise.

21:14    耶穌從死裡復活以後，向門徒顯現，這是第三次。
This is now the third time that Jesus shewed himself to his disciples, after that he was risen from the dead.

21:15    他們吃完了早飯，耶穌對西門彼得說，約翰的兒子西門，（約翰馬太十六章十七節稱約拿）你愛我比這些更深嗎。彼得說，主阿，是的。你知道我愛你。耶穌對他說，你餵養我的小羊。
So when they had dined, Jesus saith to Simon Peter, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me more than these? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my lambs.

21:16    耶穌第二次又對他說，約翰的兒子西門，你愛我嗎。彼得說，主阿，是的。你知道我愛你。耶穌說，你牧養我的羊。
He saith to him again the second time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? He saith unto him, Yea, Lord; thou knowest that I love thee. He saith unto him, Feed my sheep.

21:17    第三次對他說，約翰的兒子西門，你愛我嗎。彼得因為耶穌第三次對他說，你愛我嗎，就憂愁，對耶穌說，主阿，你是無所不知的，你知道我愛你。耶穌說，你餵養我的羊。
He saith unto him the third time, Simon, son of Jonas, lovest thou me? Peter was grieved because he said unto him the third time, Lovest thou me? And he said unto him, Lord, thou knowest all things; thou knowest that I love thee. Jesus saith unto him, Feed my sheep.

21:18    我實實在在的告訴你，你年少的時候，自己束上帶子，隨意往來，但年老的時候，你要伸手來，別人要把你束上，帶你到不願意去的地方。
Verily, verily, I say unto thee, When thou wast young, thou girdedst thyself, and walkedst whither thou wouldest: but when thou shalt be old, thou shalt stretch forth thy hands, and another shall gird thee, and carry thee whither thou wouldest not.

21:19    耶穌說這話，是指著彼得要怎樣死榮耀神。說了這話，就對他說，你跟從我吧。
This spake he, signifying by what death he should glorify God. And when he had spoken this, he saith unto him, Follow me.

21:20    彼得轉過來，看見耶穌所愛的那門徒跟著，就是在晚飯的時候，靠著耶穌胸膛，說，主阿，賣你的是誰的那門徒。
Then Peter, turning about, seeth the disciple whom Jesus loved following; which also leaned on his breast at supper, and said, Lord, which is he that betrayeth thee?

21:21    彼得看見他，就問耶穌說，主阿，這人將來如何。
Peter seeing him saith to Jesus, Lord, and what shall this man do?

21:22    耶穌對他說，我若要他等到我來的時候，與你何干。你跟從我吧。
Jesus saith unto him, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee? follow thou me.

21:23    於是這話傳在弟兄中間，說那門徒不死。其實耶穌不是說他不死。乃是說我若要他等到我來的時候，與你何干。
Then went this saying abroad among the brethren, that that disciple should not die: yet Jesus said not unto him, He shall not die; but, If I will that he tarry till I come, what is that to thee?

21:24    為這些事作見證，並且記載這些事的，就是這門徒。我們也知道他的見證是真的。
This is the disciple which testifieth of these things, and wrote these things: and we know that his testimony is true.

21:25    耶穌所行的事，還有許多，若是一一的都寫出來，我想所寫的書，就是世界也容不下去了。
And there are also many other things which Jesus did, the which, if they should be written every one, I suppose that even the world itself could not contain the books that should be written. Amen.


