
新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　


1:1    提阿非羅阿，我已經作了前書，論到耶穌開頭一切所行所教訓的，
The former treatise have I made, O Theophilus, of all that Jesus began both to do and teach,

1:2    直到他藉著聖靈吩咐所揀選的使徒，以後被接上升的日子為止。
Until the day in which he was taken up, after that he through the Holy Ghost had given commandments unto the apostles whom he had chosen:

1:3    他受害之後，用許多的憑據，將自己活活的顯給使徒看，四十天之久向他們顯現，講說神國的事。
To whom also he shewed himself alive after his passion by many infallible proofs, being seen of them forty days, and speaking of the things pertaining to the kingdom of God:

1:4    耶穌和他們聚集的時候，囑咐他們說，不要離開耶路撒冷，要等候父所應許的，就是你們聽我說過的。
And, being assembled together with them, commanded them that they should not depart from Jerusalem, but wait for the promise of the Father, which, saith he, ye have heard of me.

1:5    約翰是用水施洗。但不多幾日，你們要受聖靈的洗。
For John truly baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost not many days hence.

1:6    他們聚集的時候，問耶穌說，主阿，你復興以色列國，就在這時候嗎。
When they therefore were come together, they asked of him, saying, Lord, wilt thou at this time restore again the kingdom to Israel?

1:7    耶穌對他們說，父憑著自己的權柄，所定的時候日期，不是你們可以知道的。
And he said unto them, It is not for you to know the times or the seasons, which the Father hath put in his own power.

1:8    但聖靈降臨在你們身上，你們就必得著能力。並要在耶路撒冷，猶太全地，和撒瑪利亞，直到地極，作我的見證。
But ye shall receive power, after that the Holy Ghost is come upon you: and ye shall be witnesses unto me both in Jerusalem, and in all Judaea, and in Samaria, and unto the uttermost part of the earth.

1:9    說了這話，他們正看的時候，他就被取上升，有一朵雲彩把他接去，便看不見他了。
And when he had spoken these things, while they beheld, he was taken up; and a cloud received him out of their sight.

1:10    當他往上去，他們定睛望天的時候，忽然有兩個人，身穿白衣，站在旁邊，說，
And while they looked stedfastly toward heaven as he went up, behold, two men stood by them in white apparel;

1:11    加利利人哪，你們為什麼站著望天呢。這離開你們被接昇天的耶穌，你們見他怎樣往天上去，他還要怎樣來。
Which also said, Ye men of Galilee, why stand ye gazing up into heaven? this same Jesus, which is taken up from you into heaven, shall so come in like manner as ye have seen him go into heaven.

1:12    有一座山名叫橄欖山，離耶路撒冷不遠，約有安息日可走的路程。當下門徒從那裡回耶路撒冷去。
Then returned they unto Jerusalem from the mount called Olivet, which is from Jerusalem a sabbath day's journey.

1:13    進了城，就上了所住的一間樓房。在那裡有彼得，約翰，雅各，安得烈，腓力，多馬，巴多羅買，馬太，亞勒腓的兒子雅各，奮銳黨的西門，和雅各的兒子（或作兄弟）猶大。
And when they were come in, they went up into an upper room, where abode both Peter, and James, and John, and Andrew, Philip, and Thomas, Bartholomew, and Matthew, James the son of Alphaeus, and Simon Zelotes, and Judas the brother of James.

1:14    這些人，同著幾個婦人，和耶穌的母親馬利亞，並耶穌的弟兄，都同心合意的恆切禱告。
These all continued with one accord in prayer and supplication, with the women, and Mary the mother of Jesus, and with his brethren.

1:15    那時，有許多人聚會，約有一百二十名，彼得就在弟兄中間站起來，說，
And in those days Peter stood up in the midst of the disciples, and said, (the number of names together were about an hundred and twenty,)

1:16    弟兄們，聖靈藉大衛的口，在聖經上，預言領人捉拿耶穌的猶大。這話是必須應驗的。
Men and brethren, this scripture must needs have been fulfilled, which the Holy Ghost by the mouth of David spake before concerning Judas, which was guide to them that took Jesus.

1:17    他本來列在我們數中，並且在使徒的職任上得了一分。
For he was numbered with us, and had obtained part of this ministry.

1:18    這人用他作惡的工價，買了一塊田，以後身子仆倒，肚腹崩裂，腸子都流出來。
Now this man purchased a field with the reward of iniquity; and falling headlong, he burst asunder in the midst, and all his bowels gushed out.

1:19    住在耶路撒冷的眾人都知道這事，所以按著他們那裡的話，給那塊田起名叫亞革大馬，就是血田的意思。
And it was known unto all the dwellers at Jerusalem; insomuch as that field is called in their proper tongue, Aceldama, that is to say, The field of blood.

1:20    因為詩篇上寫著說，願他的住處，變為荒場，無人在內居住。又說，願別人得他的職分。
For it is written in the book of Psalms, Let his habitation be desolate, and let no man dwell therein: and his bishoprick let another take.

1:21    所以主耶穌在我們中間始終出入的時候，
Wherefore of these men which have companied with us all the time that the Lord Jesus went in and out among us,

1:22    就是從約翰施洗起，直到主離開我們被接上升的日子為止，必須從那常與我們作伴的人中，立一位與我們同作耶穌復活的見證。
Beginning from the baptism of John, unto that same day that he was taken up from us, must one be ordained to be a witness with us of his resurrection.

1:23    於是選舉兩個人，就是那叫作巴撒巴又稱呼猶士都的約瑟，和馬提亞。
And they appointed two, Joseph called Barsabas, who was surnamed Justus, and Matthias.

1:24    眾人就禱告說，主阿，你知道萬人的心，求你從這兩個人中，指明你所揀選的是誰，叫他得這使徒的位分。
And they prayed, and said, Thou, Lord, which knowest the hearts of all men, shew whether of these two thou hast chosen,

1:25    這位分猶大已經丟棄，往自己的地方去了。
That he may take part of this ministry and apostleship, from which Judas by transgression fell, that he might go to his own place.

1:26    於是眾人為他們搖籤，搖出馬提亞來。他就和十一個使徒同列。
And they gave forth their lots; and the lot fell upon Matthias; and he was numbered with the eleven apostles.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


2:1    五旬節到了，門徒都聚集在一處。
And when the day of Pentecost was fully come, they were all with one accord in one place.

2:2    忽然從天上有響聲下來，好像一陣大風吹過，充滿了他們所坐的屋子。
And suddenly there came a sound from heaven as of a rushing mighty wind, and it filled all the house where they were sitting.

2:3    又有舌頭如火焰顯現出來，分開落在他們各人頭上。
And there appeared unto them cloven tongues like as of fire, and it sat upon each of them.

2:4    他們就都被聖靈充滿，按著聖靈所賜的口才，說起別國的話來。
And they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and began to speak with other tongues, as the Spirit gave them utterance.

2:5    那時，有虔誠的猶太人，從天下各國來，住在耶路撒冷。
And there were dwelling at Jerusalem Jews, devout men, out of every nation under heaven.

2:6    這聲音一響，眾人都來聚集，各人聽見門徒用眾人的鄉談說話，就甚納悶。
Now when this was noised abroad, the multitude came together, and were confounded, because that every man heard them speak in his own language.

2:7    都驚訝希奇說，看哪，這說話的不都是加利利人嗎。
And they were all amazed and marvelled, saying one to another, Behold, are not all these which speak Galilaeans?

2:8    我們各人，怎樣聽見他們說我們生來所用的鄉談呢。
And how hear we every man in our own tongue, wherein we were born?

2:9    我們帕提亞人，瑪代人，以攔人，和住在美索不達米亞，猶太，加帕多家，本都，亞細亞，
Parthians, and Medes, and Elamites, and the dwellers in Mesopotamia, and in Judaea, and Cappadocia, in Pontus, and Asia,

2:10    弗呂家，旁非利亞，埃及的人，並靠近古利奈的利比亞一帶地方的人，從羅馬來的客旅中，或是猶太人，或是進猶太教的人，
Phrygia, and Pamphylia, in Egypt, and in the parts of Libya about Cyrene, and strangers of Rome, Jews and proselytes,

2:11    克里特和阿拉伯人，都聽見他們用我們的鄉談，講說神的大能作為。
Cretes and Arabians, we do hear them speak in our tongues the wonderful works of God.

2:12    眾人就都驚訝猜疑，彼此說，這是什麼意思呢。
And they were all amazed, and were in doubt, saying one to another, What meaneth this?

2:13    還有人譏誚說，他們無非是新酒灌滿了。
Others mocking said, These men are full of new wine.

2:14    彼得和十一個使徒，站起，高聲說，猶太人，和一切住在耶路撒冷的人哪，這些事你們當知道，也當側耳聽我的話。
But Peter, standing up with the eleven, lifted up his voice, and said unto them, Ye men of Judaea, and all ye that dwell at Jerusalem, be this known unto you, and hearken to my words:

2:15    你們想這些人是醉了，其實不是醉了，因為時候剛到巳初。
For these are not drunken, as ye suppose, seeing it is but the third hour of the day.

2:16    這正是先知約珥所說的。神說，在末後的日子，我要將我的靈澆灌凡有血氣的。
But this is that which was spoken by the prophet Joel;

2:17    神說，在末後的日子，我要將我的靈澆灌凡有血氣的。你們的兒女要說預言。你們的少年人要見異象。老年人要作異夢。
And it shall come to pass in the last days, saith God, I will pour out of my Spirit upon all flesh: and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, and your young men shall see visions, and your old men shall dream dreams:

2:18    在那些日子，我要將我的靈澆灌我的僕人和使女，他們就要說預言。
And on my servants and on my handmaidens I will pour out in those days of my Spirit; and they shall prophesy:

2:19    在天上我要顯出奇事，在地下我要顯出神蹟，有血，有火，有煙霧。
And I will shew wonders in heaven above, and signs in the earth beneath; blood, and fire, and vapour of smoke:

2:20    日頭要變為黑暗，月亮要變為血，這都在主大而明顯的日子未到以前。徒02：20）日頭要變為黑暗，月亮要變為血，這都在主大而明顯的日子未到以前。
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before that great and notable day of the Lord come:

2:21    到那時候，凡求告主名的，就必得救。
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the Lord shall be saved.

2:22    以色列人哪，請聽我的話。神藉著拿撒勒人耶穌，在你們中間施行異能，奇事，神蹟，將他證明出來，這是你們自己知道的。
Ye men of Israel, hear these words; Jesus of Nazareth, a man approved of God among you by miracles and wonders and signs, which God did by him in the midst of you, as ye yourselves also know:

2:23    他既按著神的定旨先見，被交與人，你們就藉著無法之人的手，把他釘在十字架上殺了。
Him, being delivered by the determinate counsel and foreknowledge of God, ye have taken, and by wicked hands have crucified and slain:

2:24    神卻將死的痛苦解釋了，叫他復活。因為他原不能被死拘禁。
Whom God hath raised up, having loosed the pains of death: because it was not possible that he should be holden of it.

2:25    大衛指著他說，我看見主常在我眼前，他在我右邊，叫我不至於搖動。
For David speaketh concerning him, I foresaw the Lord always before my face, for he is on my right hand, that I should not be moved:



2:26    所以我心裡歡喜，我的靈（原文作舌）快樂。並且我的肉身要安居在指望中。
Therefore did my heart rejoice, and my tongue was glad; moreover also my flesh shall rest in hope:

2:27    因你必不將我的靈魂撇在陰間，也不叫你的聖者見朽壞。
Because thou wilt not leave my soul in hell, neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

2:28    你已將生命的道路指示我，必叫我因見你的面，（或作叫我在你面前）得著滿足的快樂。
Thou hast made known to me the ways of life; thou shalt make me full of joy with thy countenance.

2:29    弟兄們，先祖大衛的事，我可以明明的對你們說，他死了，也葬埋了，並且他的墳墓，直到今日還在我們這裡。
Men and brethren, let me freely speak unto you of the patriarch David, that he is both dead and buried, and his sepulchre is with us unto this day.

2:30    大衛既是先知，又曉得神曾向他起誓，要從他的後裔中，立一位坐在他寶座上。
Therefore being a prophet, and knowing that God had sworn with an oath to him, that of the fruit of his loins, according to the flesh, he would raise up Christ to sit on his throne;

2:31    就豫先看明這事，講論基督復活說，他的靈魂，不撇在陰間，他的肉身，也不見朽壞。
He seeing this before spake of the resurrection of Christ, that his soul was not left in hell, neither his flesh did see corruption.

2:32    這耶穌，神已經叫他復活了，我們都為這事作見證。
This Jesus hath God raised up, whereof we all are witnesses.

2:33    他既被神的右手高舉，（或作他既高舉在神的右邊）又從父受了所應許的聖靈，就把你們所看見所聽見的，澆灌下來。
Therefore being by the right hand of God exalted, and having received of the Father the promise of the Holy Ghost, he hath shed forth this, which ye now see and hear.

2:34    大衛並沒有升到天上，但自己說，主對我說，你坐在我的右邊，
For David is not ascended into the heavens: but he saith himself, The Lord said unto my Lord, Sit thou on my right hand,

2:35    等我使你仇敵作你的腳凳。
Until I make thy foes thy footstool.

2:36    故此，以色列全家當確實的知道，你們釘在十字架上的這位耶穌，神已經立他為主為基督了。
Therefore let all the house of Israel know assuredly, that God hath made that same Jesus, whom ye have crucified, both Lord and Christ.

2:37    眾人聽見這話，覺得扎心，就對彼得和其餘的使徒說，弟兄們，我們當怎樣行。
Now when they heard this, they were pricked in their heart, and said unto Peter and to the rest of the apostles, Men and brethren, what shall we do?



2:38    彼得說，你們各人要悔改，奉耶穌基督的名受洗，叫你們的罪得赦，就必領受所賜的聖靈。
Then Peter said unto them, Repent, and be baptized every one of you in the name of Jesus Christ for the remission of sins, and ye shall receive the gift of the Holy Ghost.

2:39    因為這應許是給你們，和你們的兒女，並一切在遠方的人，就是主我們神所召來的。
For the promise is unto you, and to your children, and to all that are afar off, even as many as the LORD our God shall call.

2:40    彼得還用許多話作見證，勸勉他們說，你們當救自己脫離這彎曲的世代。
And with many other words did he testify and exhort, saying, Save yourselves from this untoward generation.

2:41    於是領受他們的人，就受了洗，那一天，門徒約添了三千人。
Then they that gladly received his word were baptized: and the same day there were added unto them about three thousand souls.

2:42    都恆心遵守使徒的教訓，彼此交接，擘餅，祈禱。
And they continued stedfastly in the apostles' doctrine and fellowship, and in breaking of bread, and in prayers.

2:43    眾人都懼怕。使徒又行了許多奇事神蹟。
And fear came upon every soul: and many wonders and signs were done by the apostles.

2:44    信的人都在一處，凡物公用。
And all that believed were together, and had all things common;

2:45    並且賣了田產家業，照各人所需用的分給各人。
And sold their possessions and goods, and parted them to all men, as every man had need.

2:46    他們天天同心合意，恆切的在殿裡且在家中擘餅，存著歡喜誠實的心用飯，
And they, continuing daily with one accord in the temple, and breaking bread from house to house, did eat their meat with gladness and singleness of heart,

2:47    讚美神，得眾民的喜愛。主將得救的人，天天加給他們。
Praising God, and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to the church daily such as should be saved.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


3:1    申初禱告的時候，彼得，約翰，上聖殿去。
Now Peter and John went up together into the temple at the hour of prayer, being the ninth hour.

3:2    有一個人，生來是瘸腿的，天天被人抬來，放在殿的一個門口，那門名叫美門，要求進殿的人賙濟。
And a certain man lame from his mother's womb was carried, whom they laid daily at the gate of the temple which is called Beautiful, to ask alms of them that entered into the temple;

3:3    他看見彼得約翰將要進殿，就求他們賙濟。
Who seeing Peter and John about to go into the temple asked an alms.

3:4    彼得約翰定睛看他。彼得說，你看我們。
And Peter, fastening his eyes upon him with John, said, Look on us.

3:5    那人就留意看他們，指望得著什麼。
And he gave heed unto them, expecting to receive something of them.

3:6    彼得說，金銀我都沒有，只把我所有的給你，我奉拿撒勒人耶穌基督的名，叫你起來行走。
Then Peter said, Silver and gold have I none; but such as I have give I thee: In the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth rise up and walk.

3:7    於是拉著他的右手，扶他起來，他的腳和踝子骨，立刻健壯了。
And he took him by the right hand, and lifted him up: and immediately his feet and ankle bones received strength.

3:8    就跳起來，站著，又行走。同他們進了殿，走著，跳著，讚美神。
And he leaping up stood, and walked, and entered with them into the temple, walking, and leaping, and praising God.

3:9    百姓都看見他行走，讚美神。
And all the people saw him walking and praising God:

3:10    認得他是那素常坐在殿的美門口求賙濟的，就因他所遇著的事，滿心希奇驚訝。
And they knew that it was he which sat for alms at the Beautiful gate of the temple: and they were filled with wonder and amazement at that which had happened unto him.

3:11    那人正在稱為所羅門的廊下，拉著彼得，約翰。眾百姓一齊跑到他們那裡，很覺希奇。
And as the lame man which was healed held Peter and John, all the people ran together unto them in the porch that is called Solomon's, greatly wondering.

3:12    彼得看見，就對百姓說，以色列人哪，為什麼把這事當作希奇呢。為什麼定睛看我們，以為我們憑自己的能力和虔誠，使這人行走呢。
And when Peter saw it, he answered unto the people, Ye men of Israel, why marvel ye at this? or why look ye so earnestly on us, as though by our own power or holiness we had made this man to walk?

3:13    亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各的神，就是我們列祖的神，已經榮耀了他的僕人耶穌。（僕人或作兒子）你們卻把他交付彼拉多。彼拉多定意要釋放他，你們竟在彼拉多面前棄絕了他。
The God of Abraham, and of Isaac, and of Jacob, the God of our fathers, hath glorified his Son Jesus; whom ye delivered up, and denied him in the presence of Pilate, when he was determined to let him go.

3:14    你們棄絕了那聖潔公義者，反求著釋放一個凶手給你們。
But ye denied the Holy One and the Just, and desired a murderer to be granted unto you;

3:15    你們殺了那生命的主，神卻叫他從死裡復活了。我們都是為這事作見證。
And killed the Prince of life, whom God hath raised from the dead; whereof we are witnesses.

3:16    我們因他的名，他的名便叫你們所看見所認識的這人，健壯了。正是他所賜的信心，叫這人在你們眾人面前全然好了。
And his name through faith in his name hath made this man strong, whom ye see and know: yea, the faith which is by him hath given him this perfect soundness in the presence of you all.

3:17    弟兄們，我曉得你們作這事，是出於不知，你們的官長也是如此。
And now, brethren, I wot that through ignorance ye did it, as did also your rulers.

3:18    但神曾藉眾先知的口，預言基督將要受害，就這樣應驗了。
But those things, which God before had shewed by the mouth of all his prophets, that Christ should suffer, he hath so fulfilled.

3:19    所以你們當悔改歸正，使你們的罪得以塗抹，這樣，那安舒的日子，就必從主面前來到。
Repent ye therefore, and be converted, that your sins may be blotted out, when the times of refreshing shall come from the presence of the Lord;

3:20    主也必差遣所豫定給你們的基督耶穌降臨。
And he shall send Jesus Christ, which before was preached unto you:

3:21    天必留他，等到萬物復興的時候，就是神從創世以來，藉著聖先知的口所說的。
Whom the heaven must receive until the times of restitution of all things, which God hath spoken by the mouth of all his holy prophets since the world began.

3:22    摩西曾說，主神要從你們弟兄中間，給你們興起一位先知像我，凡他向你們所說的，你們都要聽從。
For Moses truly said unto the fathers, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear in all things whatsoever he shall say unto you.

3:23    凡不聽從那先知的，必要從民中全然滅絕。
And it shall come to pass, that every soul, which will not hear that prophet, shall be destroyed from among the people.

3:24    從撒母耳以來的眾先知，凡說預言的，也都說到這些日子。
Yea, and all the prophets from Samuel and those that follow after, as many as have spoken, have likewise foretold of these days.

3:25    你們是先知的子孫，也承受神與你們祖宗所立的約，就是對亞伯拉罕說，地上萬族，都要因你的後裔得福。
Ye are the children of the prophets, and of the covenant which God made with our fathers, saying unto Abraham, And in thy seed shall all the kindreds of the earth be blessed.

3:26    神既興起他的僕人，（或作兒子）就先差他到你們這裡來，賜福給你們，叫你們各人迴轉，離開罪惡。
Unto you first God, having raised up his Son Jesus, sent him to bless you, in turning away every one of you from his iniquities.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


4:1    使徒對百姓說話的時候，祭司們和守殿官，並撒都該人，忽然來了。
And as they spake unto the people, the priests, and the captain of the temple, and the Sadducees, came upon them,

4:2    因他們教訓百姓，本著耶穌，傳說死人復活，就很煩惱。
Being grieved that they taught the people, and preached through Jesus the resurrection from the dead.

4:3    於是下手拿住他們。因為天已經晚了，就把他們押到第二天。
And they laid hands on them, and put them in hold unto the next day: for it was now eventide.

4:4    但聽道之人，有許多信的，男丁數目，約有五千。
Howbeit many of them which heard the word believed; and the number of the men was about five thousand.

4:5    第二天，官府，長老，和文士，在耶路撒冷聚會。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that their rulers, and elders, and scribes,

4:6    又有大祭司亞那，和該亞法，約翰，亞歷山大，並大祭司的親族都在那裡。
And Annas the high priest, and Caiaphas, and John, and Alexander, and as many as were of the kindred of the high priest, were gathered together at Jerusalem.

4:7    叫使徒站在當中，就問他們說，你們用什麼能力，奉誰的名，作這事呢。
And when they had set them in the midst, they asked, By what power, or by what name, have ye done this?

4:8    那時，彼得被聖靈充滿，對他們說，
Then Peter, filled with the Holy Ghost, said unto them, Ye rulers of the people, and elders of Israel,

4:9    治民的官府，和長老阿，倘若今日，因為在殘疾人身上所行的善事，查問我們他是怎樣得了痊癒。
If we this day be examined of the good deed done to the impotent man, by what means he is made whole;

4:10    你們眾人，和以色列百姓，都當知道，站在你們面前的這人得痊癒，是因你們所釘十字架，神叫他從死裡復活的，拿撒勒人耶穌基督的名。
Be it known unto you all, and to all the people of Israel, that by the name of Jesus Christ of Nazareth, whom ye crucified, whom God raised from the dead, even by him doth this man stand here before you whole.

4:11    他是你們匠人所棄的石頭，已經成了房角的頭塊石頭。
This is the stone which was set at nought of you builders, which is become the head of the corner.

4:12    除他以外，別無拯救。因為在天下人間，沒有賜下別的名，我們可以靠著得救。
Neither is there salvation in any other: for there is none other name under heaven given among men, whereby we must be saved.

4:13    他們見彼得約翰的膽量，又看出他們原是沒有學問的小民，就希奇，認明他們是跟過耶穌的。
Now when they saw the boldness of Peter and John, and perceived that they were unlearned and ignorant men, they marvelled; and they took knowledge of them, that they had been with Jesus.

4:14    又看見那治好了的人，和他們一同站著，就無話可駁。
And beholding the man which was healed standing with them, they could say nothing against it.

4:15    於是吩咐他們從公會出去，就彼此商議說，
But when they had commanded them to go aside out of the council, they conferred among themselves,

4:16    我們當怎樣辦這兩個人呢，因為他們誠然行了一件明顯的神蹟，凡住耶路撒冷的人都知道，我們也不能說沒有。
Saying, What shall we do to these men? for that indeed a notable miracle hath been done by them is manifest to all them that dwell in Jerusalem; and we cannot deny it.

4:17    惟恐這事越傳楊在民間，我們必須恐嚇他們，叫他們不再奉這名對人講論。
But that it spread no further among the people, let us straitly threaten them, that they speak henceforth to no man in this name.

4:18    於是叫了他們，禁止他們，總不可奉耶穌的名講論教訓人。
And they called them, and commanded them not to speak at all nor teach in the name of Jesus.

4:19    彼得約翰說，聽從你們，不聽從神，這在神面前合理不合理，你們自己酌量吧。
But Peter and John answered and said unto them, Whether it be right in the sight of God to hearken unto you more than unto God, judge ye.

4:20    我們所看見所聽見的，不能不說。
For we cannot but speak the things which we have seen and heard.

4:21    官長為百姓的緣故，想不出法子刑罰他們，又恐嚇一番，把他們釋放了。這是因眾人為所行的奇事，都歸榮耀與神。
So when they had further threatened them, they let them go, finding nothing how they might punish them, because of the people: for all men glorified God for that which was done.

4:22    原來藉著神蹟醫好的那人，有四十多歲了。
For the man was above forty years old, on whom this miracle of healing was shewed.

4:23    二人既被釋放，就到會友那裡去，把祭司長和長老所說的話，都告訴他們。
And being let go, they went to their own company, and reported all that the chief priests and elders had said unto them.

4:24    他們聽見了，就同心合意的，高聲向神說，主阿，你是造天，地，海，和其中萬物的。
And when they heard that, they lifted up their voice to God with one accord, and said, Lord, thou art God, which hast made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all that in them is:

4:25    你曾藉著聖靈，託你僕人我們祖宗大衛的口，說，外邦為什麼爭鬧，萬民為什麼謀算虛妄的事。
Who by the mouth of thy servant David hast said, Why did the heathen rage, and the people imagine vain things?

4:26    世上的君王一齊起來，臣宰也聚集，要敵擋主，並主的受膏者。（或作基督）
The kings of the earth stood up, and the rulers were gathered together against the Lord, and against his Christ.

4:27    希律和本丟彼拉多，外邦人和以色列民，果然在這城裡聚集，要攻打你所膏的聖僕耶穌，（僕或作子）。
For of a truth against thy holy child Jesus, whom thou hast anointed, both Herod, and Pontius Pilate, with the Gentiles, and the people of Israel, were gathered together,

4:28    成就你手和你意旨所豫定必有的事。
For to do whatsoever thy hand and thy counsel determined before to be done.

4:29    他們恐嚇我們，現在求主鑑察。
And now, Lord, behold their threatenings: and grant unto thy servants, that with all boldness they may speak thy word,

4:30    一面叫你僕人大放膽量，講你的道，一面伸出你的手來，醫治疾病，並且使神蹟奇事，因著你聖僕耶穌的名行出來。僕或作子
By stretching forth thine hand to heal; and that signs and wonders may be done by the name of thy holy child Jesus.

4:31    禱告完了，聚會的地方震動，他們就都被聖靈充滿，放膽講論神的道。
And when they had prayed, the place was shaken where they were assembled together; and they were all filled with the Holy Ghost, and they spake the word of God with boldness.

4:32    那許多信的人，都是一心一意的，沒有一人說，他的東西有一樣是自己的，都是大家公用。
And the multitude of them that believed were of one heart and of one soul: neither said any of them that ought of the things which he possessed was his own; but they had all things common.

4:33    使徒大有能力，見證主耶穌復活。眾人也都蒙大恩。
And with great power gave the apostles witness of the resurrection of the Lord Jesus: and great grace was upon them all.

4:34    內中也沒有一個缺乏的，因為人人將田產房屋都賣了，把所賣的價銀拿來，放在使徒腳前。
Neither was there any among them that lacked: for as many as were possessors of lands or houses sold them, and brought the prices of the things that were sold,

4:35    照各人所需用的，分給各人。
And laid them down at the apostles' feet: and distribution was made unto every man according as he had need.

4:36    有一個利未人，生在塞普勒斯，名叫約瑟，使徒稱他為巴拿巴。（巴拿巴翻出來，就是勸慰子）。
And Joses, who by the apostles was surnamed Barnabas, (which is, being interpreted, The son of consolation,) a Levite, and of the country of Cyprus,

4:37    他有田地，也賣了，把價銀拿來，放在使徒腳前。
Having land, sold it, and brought the money, and laid it at the apostles' feet.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


5:1    有一個人，名叫亞拿尼亞，同他的妻子撒非喇，賣了田產。
But a certain man named Ananias, with Sapphira his wife, sold a possession,

5:2    把價銀私自留下幾分，他的妻子也知道，其餘的幾分，拿來放在門徒腳前。
And kept back part of the price, his wife also being privy to it, and brought a certain part, and laid it at the apostles' feet.

5:3    彼得說，亞拿尼亞為什麼撒但充滿了你的心，叫你欺哄聖靈，把田地的價銀私自留下幾分呢。
But Peter said, Ananias, why hath Satan filled thine heart to lie to the Holy Ghost, and to keep back part of the price of the land?

5:4    田地還沒有賣，不是你自己的嗎。既賣了，價銀不是你作主嗎。你怎嗎心起這意念呢。你不是欺哄人，是欺哄神了。
Whiles it remained, was it not thine own? and after it was sold, was it not in thine own power? why hast thou conceived this thing in thine heart? thou hast not lied unto men, but unto God.



5:5    亞拿尼亞聽見這話，就仆倒斷了氣。聽見的人都甚懼怕。
And Ananias hearing these words fell down, and gave up the ghost: and great fear came on all them that heard these things.

5:6    有些少年人起來，把他包裹抬出去埋葬了。
And the young men arose, wound him up, and carried him out, and buried him.

5:7    約過了三小時，他的妻子進來，還不知道這事。
And it was about the space of three hours after, when his wife, not knowing what was done, came in.

5:8    彼得對他說，你告訴我，你們賣田地的價銀，就是這些嗎。他說，就是這些。
And Peter answered unto her, Tell me whether ye sold the land for so much? And she said, Yea, for so much.

5:9    彼得說，你們為什麼同心試探主的靈呢。埋葬你丈夫之人的腳，已到門口，他們也要把你抬出去。
Then Peter said unto her, How is it that ye have agreed together to tempt the Spirit of the Lord? behold, the feet of them which have buried thy husband are at the door, and shall carry thee out.

5:10    婦人立刻仆倒在彼得腳前，斷了氣。那些人進來，見他已經死了，就抬出去，埋在他丈夫旁邊。
Then fell she down straightway at his feet, and yielded up the ghost: and the young men came in, and found her dead, and, carrying her forth, buried her by her husband.

5:11    全教會，和聽見這事的人，都甚懼怕。
And great fear came upon all the church, and upon as many as heard these things.

5:12    主藉使徒的手，在民間行了許多神蹟奇事，（他們（或作信的人）同心合意的在所羅門的廊下。
And by the hands of the apostles were many signs and wonders wrought among the people; (and they were all with one accord in Solomon's porch.

5:13    其餘的人，沒有一個敢貼近他們。百姓卻尊重他們。
And of the rest durst no man join himself to them: but the people magnified them.

5:14    信而歸主的人越發增添，連男帶女很多）。
And believers were the more added to the Lord, multitudes both of men and women.)

5:15    甚至有人將病人抬到街上，放在床上，或褥子上，指望彼得過來的時候，或者得他的影兒照在什麼人身上。
Insomuch that they brought forth the sick into the streets, and laid them on beds and couches, that at the least the shadow of Peter passing by might overshadow some of them.

5:16    還有許多人，帶著病人，和被汙鬼纏磨的，從耶路撒冷四圍的城邑來，全都得了醫治。
There came also a multitude out of the cities round about unto Jerusalem, bringing sick folks, and them which were vexed with unclean spirits: and they were healed every one.

5:17    大祭司和他的一切同人，就是撒都該教門的人，都起來，滿心忌恨。
Then the high priest rose up, and all they that were with him, (which is the sect of the Sadducees,) and were filled with indignation,

5:18    就下手拿住使徒，收在外監。
And laid their hands on the apostles, and put them in the common prison.

5:19    但主的使者，夜間開了監門，領他們出來，
But the angel of the Lord by night opened the prison doors, and brought them forth, and said,

5:20    說，你們去站在殿裡，把這生命的道，都講給百姓聽。
Go, stand and speak in the temple to the people all the words of this life.

5:21    使徒聽了這話，天將亮的時候，就進殿裡去教訓人。大祭司和他的同人來了，叫齊公會的人，和以色列族的眾長老，就差人到監裡去，要把使徒提出來。
And when they heard that, they entered into the temple early in the morning, and taught. But the high priest came, and they that were with him, and called the council together, and all the senate of the children of Israel, and sent to the prison to have them brought.

5:22    但差役到了，不見他們在監裡，就回來稟報說，
But when the officers came, and found them not in the prison, they returned, and told,

5:23    我們看見監牢關得極妥當，看守的人也站在門外，及至開了門，裡面一個人都不見。
Saying, The prison truly found we shut with all safety, and the keepers standing without before the doors: but when we had opened, we found no man within.

5:24    守殿官和祭司長聽見這話，心裡犯難，不知這事將來如何。
Now when the high priest and the captain of the temple and the chief priests heard these things, they doubted of them whereunto this would grow.

5:25    有一個人來稟報說，你們收在監裡的人，現在站在殿裡教訓百姓。
Then came one and told them, saying, Behold, the men whom ye put in prison are standing in the temple, and teaching the people.

5:26    於是守殿官和差役去帶使徒來，並沒有用強暴。因為怕百姓用石頭打他們。
Then went the captain with the officers, and brought them without violence: for they feared the people, lest they should have been stoned.

5:27    帶到了，便叫使徒站在公會前，大祭司問他們說，
And when they had brought them, they set them before the council: and the high priest asked them,

5:28    我們不是嚴嚴的禁止你們，不可奉這名教訓人嗎。你們倒把你們的道理充滿了耶路撒冷，想要叫這人的血歸到我們身上。
Saying, Did not we straitly command you that ye should not teach in this name? and, behold, ye have filled Jerusalem with your doctrine, and intend to bring this man's blood upon us.

5:29    彼得和眾使徒回答說，順從神，不順從人，是應當的。
Then Peter and the other apostles answered and said, We ought to obey God rather than men.

5:30    你們掛在木頭上殺害的耶穌，我們祖宗的神已經叫他復活。
The God of our fathers raised up Jesus, whom ye slew and hanged on a tree.

5:31    神且用右手將他高舉，（或作他就是神高舉在自己的右邊）叫他作君王，作救主，將悔改的心，和赦罪的恩，賜給以色列人。
Him hath God exalted with his right hand to be a Prince and a Saviour, for to give repentance to Israel, and forgiveness of sins.

5:32    我們為這事作見證。神賜給順從之人的聖靈，也為這事作見證。
And we are his witnesses of these things; and so is also the Holy Ghost, whom God hath given to them that obey him.

5:33    公會的人聽見就極其惱怒，想要殺他們。
When they heard that, they were cut to the heart, and took counsel to slay them.

5:34    但有一個法利賽人，名叫迦瑪列，是眾百性所敬重的教法師，在公會中站起來，吩咐人把使徒暫且帶到外面去。
Then stood there up one in the council, a Pharisee, named Gamaliel, a doctor of the law, had in reputation among all the people, and commanded to put the apostles forth a little space;

5:35    就對眾人說，以色列人哪，論到這些人，你們應當小心怎樣辦理。
And said unto them, Ye men of Israel, take heed to yourselves what ye intend to do as touching these men.

5:36    從前丟大起來，自誇為大。附從他的人約有四百。他被殺後，附從他的全部散了，歸於無有。
For before these days rose up Theudas, boasting himself to be somebody; to whom a number of men, about four hundred, joined themselves: who was slain; and all, as many as obeyed him, were scattered, and brought to nought.

5:37    此後報名上冊的時候，又有加利利的猶大起來，引誘些百姓跟從他，他也滅亡，附從他的人也都四散了。
After this man rose up Judas of Galilee in the days of the taxing, and drew away much people after him: he also perished; and all, even as many as obeyed him, were dispersed.

5:38    現在我勸你們不要管這些人，任憑他們吧，他們所謀的，所行的，若是出於人，必要敗壞。
And now I say unto you, Refrain from these men, and let them alone: for if this counsel or this work be of men, it will come to nought:

5:39    若是出於神，你們就不能敗壞他們。恐怕你們倒是攻擊神了。
But if it be of God, ye cannot overthrow it; lest haply ye be found even to fight against God.

5:40    公會的人聽從了他，便叫使徒來，把他們打了，又吩咐他們不可奉耶穌的名講道，就把他們釋放了。
And to him they agreed: and when they had called the apostles, and beaten them, they commanded that they should not speak in the name of Jesus, and let them go.

5:41    他們離開公會，心裡歡喜。因為被算是配為這名受辱。
And they departed from the presence of the council, rejoicing that they were counted worthy to suffer shame for his name.

5:42    他們就每日在殿裡，在家裡，不住的教訓人，傳耶穌是基督。
And daily in the temple, and in every house, they ceased not to teach and preach Jesus Christ.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


6:1    那時，門徒增多，有說希臘話的猶太人，向希伯來人發怨言。因為在天天的供給上忽略了他們的寡婦。
And in those days, when the number of the disciples was multiplied, there arose a murmuring of the Grecians against the Hebrews, because their widows were neglected in the daily ministration.

6:2    十二使徒叫眾門徒來，對他們說，我們撇下神的道，去管理飯食，原是不合宜的。
Then the twelve called the multitude of the disciples unto them, and said, It is not reason that we should leave the word of God, and serve tables.

6:3    所以弟兄們，當從你們中間選出七個有好名聲，被聖靈充滿，智慧充足的人，我們就派他們管理這事。
Wherefore, brethren, look ye out among you seven men of honest report, full of the Holy Ghost and wisdom, whom we may appoint over this business.

6:4    但我們要專心以祈禱傳道為事。
But we will give ourselves continually to prayer, and to the ministry of the word.

6:5    大家都喜悅這話，就揀選了司提反，乃是大有信心，聖靈充滿的人，又揀選腓利，伯羅哥羅，尼迦挪，提門，巴米拿，並進猶太教的安提阿人尼哥拉。
And the saying pleased the whole multitude: and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Ghost, and Philip, and Prochorus, and Nicanor, and Timon, and Parmenas, and Nicolas a proselyte of Antioch:

6:6    叫他們站在使徒面前。使徒禱告了，就按手在他們頭上。
Whom they set before the apostles: and when they had prayed, they laid their hands on them.

6:7    神的道興旺起來。在耶路撒冷門徒數目加增的甚多。也有許多祭司信從了這道。
And the word of God increased; and the number of the disciples multiplied in Jerusalem greatly; and a great company of the priests were obedient to the faith.

6:8    司提反滿得恩惠能力，在民間行了大奇事和神蹟。
And Stephen, full of faith and power, did great wonders and miracles among the people.

6:9    當時有稱利百地拿會堂的幾個人，並有古利奈，亞力山太，基利家，亞細亞，各處會堂的幾個人，都起來，和司提反辯論。
Then there arose certain of the synagogue, which is called the synagogue of the Libertines, and Cyrenians, and Alexandrians, and of them of Cilicia and of Asia, disputing with Stephen.

6:10    司提反是以智慧和聖靈說話，眾人敵擋不住。
And they were not able to resist the wisdom and the spirit by which he spake.

6:11    就買出人來說，我們聽見他說謗？？摩西，和神的話。
Then they suborned men, which said, We have heard him speak blasphemous words against Moses, and against God.

6:12    他們又聳動了百姓，長老，並文士，就忽然來捉拿他，把他帶到公會去，
And they stirred up the people, and the elders, and the scribes, and came upon him, and caught him, and brought him to the council,

6:13    設下假見證說，這個人說話，不住的糟踐聖所和律法。
And set up false witnesses, which said, This man ceaseth not to speak blasphemous words against this holy place, and the law:

6:14    我們曾聽見他說，這拿撒勒人耶穌，要毀壞此地，也要改變摩西所交給我們的規條。
For we have heard him say, that this Jesus of Nazareth shall destroy this place, and shall change the customs which Moses delivered us.

6:15    在公會裡坐著的人，都是定睛看他，見他的面貌，好像天使的面貌。
And all that sat in the council, looking stedfastly on him, saw his face as it had been the face of an angel.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


7:1    大祭司就說，這些事果然有嗎。
Then said the high priest, Are these things so?

7:2    司提反說，諸位父兄請聽。當日我們的祖宗亞伯拉罕在美索不達米亞還未住哈蘭的時候，榮耀的神向他顯現，
And he said, Men, brethren, and fathers, hearken; The God of glory appeared unto our father Abraham, when he was in Mesopotamia, before he dwelt in Charran,

7:3    對他說，你要離開本地和親族，往我要指示你的地方去。
And said unto him, Get thee out of thy country, and from thy kindred, and come into the land which I shall shew thee.

7:4    他就離開迦勒底人之地住在哈蘭。他父親死了以後，神使他從那裡搬到你們現在所住之地。
Then came he out of the land of the Chaldaeans, and dwelt in Charran: and from thence, when his father was dead, he removed him into this land, wherein ye now dwell.

7:5    在這地方神並沒有給他產業，連立足之地也沒有給他。但應許要將這地賜給他和他的後裔為業。那時他還沒有兒子。
And he gave him none inheritance in it, no, not so much as to set his foot on: yet he promised that he would give it to him for a possession, and to his seed after him, when as yet he had no child.

7:6    神說，他的後裔，必寄居外邦，那裡的人，要叫他們作奴僕，苦待他們四百年。
And God spake on this wise, That his seed should sojourn in a strange land; and that they should bring them into bondage, and entreat them evil four hundred years.

7:7    神又說，使他們作奴僕的那國，我要懲罰，以後他們要出來，在這地方事奉我。
And the nation to whom they shall be in bondage will I judge, said God: and after that shall they come forth, and serve me in this place.

7:8    神又賜他割禮的約。於是亞伯拉罕生了以撒，第八日給他行了割禮。以撒生雅各，雅各生十二位先祖。
And he gave him the covenant of circumcision: and so Abraham begat Isaac, and circumcised him the eighth day; and Isaac begat Jacob; and Jacob begat the twelve patriarchs.

7:9    先祖嫉妒約瑟，把他賣到埃及去。神卻與他同在，
And the patriarchs, moved with envy, sold Joseph into Egypt: but God was with him,

7:10    救他脫離一切苦難，又使他在埃及王法老面前，得恩典有智慧。法老就派他作埃及國的宰相兼管全家。
And delivered him out of all his afflictions, and gave him favour and wisdom in the sight of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and he made him governor over Egypt and all his house.

7:11    後來埃及和迦南全地遭遇饑荒，大受艱難，我們的祖宗，就絕了糧。
Now there came a dearth over all the land of Egypt and Chanaan, and great affliction: and our fathers found no sustenance.

7:12    雅各聽見在埃及有糧，就打發我們的祖宗，初次往那裡去。
But when Jacob heard that there was corn in Egypt, he sent out our fathers first.

7:13    第二次約瑟與弟兄相認，他的親族也被法老知道了。
And at the second time Joseph was made known to his brethren; and Joseph's kindred was made known unto Pharaoh.

7:14    約瑟就打發弟兄請父親雅各，和全家七十五個人都來。
Then sent Joseph, and called his father Jacob to him, and all his kindred, threescore and fifteen souls.

7:15    於是雅各下了埃及，後來他和我們的祖宗都死在那裡。
So Jacob went down into Egypt, and died, he, and our fathers,

7:16    又被帶到示劍，葬於亞伯拉罕在示劍用銀子從哈抹子孫買來的墳墓裡。
And were carried over into Sychem, and laid in the sepulchre that Abraham bought for a sum of money of the sons of Emmor the father of Sychem.

7:17    及至神應許亞伯拉罕的日期將到，以色列民在埃及興盛眾多，
But when the time of the promise drew nigh, which God had sworn to Abraham, the people grew and multiplied in Egypt,

7:18    直到有不曉得約瑟的新王興起。
Till another king arose, which knew not Joseph.

7:19    他用詭計待我們的宗族，苦害我們的祖宗，叫他們丟棄嬰孩，使嬰孩不能存活。
The same dealt subtilly with our kindred, and evil entreated our fathers, so that they cast out their young children, to the end they might not live.

7:20    那時，摩西生下來，俊美非凡，在他父親家裡撫養了三個月。
In which time Moses was born, and was exceeding fair, and nourished up in his father's house three months:

7:21    他被丟棄的時候，法老的女兒拾了去，養為自己的兒子。
And when he was cast out, Pharaoh's daughter took him up, and nourished him for her own son.

7:22    摩西學了埃及人一切的學問，說話行事，都有才能。
And Moses was learned in all the wisdom of the Egyptians, and was mighty in words and in deeds.

7:23    他將到四十歲，心中起意，去看望他的弟兄以色列人。
And when he was full forty years old, it came into his heart to visit his brethren the children of Israel.

7:24    到了那裡，見他們一個人受冤屈，就護庇他，為那受欺壓的人報仇，打死了埃及人。
And seeing one of them suffer wrong, he defended him, and avenged him that was oppressed, and smote the Egyptian:

7:25    他以為弟兄必明白神是藉他的手搭救他們。他們卻不明白。
For he supposed his brethren would have understood how that God by his hand would deliver them: but they understood not.

7:26    第二天，遇見兩個以色列人爭鬥，就勸他們和睦，說，你們二位是弟兄，為什麼彼此欺負呢。
And the next day he shewed himself unto them as they strove, and would have set them at one again, saying, Sirs, ye are brethren; why do ye wrong one to another?

7:27    那欺負鄰舍的，把他推開說，誰立你作我們的首領，和審判官呢。
But he that did his neighbour wrong thrust him away, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge over us?

7:28    難道你要殺我，像昨天殺那埃及人嗎。
Wilt thou kill me, as thou diddest the Egyptian yesterday?

7:29    摩西聽見這話就逃走了，寄居於米甸。在那裡生了兩個兒子。
Then fled Moses at this saying, and was a stranger in the land of Madian, where he begat two sons.

7:30    過了四十年，在西奈山的曠野，有一位天使，從荊棘火焰中，向摩西顯現。
And when forty years were expired, there appeared to him in the wilderness of mount Sina an angel of the Lord in a flame of fire in a bush.

7:31    摩西見了那異象，便覺希奇。正進前觀看的時候，有主的聲音說，
When Moses saw it, he wondered at the sight: and as he drew near to behold it, the voice of the LORD came unto him,

7:32    我是你列祖的神，就是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神。徒07：32）摩西戰戰競競，不敢觀看。
Saying, I am the God of thy fathers, the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. Then Moses trembled, and durst not behold.

7:33    主對他說，把你腳上的鞋脫下來。因為你所站之地是聖地。
Then said the Lord to him, Put off thy shoes from thy feet: for the place where thou standest is holy ground.



7:34    我的百姓在埃及所受的困苦，我實在看見了。他們悲嘆的聲音，我也聽見了。我下來要救他們，你來，我要差你往埃及去。
I have seen, I have seen the affliction of my people which is in Egypt, and I have heard their groaning, and am come down to deliver them. And now come, I will send thee into Egypt.

7:35    這摩西，就是百姓棄絕說，誰立你作我們的首領，和審判官的。神卻藉那在荊棘中顯現之使者的手，差派他作首領，作救贖的。
This Moses whom they refused, saying, Who made thee a ruler and a judge? the same did God send to be a ruler and a deliverer by the hand of the angel which appeared to him in the bush.

7:36    這人領百姓出來，在埃及，在紅海，在曠野，四十年間行了奇事神蹟。
He brought them out, after that he had shewed wonders and signs in the land of Egypt, and in the Red sea, and in the wilderness forty years.

7:37    那曾對以色列人說，神要從你們弟兄中間，給你們興起一位先知像我的，就是這位摩西。
This is that Moses, which said unto the children of Israel, A prophet shall the Lord your God raise up unto you of your brethren, like unto me; him shall ye hear.

7:38    這人曾在曠野會中，和西奈山上與那對他說話的天使同在，又與我們的祖宗同在，並且領受活潑的聖言傳給我們。
This is he, that was in the church in the wilderness with the angel which spake to him in the mount Sina, and with our fathers: who received the lively oracles to give unto us:

7:39    我們的祖宗不肯聽從，反棄絕他，心裡歸向埃及，
To whom our fathers would not obey, but thrust him from them, and in their hearts turned back again into Egypt,

7:40    對亞倫說，你且為我們造些神像，在我們前面引路。因為領我們出埃及地的那個摩西，我們不知道他遭了什麼事。
Saying unto Aaron, Make us gods to go before us: for as for this Moses, which brought us out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

7:41    那時，他們造了一個牛犢，又拿祭物獻給那像，歡喜自己手中的工作。
And they made a calf in those days, and offered sacrifice unto the idol, and rejoiced in the works of their own hands.

7:42    神就轉臉不顧，任憑他們事奉天上的日月星辰，正如先知書上所寫的說，以色列家阿，你們四十年間在曠野，豈是將犧牲和祭物獻給我嗎。
Then God turned, and gave them up to worship the host of heaven; as it is written in the book of the prophets, O ye house of Israel, have ye offered to me slain beasts and sacrifices by the space of forty years in the wilderness?

7:43    你們抬著摩洛的帳幕，和理番神的星。就是你們所造為要敬拜的像。因此，我要把你們遷到巴比倫外去。
Yea, ye took up the tabernacle of Moloch, and the star of your god Remphan, figures which ye made to worship them: and I will carry you away beyond Babylon.

7:44    我們的祖宗在曠野，有法櫃的帳幕，是神吩咐摩西叫他照所看見的樣式作的。
Our fathers had the tabernacle of witness in the wilderness, as he had appointed, speaking unto Moses, that he should make it according to the fashion that he had seen.

7:45    這帳幕，我們的祖宗相繼承，當神在他們面前趕出外邦人去的時候，他們同約書亞把張幕搬進承受為業之地，直存到大衛的日子。
Which also our fathers that came after brought in with Jesus into the possession of the Gentiles, whom God drave out before the face of our fathers, unto the days of David;

7:46    大衛在神面前蒙恩，祈求為雅各的神豫備居所。
Who found favour before God, and desired to find a tabernacle for the God of Jacob.

7:47    卻是所羅門為神造成殿宇。
But Solomon built him an house.

7:48    其實至高者並不住人手所造的。就如先知所言，
Howbeit the most High dwelleth not in temples made with hands; as saith the prophet,

7:49    主說，天是我的座位，地是我的腳凳。你們要為我造何等的殿宇，那裡是我安息的地方呢。
Heaven is my throne, and earth is my footstool: what house will ye build me? saith the Lord: or what is the place of my rest?

7:50    這一切都是我手中所造的嗎。
Hath not my hand made all these things?

7:51    你們這硬著頸項，心與耳未受割禮的人，常時抗拒聖靈。你們的祖宗怎樣，你們也怎樣。
Ye stiffnecked and uncircumcised in heart and ears, ye do always resist the Holy Ghost: as your fathers did, so do ye.

7:52    那一個先知，不是你們祖宗逼迫呢。他們也把豫先傳說那義者要來的人殺了。如今你們又把那義者賣了，殺了。
Which of the prophets have not your fathers persecuted? and they have slain them which shewed before of the coming of the Just One; of whom ye have been now the betrayers and murderers:

7:53    你們受了天使所傳的律法，竟不遵守。
Who have received the law by the disposition of angels, and have not kept it.

7:54    眾人聽見這話，就極其惱怒，向司提反咬牙切齒。
When they heard these things, they were cut to the heart, and they gnashed on him with their teeth.

7:55    但司提反被聖靈充滿，定睛望天，看見神的榮耀，又看見耶穌站在神的右邊。
But he, being full of the Holy Ghost, looked up stedfastly into heaven, and saw the glory of God, and Jesus standing on the right hand of God,

7:56    就說，我看見天開了，人子站在神的右邊。
And said, Behold, I see the heavens opened, and the Son of man standing on the right hand of God.

7:57    眾人大聲喊叫，捂著耳朵，齊心擁上前去。
Then they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and ran upon him with one accord,

7:58    把他推到城外，用石頭打他。作見證的人，把衣裳放在一個少年人名叫掃羅的腳前。
And cast him out of the city, and stoned him: and the witnesses laid down their clothes at a young man's feet, whose name was Saul.

7:59    他們正用石頭打的時候，司提反呼籲主說，求耶穌接收我的靈魂。
And they stoned Stephen, calling upon God, and saying, Lord Jesus, receive my spirit.

7:60    又跪下大聲喊著說，主阿，不要將這罪歸於他們。說了這話就睡了。掃羅也喜悅他被害。
And he kneeled down, and cried with a loud voice, Lord, lay not this sin to their charge. And when he had said this, he fell asleep.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


8:1    從這日起，耶路撒冷的教會，大遭逼迫。除了使徒以外，門徒都分散在猶太和撒瑪列亞各處。
And Saul was consenting unto his death. And at that time there was a great persecution against the church which was at Jerusalem; and they were all scattered abroad throughout the regions of Judaea and Samaria, except the apostles.

8:2    有虔誠的人，把司提反埋葬了，為他捶胸大哭。
And devout men carried Stephen to his burial, and made great lamentation over him.

8:3    掃羅卻殘害教會，進各人的家，拉著男女下在監裡。
As for Saul, he made havock of the church, entering into every house, and haling men and women committed them to prison.

8:4    那些分散的人，往各處去傳道。
Therefore they that were scattered abroad went every where preaching the word.

8:5    腓利下撒瑪利亞城去，宣講基督。
Then Philip went down to the city of Samaria, and preached Christ unto them.

8:6    眾人聽見了，又看見腓利所行的神蹟，就同心合意的聽從他的話。
And the people with one accord gave heed unto those things which Philip spake, hearing and seeing the miracles which he did.

8:7    因為有許多人被汙鬼附著，那些鬼大聲呼叫，從他們身上出來。還有許多癱瘓的，瘸腿的，都得了醫治。
For unclean spirits, crying with loud voice, came out of many that were possessed with them: and many taken with palsies, and that were lame, were healed.

8:8    在那城裡，就大有歡喜。
And there was great joy in that city.

8:9    有一個人，名叫西門，向來在那城裡行邪術，妄自尊大，使撒瑪利亞的百姓驚奇。
But there was a certain man, called Simon, which beforetime in the same city used sorcery, and bewitched the people of Samaria, giving out that himself was some great one:

8:10    無論大小，都聽從他，說，這人就是稱為神的大能者。
To whom they all gave heed, from the least to the greatest, saying, This man is the great power of God.

8:11    他們聽從他，因他久用邪術，使他們驚奇。
And to him they had regard, because that of long time he had bewitched them with sorceries.

8:12    及至他們信了腓利所傳神國的福音，和耶穌基督的名，連男帶女就受了洗。
But when they believed Philip preaching the things concerning the kingdom of God, and the name of Jesus Christ, they were baptized, both men and women.

8:13    西門自己也信了。既受了洗，就常與腓利在一處。看見他所行的神蹟和大異能，就甚驚奇。
Then Simon himself believed also: and when he was baptized, he continued with Philip, and wondered, beholding the miracles and signs which were done.

8:14    使徒在耶路撒冷，聽見撒瑪利亞人領受了神的道，就打發彼得約翰往他們那裡去。
Now when the apostles which were at Jerusalem heard that Samaria had received the word of God, they sent unto them Peter and John:

8:15    兩個人到了，就為他們禱告，要叫他們受聖靈。
Who, when they were come down, prayed for them, that they might receive the Holy Ghost:

8:16    因為聖靈還沒有降在他們一人身上。他們只奉主耶穌的名受了洗。
(For as yet he was fallen upon none of them: only they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.)

8:17    於是使徒按手在他們頭上，他們就受了聖靈。
Then laid they their hands on them, and they received the Holy Ghost.

8:18    西門看見使徒按手，便有聖靈賜下。就拿錢給使徒說，
And when Simon saw that through laying on of the apostles' hands the Holy Ghost was given, he offered them money,

8:19    把這權柄也給我，叫我手按著誰。誰就可以受聖靈。
Saying, Give me also this power, that on whomsoever I lay hands, he may receive the Holy Ghost.

8:20    彼得說，你的銀子，和你一同滅亡吧。因你想神的恩賜，是可以用錢買的。
But Peter said unto him, Thy money perish with thee, because thou hast thought that the gift of God may be purchased with money.

8:21    你在這道上，無分無關。因為在神面前，你的心不正。
Thou hast neither part nor lot in this matter: for thy heart is not right in the sight of God.

8:22    你當懊悔你這罪惡，祈求主。或者你心裡的意念可得赦免。
Repent therefore of this thy wickedness, and pray God, if perhaps the thought of thine heart may be forgiven thee.

8:23    我看出你正在苦膽之中，被罪惡捆綁。
For I perceive that thou art in the gall of bitterness, and in the bond of iniquity.

8:24    西門說，願你們為我求主，叫你們所說的，沒有一樣臨到我身上。
Then answered Simon, and said, Pray ye to the LORD for me, that none of these things which ye have spoken come upon me.

8:25    使徒既證明主道，而且傳講，就回耶路撒冷去，一路在撒瑪利亞好些村莊傳揚福音。
And they, when they had testified and preached the word of the Lord, returned to Jerusalem, and preached the gospel in many villages of the Samaritans.

8:26    有主的一個使者對腓利說，起來，向南走，往那從耶路撒冷下迦薩的路上去。那路是曠野。
And the angel of the Lord spake unto Philip, saying, Arise, and go toward the south unto the way that goeth down from Jerusalem unto Gaza, which is desert.

8:27    腓利就起身去了。不料，有一個衣索比亞人（既古實見以賽亞十八章一節）是個有大權的太監，在衣索比亞女王幹大基的手下總管銀庫，他上耶路撒冷禮拜去了。
And he arose and went: and, behold, a man of Ethiopia, an eunuch of great authority under Candace queen of the Ethiopians, who had the charge of all her treasure, and had come to Jerusalem for to worship,

8:28    現在回來，在車上坐著，念先知以賽亞的書。
Was returning, and sitting in his chariot read Esaias the prophet.

8:29    聖靈對腓利說，你去貼近那車走。
Then the Spirit said unto Philip, Go near, and join thyself to this chariot.

8:30    腓利就跑到太監那裡，聽見他念先知以賽亞的書，便問他說，你所念的，你明白嗎。
And Philip ran thither to him, and heard him read the prophet Esaias, and said, Understandest thou what thou readest?

8:31    他說，沒有人指教我，怎能明白呢。於是請腓利上車，與他同坐。
And he said, How can I, except some man should guide me? And he desired Philip that he would come up and sit with him.

8:32    他所念的那段經，說，他像羊被牽到宰殺之地，又像羊羔在剪毛的手下無聲，他也是這樣不開口。
The place of the scripture which he read was this, He was led as a sheep to the slaughter; and like a lamb dumb before his shearer, so opened he not his mouth:

8:33    他卑微的時候，人不按公義審判他。（原文作他的審判被奪去）誰能述說他的世代，因為他的生命從地上奪去。
In his humiliation his judgment was taken away: and who shall declare his generation? for his life is taken from the earth.

8:34    太監對腓利說，請問先知說這話，是指著誰，是指著自己呢，是指著別人呢。
And the eunuch answered Philip, and said, I pray thee, of whom speaketh the prophet this? of himself, or of some other man?

8:35    腓利就開口從這經上起，對他傳講耶穌
Then Philip opened his mouth, and began at the same scripture, and preached unto him Jesus.

8:36    二人正往前走，到了有水的地方，太監說，看哪，這裡有水，我受洗有什麼妨礙呢。（有古卷在此有腓利說，
And as they went on their way, they came unto a certain water: and the eunuch said, See, here is water; what doth hinder me to be baptized?

8:37    你若是一心相信就可以，他回答說，我信耶穌基督是神的兒子）
And Philip said, If thou believest with all thine heart, thou mayest. And he answered and said, I believe that Jesus Christ is the Son of God.

8:38    於是吩咐車站住，腓利和太監二人同下水裡去，腓利就給他施洗。
And he commanded the chariot to stand still: and they went down both into the water, both Philip and the eunuch; and he baptized him.

8:39    從水裡上來，主的靈把腓利提了去，太監也不再見他了，就歡歡喜喜的走路。
And when they were come up out of the water, the Spirit of the Lord caught away Philip, that the eunuch saw him no more: and he went on his way rejoicing.

8:40    後來有人在亞鎖都遇見腓利，他走遍那地方，在各城宣傳福音，直到凱撒利亞。
But Philip was found at Azotus: and passing through he preached in all the cities, till he came to Caesarea.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


9:1    掃羅仍然向主的門徒，口吐威嚇凶殺的話，去見大祭司，
And Saul, yet breathing out threatenings and slaughter against the disciples of the Lord, went unto the high priest,

9:2    求文書給大馬士革的各會堂，若是找著信奉這道的人，無論男女，都準他捆綁帶到耶路撒冷。
And desired of him letters to Damascus to the synagogues, that if he found any of this way, whether they were men or women, he might bring them bound unto Jerusalem.

9:3    掃羅行路，將到大馬士革，忽然從天上發光，四面照著他。
And as he journeyed, he came near Damascus: and suddenly there shined round about him a light from heaven:

9:4    他就仆倒在地，聽見有聲音對他說，掃羅，掃羅，你為什麼逼迫我。
And he fell to the earth, and heard a voice saying unto him, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?

9:5    他說，主阿，你是誰。主說，我就是你所逼迫的耶穌。
And he said, Who art thou, Lord? And the Lord said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest: it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.

9:6    起來，進城去，你當作的事，必有人告訴你。
And he trembling and astonished said, Lord, what wilt thou have me to do? And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the city, and it shall be told thee what thou must do.

9:7    同行的人，站在那裡，說不出話來，聽見聲音，卻看不見人。
And the men which journeyed with him stood speechless, hearing a voice, but seeing no man.

9:8    掃羅從地上起來，睜開眼睛，竟不能看見什麼。有人拉他的手，領他進了大馬士革。
And Saul arose from the earth; and when his eyes were opened, he saw no man: but they led him by the hand, and brought him into Damascus.

9:9    三日不能看見，也不吃，也不喝。
And he was three days without sight, and neither did eat nor drink.

9:10    當下在大馬士革，有一個門徒，名叫亞拿尼亞。主在異象中對他說，亞拿尼亞。他說，主，我在這裡。
And there was a certain disciple at Damascus, named Ananias; and to him said the Lord in a vision, Ananias. And he said, Behold, I am here, Lord.

9:11    主對他說，起來，往直街去，在猶大的家裡，訪問一個大數人名叫掃羅。他正禱告。
And the Lord said unto him, Arise, and go into the street which is called Straight, and enquire in the house of Judas for one called Saul, of Tarsus: for, behold, he prayeth,

9:12    又看見了一個人，名叫亞拿尼亞，進來按手在他身上，叫他能看見。
And hath seen in a vision a man named Ananias coming in, and putting his hand on him, that he might receive his sight.

9:13    亞拿尼亞回答說，主阿，我聽見許多人說，這人怎樣在耶路撒冷多多苦害你的聖徒。
Then Ananias answered, Lord, I have heard by many of this man, how much evil he hath done to thy saints at Jerusalem:

9:14    並且他在這裡有從祭司長得來的權柄捆綁一切求告你名的人。
And here he hath authority from the chief priests to bind all that call on thy name.

9:15    主對亞拿尼亞說，你只管去。他是我所揀選的器皿，要在外邦人和君王並以色列人面前，宣揚我的名。
But the Lord said unto him, Go thy way: for he is a chosen vessel unto me, to bear my name before the Gentiles, and kings, and the children of Israel:

9:16    我也要指示他，為我的名必須受許多的苦難。
For I will shew him how great things he must suffer for my name's sake.

9:17    亞拿尼亞就去了，進入那家，把手按在掃羅身上說，兄弟掃羅，在你來的路上，向你顯現的主，就是耶穌，打發我來，叫你能看見，又被聖靈充滿。
And Ananias went his way, and entered into the house; and putting his hands on him said, Brother Saul, the Lord, even Jesus, that appeared unto thee in the way as thou camest, hath sent me, that thou mightest receive thy sight, and be filled with the Holy Ghost.

9:18    掃羅的眼睛上，好像有鱗立刻掉下來，他就能看見，於是起來受了洗。
And immediately there fell from his eyes as it had been scales: and he received sight forthwith, and arose, and was baptized.

9:19    吃過飯就健壯了。
And when he had received meat, he was strengthened. Then was Saul certain days with the disciples which were at Damascus.

9:20    掃羅和大馬士革的門徒同住了些日子。就在各會堂裡宣傳耶穌，說他是神的兒子。
And straightway he preached Christ in the synagogues, that he is the Son of God.

9:21    凡聽見的人，都驚奇說，在耶路撒冷殘害求告這名的，不是這人嗎。並且他到這裡來，特要捆綁他們帶到祭司長那裡。
But all that heard him were amazed, and said; Is not this he that destroyed them which called on this name in Jerusalem, and came hither for that intent, that he might bring them bound unto the chief priests?

9:22    但掃羅越發有能力，駁倒住大馬士革的猶太人，證明耶穌是基督。
But Saul increased the more in strength, and confounded the Jews which dwelt at Damascus, proving that this is very Christ.

9:23    過了好些日子，猶太人商議要殺掃羅。
And after that many days were fulfilled, the Jews took counsel to kill him:

9:24    但他們的計謀，被掃羅知道了。他們又晝夜在城門守候要殺他。
But their laying await was known of Saul. And they watched the gates day and night to kill him.

9:25    他的門徒就在夜間，用筐子把他從城牆上縋下去。
Then the disciples took him by night, and let him down by the wall in a basket.

9:26    掃羅到了耶路撒冷，想與門徒結交。他們卻都怕他，不信他是門徒。
And when Saul was come to Jerusalem, he assayed to join himself to the disciples: but they were all afraid of him, and believed not that he was a disciple.

9:27    惟有巴拿巴接待他，領他去見使徒，把他在路上怎嗎看見主，主怎樣向他說話，他在大馬士革，怎樣奉耶穌的名放膽傳道，都述說出來。
But Barnabas took him, and brought him to the apostles, and declared unto them how he had seen the Lord in the way, and that he had spoken to him, and how he had preached boldly at Damascus in the name of Jesus.

9:28    於是掃羅在耶路撒冷，和門徒出入來往，
And he was with them coming in and going out at Jerusalem.

9:29    奉主的名，放膽傳道。並與說希臘話的猶太人，講論辯駁。他們卻想法子要殺他。
And he spake boldly in the name of the Lord Jesus, and disputed against the Grecians: but they went about to slay him.

9:30    弟兄們知道了，就送他下凱撒利亞，打發他往大數去。
Which when the brethren knew, they brought him down to Caesarea, and sent him forth to Tarsus.

9:31    那時猶太，加利利，撒瑪利亞，各處的教會都得平安，被建立。凡事敬畏主，蒙聖靈的安慰，人數就增多了。
Then had the churches rest throughout all Judaea and Galilee and Samaria, and were edified; and walking in the fear of the Lord, and in the comfort of the Holy Ghost, were multiplied.

9:32    彼得周流四方的時候，也到了居住呂大的聖徒那裡。
And it came to pass, as Peter passed throughout all quarters, he came down also to the saints which dwelt at Lydda.

9:33    遇見一個人，名叫以尼雅，得了癱瘓，在褥子上躺臥八年。
And there he found a certain man named Aeneas, which had kept his bed eight years, and was sick of the palsy.

9:34    彼得對他說，以尼雅，耶穌基督醫好你了。起來收拾你的褥子。他就立刻起來了。
And Peter said unto him, Aeneas, Jesus Christ maketh thee whole: arise, and make thy bed. And he arose immediately.

9:35    凡住呂大和沙崙的人都看見了他，就歸服主。
And all that dwelt at Lydda and Saron saw him, and turned to the Lord.

9:36    在約帕有一個女徒，名叫大比大，翻希臘話，就是多加。（多加就是羚羊的意思）他廣行善事，多施賙濟。
Now there was at Joppa a certain disciple named Tabitha, which by interpretation is called Dorcas: this woman was full of good works and almsdeeds which she did.

9:37    當時，他患病而死。有人把他洗了。停在樓上。
And it came to pass in those days, that she was sick, and died: whom when they had washed, they laid her in an upper chamber.

9:38    呂大原與約帕相近。門徒聽見彼得在那裡，就打發兩個人去見他，央求他說，快到我們那裡去，不要耽延。
And forasmuch as Lydda was nigh to Joppa, and the disciples had heard that Peter was there, they sent unto him two men, desiring him that he would not delay to come to them.

9:39    彼得就起身和他們同去。到了，便有人領他上樓。眾寡婦都站在彼得旁邊哭，拿多加與他們同在時，所做的裡衣外衣給他看。
Then Peter arose and went with them. When he was come, they brought him into the upper chamber: and all the widows stood by him weeping, and shewing the coats and garments which Dorcas made, while she was with them.

9:40    彼得叫他們都出去，就跪下禱告，轉身對著死人說，大比大，起來，他就睜開眼睛，見了彼得，便坐起來。
But Peter put them all forth, and kneeled down, and prayed; and turning him to the body said, Tabitha, arise. And she opened her eyes: and when she saw Peter, she sat up.

9:41    彼得伸手扶他起來，叫聖徒和寡婦進去，把多加活活的交給他們。
And he gave her his hand, and lifted her up, and when he had called the saints and widows, presented her alive.

9:42    這事傳遍了約帕，就有許多人信了主。
And it was known throughout all Joppa; and many believed in the Lord.

9:43    此後彼得在約帕一個硝皮匠西門的家裡，住了多日。
And it came to pass, that he tarried many days in Joppa with one Simon a tanner.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


10:1    在凱撒利亞有一個人，名叫哥尼流，是義大利營的百夫長。
There was a certain man in Caesarea called Cornelius, a centurion of the band called the Italian band,

10:2    他是個虔誠人，他和全家都敬畏）神，多多賙濟百姓，常常禱告）神。
A devout man, and one that feared God with all his house, which gave much alms to the people, and prayed to God alway.

10:3    有一天，約在申初，他在異象中，明明看見神的一個使者進去，到他那裡，說，哥尼流。
He saw in a vision evidently about the ninth hour of the day an angel of God coming in to him, and saying unto him, Cornelius.

10:4    哥尼流定睛看他，驚怕說，主阿，什麼事呢。天使說，你的禱告，和你的賙濟，達到神面前已蒙記念了。
And when he looked on him, he was afraid, and said, What is it, Lord? And he said unto him, Thy prayers and thine alms are come up for a memorial before God.

10:5    現在你打發人往約帕去，請那稱呼彼得的西門來。
And now send men to Joppa, and call for one Simon, whose surname is Peter:

10:6    他住在海邊一個硝皮匠西門的家裡。房子在海邊上。
He lodgeth with one Simon a tanner, whose house is by the sea side: he shall tell thee what thou oughtest to do.

10:7    向他說話的天使去後，哥尼流叫了兩個家人，和常伺候他的一個虔誠兵來。
And when the angel which spake unto Cornelius was departed, he called two of his household servants, and a devout soldier of them that waited on him continually;

10:8    把這事都述說給他們聽，就打發他們往約帕去。
And when he had declared all these things unto them, he sent them to Joppa.

10:9    第二天，他們行路將近那城，彼得約在午正，上房頂去禱告。
On the morrow, as they went on their journey, and drew nigh unto the city, Peter went up upon the housetop to pray about the sixth hour:

10:10    覺得餓了，想要吃。那家的人正豫備飯的時候，彼得魂遊象外。
And he became very hungry, and would have eaten: but while they made ready, he fell into a trance,

10:11    看見天開了，有一物降下，好像一塊大布。繫著四角，槌在地上。
And saw heaven opened, and a certain vessel descending unto him, as it had been a great sheet knit at the four corners, and let down to the earth:

10:12    裡面有地上各樣四足的走獸，和昆蟲，並天上的飛鳥。
Wherein were all manner of fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air.

10:13    又有聲音向他說，彼得起來，宰了吃。
And there came a voice to him, Rise, Peter; kill, and eat.

10:14    彼得卻說，主阿，這是不可的，凡俗物，和不潔淨的物，我從來沒有吃過。
But Peter said, Not so, Lord; for I have never eaten any thing that is common or unclean.

10:15    第二次有聲音向他說，神所潔淨的，你不可當作俗物。
And the voice spake unto him again the second time, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.

10:16    這樣一連三次，那物隨既收回天上去了。
This was done thrice: and the vessel was received up again into heaven.

10:17    彼得心裡正在猜疑之間，不知所看見的異象是什麼意思，哥尼流所差來的人，已經訪問到西門的家，站在門外，
Now while Peter doubted in himself what this vision which he had seen should mean, behold, the men which were sent from Cornelius had made enquiry for Simon's house, and stood before the gate,

10:18    喊著問，有稱呼彼得的西門住在這裡沒有。
And called, and asked whether Simon, which was surnamed Peter, were lodged there.

10:19    彼得還思想那異象的時候，聖靈向他說，有三個人來找你。
While Peter thought on the vision, the Spirit said unto him, Behold, three men seek thee.

10:20    起來，下去，和他們同往，不要疑惑。因為是我差他們來的。
Arise therefore, and get thee down, and go with them, doubting nothing: for I have sent them.

10:21    於是彼得下去見那些人，說，我就是你們所找的人。你們來是為什麼緣故。
Then Peter went down to the men which were sent unto him from Cornelius; and said, Behold, I am he whom ye seek: what is the cause wherefore ye are come?

10:22    他們說，百夫長哥尼流是個義人，敬畏神，為猶太通國所稱讚，他蒙一位聖天使指示，叫他請你到他家裡去，聽你的話。
And they said, Cornelius the centurion, a just man, and one that feareth God, and of good report among all the nation of the Jews, was warned from God by an holy angel to send for thee into his house, and to hear words of thee.

10:23    彼得請他們進去，住了一宿。
Then called he them in, and lodged them. And on the morrow Peter went away with them, and certain brethren from Joppa accompanied him.

10:24    次日起身和他們同去，還有約帕的幾個弟兄同著他去。又次日，他們進入凱撒利亞。哥尼流已經請了他的親屬密友，等候他們。
And the morrow after they entered into Caesarea. And Cornelius waited for them, and had called together his kinsmen and near friends.

10:25    彼得一進去，哥尼流就迎接他，俯伏在他腳前拜他。
And as Peter was coming in, Cornelius met him, and fell down at his feet, and worshipped him.

10:26    彼得卻拉他說，我也是人。
But Peter took him up, saying, Stand up; I myself also am a man.

10:27    彼得和他說著話進去，見有好些人在那裡聚集，
And as he talked with him, he went in, and found many that were come together.

10:28    就對他們說，你們知道猶太人，和別國的人親近往來，本是不合例的。但神已經指示我，無論什麼人，都不能看作俗而不潔淨的。
And he said unto them, Ye know how that it is an unlawful thing for a man that is a Jew to keep company, or come unto one of another nation; but God hath shewed me that I should not call any man common or unclean.

10:29    所已我被請的時候，就不推辭而來。現在請問，你們叫我來有什麼意思呢。
Therefore came I unto you without gainsaying, as soon as I was sent for: I ask therefore for what intent ye have sent for me?

10:30    哥尼流說，前四天這個時候，我在家中守著申初的禱告，忽然有一個人，穿著光明的衣裳，站在我面前，
And Cornelius said, Four days ago I was fasting until this hour; and at the ninth hour I prayed in my house, and, behold, a man stood before me in bright clothing,

10:31    說，哥尼流，你的禱告，已蒙垂聽，你的賙濟，達到神面前已蒙記念了。
And said, Cornelius, thy prayer is heard, and thine alms are had in remembrance in the sight of God.

10:32    你當打發人往約帕去，請那稱呼彼得的西門來，他住在海邊一個硝皮匠西門的家裡。
Send therefore to Joppa, and call hither Simon, whose surname is Peter; he is lodged in the house of one Simon a tanner by the sea side: who, when he cometh, shall speak unto thee.

10:33    所以我立時打發人去請你，你來了很好。現在我們都在神面前，要聽主所吩咐你的一切話。
Immediately therefore I sent to thee; and thou hast well done that thou art come. Now therefore are we all here present before God, to hear all things that are commanded thee of God.

10:34    彼得就開口說，我真看出神是不偏待人。
Then Peter opened his mouth, and said, Of a truth I perceive that God is no respecter of persons:

10:35    原來各國中，那敬畏主行義的人，都為主所悅納。
But in every nation he that feareth him, and worketh righteousness, is accepted with him.

10:36    神藉著耶穌基督（他是萬有的主）傳和平的福音，將這道賜給以色列人。
The word which God sent unto the children of Israel, preaching peace by Jesus Christ: (he is Lord of all:)

10:37    這話在約翰宣傳洗禮以後，所加利利起，傳遍了猶太。
That word, I say, ye know, which was published throughout all Judaea, and began from Galilee, after the baptism which John preached;

10:38    神怎樣以聖靈和能力，膏拿撒勒人耶穌，這都是你們知道的。他周流四方行善事，醫好凡被魔鬼壓制的人。因為神與他同在。
How God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Ghost and with power: who went about doing good, and healing all that were oppressed of the devil; for God was with him.

10:39    他在猶太人之地，並耶路撒冷，所行的一切事，有我們作見證。他們把他掛在木頭上殺了。
And we are witnesses of all things which he did both in the land of the Jews, and in Jerusalem; whom they slew and hanged on a tree:

10:40    第三日神叫他復活，顯現出來，
Him God raised up the third day, and shewed him openly;

10:41    不是顯給眾人看，乃是顯給神豫先所揀選為他作見證的人看，就是我們這些在他從死裡復活以後，和他同吃同喝的人。
Not to all the people, but unto witnesses chosen before of God, even to us, who did eat and drink with him after he rose from the dead.

10:42    他吩咐我們傳道給眾人，證明他是神所立定的，要作審判活人死人的主。
And he commanded us to preach unto the people, and to testify that it is he which was ordained of God to be the Judge of quick and dead.

10:43    眾先知也為他作見證，說，凡信他的人，必因他的名，得蒙赦罪。
To him give all the prophets witness, that through his name whosoever believeth in him shall receive remission of sins.

10:44    彼得還說這話的時候，聖靈降在一切聽道的人身上。
While Peter yet spake these words, the Holy Ghost fell on all them which heard the word.

10:45    那些奉割禮和彼得同來的信徒，見聖靈的恩賜也澆在外邦人身上，就都希奇。
And they of the circumcision which believed were astonished, as many as came with Peter, because that on the Gentiles also was poured out the gift of the Holy Ghost.

10:46    因聽見他們說方言，稱讚神為大。
For they heard them speak with tongues, and magnify God. Then answered Peter,

10:47    於是彼得說，這些人既受了聖靈，與我們一樣，誰能禁止用水給他們施洗呢。
Can any man forbid water, that these should not be baptized, which have received the Holy Ghost as well as we?

10:48    就吩咐奉耶穌基督的名給他們施洗。他們又請彼得住了幾天。
And he commanded them to be baptized in the name of the Lord. Then prayed they him to tarry certain days.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


11:1    使徒和在猶太的眾弟兄，聽說外邦人也領受了神的道。
And the apostles and brethren that were in Judaea heard that the Gentiles had also received the word of God.

11:2    及至彼得上了耶路撒冷，那些奉割禮的門徒和他爭辯說，
And when Peter was come up to Jerusalem, they that were of the circumcision contended with him,

11:3    你進入未受割禮之人的家，和他們一同吃飯了。
Saying, Thou wentest in to men uncircumcised, and didst eat with them.

11:4    彼得就開口，把這事挨次給他們講解說，
But Peter rehearsed the matter from the beginning, and expounded it by order unto them, saying,

11:5    我在約帕城裡禱告的時候，魂遊象外，看見異象，有一物降下，好像一塊大布，繫著四角，從天上縋下，直來到我跟前。
I was in the city of Joppa praying: and in a trance I saw a vision, A certain vessel descend, as it had been a great sheet, let down from heaven by four corners; and it came even to me:

11:6    我定睛觀看，見內中有地上四足的牲畜，和野獸，昆蟲，並天上的飛鳥。
Upon the which when I had fastened mine eyes, I considered, and saw fourfooted beasts of the earth, and wild beasts, and creeping things, and fowls of the air.

11:7    我且聽見有聲音向我說，彼得，起來，宰了吃。
And I heard a voice saying unto me, Arise, Peter; slay and eat.

11:8    我說，主阿，這是不可的。凡俗而不潔淨的物，從來沒有入過我的口。
But I said, Not so, Lord: for nothing common or unclean hath at any time entered into my mouth.

11:9    第二次，有聲音從天上說，神所潔淨的，你不可當作俗物。
But the voice answered me again from heaven, What God hath cleansed, that call not thou common.

11:10    這樣一連三次，就都收回天上去了。
And this was done three times: and all were drawn up again into heaven.

11:11    正當那時，有三個人站在我們所住的房門前，是從凱撒利亞差來見我的。
And, behold, immediately there were three men already come unto the house where I was, sent from Caesarea unto me.

11:12    聖靈吩咐我和他們同去，不要疑惑。（或作不要分別等類）同著我去的，還有這六位弟兄。我們都進了那人的家。
And the Spirit bade me go with them, nothing doubting. Moreover these six brethren accompanied me, and we entered into the man's house:

11:13    那人就告訴我們，他如何看見一位天使，站在他屋裡，說，你打發人往約帕去，請那稱呼彼得的西門來。
And he shewed us how he had seen an angel in his house, which stood and said unto him, Send men to Joppa, and call for Simon, whose surname is Peter;

11:14    他有話告訴你，可以叫你和你的全家得救。
Who shall tell thee words, whereby thou and all thy house shall be saved.

11:15    我一開講，聖靈便降在他們身上，正像當初降在我們身上一樣。
And as I began to speak, the Holy Ghost fell on them, as on us at the beginning.

11:16    我就想起主的話說，約翰是用水施洗，但你們要受聖靈的洗。
Then remembered I the word of the Lord, how that he said, John indeed baptized with water; but ye shall be baptized with the Holy Ghost.

11:17    神既然給他們恩賜，像在我們信主耶穌基督的時候，給了我們一樣，我是誰，能攔阻神呢。
Forasmuch then as God gave them the like gift as he did unto us, who believed on the Lord Jesus Christ; what was I, that I could withstand God?

11:18    眾人聽見這話，就不言語了。只歸榮耀與神，說，這樣看來，神也賜恩給外邦人，叫他們悔改得生命了。
When they heard these things, they held their peace, and glorified God, saying, Then hath God also to the Gentiles granted repentance unto life.

11:19    那些因司提反的事遭患難四散的門徒，直走到腓尼基，和塞普勒斯，並安提阿。他們不向別人講道，只向猶太人講。
Now they which were scattered abroad upon the persecution that arose about Stephen travelled as far as Phenice, and Cyprus, and Antioch, preaching the word to none but unto the Jews only.

11:20    但內中有塞普勒斯，和古利奈人，他們到了安提阿，也向希臘人傳講主耶穌。（有古卷作也向說希臘話的猶太人傳講主耶穌）
And some of them were men of Cyprus and Cyrene, which, when they were come to Antioch, spake unto the Grecians, preaching the LORD Jesus.

11:21    主與他們同在，信而歸主的人就很多了。
And the hand of the Lord was with them: and a great number believed, and turned unto the Lord.

11:22    這風聲傳到耶路撒冷教會人的耳中，他們就打發巴拿巴出去，走到安提阿為止。
Then tidings of these things came unto the ears of the church which was in Jerusalem: and they sent forth Barnabas, that he should go as far as Antioch.

11:23    他到了那裡，看見神所賜的恩，就歡喜，勸勉眾人，立定心志，恆久靠主。
Who, when he came, and had seen the grace of God, was glad, and exhorted them all, that with purpose of heart they would cleave unto the Lord.

11:24    巴拿巴原是個好人，被聖靈充滿，大有信心。於是有許多人歸服了主。
For he was a good man, and full of the Holy Ghost and of faith: and much people was added unto the Lord.

11:25    他又往大數去找掃羅，
Then departed Barnabas to Tarsus, for to seek Saul:

11:26    找著了，就帶他到安提阿去。他們足有一年的工夫，和教會一同聚集，教訓了許多人。門徒稱為基督徒，是從安提阿起首。
And when he had found him, he brought him unto Antioch. And it came to pass, that a whole year they assembled themselves with the church, and taught much people. And the disciples were called Christians first in Antioch.

11:27    當那些日子，有幾位先知從耶路撒冷下到安提阿。
And in these days came prophets from Jerusalem unto Antioch.

11:28    內中有一位，名叫亞迦布站起來，藉著聖靈，指明天下將有大饑荒。這事到革老丟年間果然有了。
And there stood up one of them named Agabus, and signified by the Spirit that there should be great dearth throughout all the world: which came to pass in the days of Claudius Caesar.

11:29    於是門徒定意，照各人的力量捐錢，送去供給住在猶太的弟兄。
Then the disciples, every man according to his ability, determined to send relief unto the brethren which dwelt in Judaea:

11:30    他們就這樣行，把捐項託巴拿巴和掃羅，送到眾長老那裡。
Which also they did, and sent it to the elders by the hands of Barnabas and Saul.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


12:1    那時，希律王手下苦害教會中幾個人。
Now about that time Herod the king stretched forth his hands to vex certain of the church.

12:2    用刀殺了約翰的哥哥雅各。
And he killed James the brother of John with the sword.

12:3    他見猶太人喜歡這事，又去捉拿彼得。那時正是除酵的日子。
And because he saw it pleased the Jews, he proceeded further to take Peter also. (Then were the days of unleavened bread.)

12:4    希律拿了彼得收在監裡，交付四班兵丁看守，每班四個人，意思要在逾越節後，把他提出來，當著百姓辦他
And when he had apprehended him, he put him in prison, and delivered him to four quaternions of soldiers to keep him; intending after Easter to bring him forth to the people.

12:5    於是彼得被囚在監裡。教會卻為他切切的禱告神。
Peter therefore was kept in prison: but prayer was made without ceasing of the church unto God for him.

12:6    希律將要提他出來的前一夜，彼得被兩條鐵鏈鎖著，睡在兩個兵丁當中。看守的人也在門外看守。
And when Herod would have brought him forth, the same night Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains: and the keepers before the door kept the prison.

12:7    忽然有主的一個使者，站在旁邊，屋裡有光照耀。天使拍彼得的肋旁，拍醒了他，說，快快起來。那鐵鏈就從他手上脫落下來。
And, behold, the angel of the Lord came upon him, and a light shined in the prison: and he smote Peter on the side, and raised him up, saying, Arise up quickly. And his chains fell off from his hands.

12:8    天使對他說，束上帶子。穿上鞋。他就那樣作。天使又說，披上外衣跟著我來。
And the angel said unto him, Gird thyself, and bind on thy sandals. And so he did. And he saith unto him, Cast thy garment about thee, and follow me.

12:9    彼得就出來跟著他，不知道天使所作是真的，只當見了異象。
And he went out, and followed him; and wist not that it was true which was done by the angel; but thought he saw a vision.



12:10    過了第一層，第二層監牢，就來到臨街的鐵門。那門自己開了。他們出來，走過一條街，天使便離開他去了。
When they were past the first and the second ward, they came unto the iron gate that leadeth unto the city; which opened to them of his own accord: and they went out, and passed on through one street; and forthwith the angel departed from him.

12:11    彼得醒悟過來，說，我現在真知道主差遣他的使者，救我脫離希律的手，和猶太百姓一切所盼望的。
And when Peter was come to himself, he said, Now I know of a surety, that the LORD hath sent his angel, and hath delivered me out of the hand of Herod, and from all the expectation of the people of the Jews.

12:12    想了一想，就往那稱呼馬可的約翰他母親馬利亞家去。在那裡有好些人聚集禱告。
And when he had considered the thing, he came to the house of Mary the mother of John, whose surname was Mark; where many were gathered together praying.

12:13    彼得敲外門，有一個使女，名叫羅大出來探聽。
And as Peter knocked at the door of the gate, a damsel came to hearken, named Rhoda.

12:14    聽見是彼得的聲音，就歡喜的顧不得開門，跑進去告訴眾人說，彼得站在門外。
And when she knew Peter's voice, she opened not the gate for gladness, but ran in, and told how Peter stood before the gate.

12:15    他們說，你是瘋了。使女極力的說，真是他。他們說，必是他的天使。
And they said unto her, Thou art mad. But she constantly affirmed that it was even so. Then said they, It is his angel.

12:16    彼得不住的敲門。他們開了門，看見他，就甚驚奇。
But Peter continued knocking: and when they had opened the door, and saw him, they were astonished.

12:17    彼得擺手，不要他們作聲，就告訴他們主怎樣領他出監。又說，你們把這事告訴雅各，和眾弟兄。於是出去往別處去了。
But he, beckoning unto them with the hand to hold their peace, declared unto them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, Go shew these things unto James, and to the brethren. And he departed, and went into another place.

12:18    到了天亮，兵丁擾亂得很，不知道彼得往那裡去了。
Now as soon as it was day, there was no small stir among the soldiers, what was become of Peter.

12:19    希律找他，找不著，就審問看守的人，吩咐把他們拉去殺了。後來希律離開猶太，下凱撒利亞去，住在那裡。
And when Herod had sought for him, and found him not, he examined the keepers, and commanded that they should be put to death. And he went down from Judaea to Caesarea, and there abode.

12:20    希律惱怒推羅西頓的人。他們那一塊地方，是從王的地土得糧，因此就託了王的內侍臣伯拉斯都的情，一心來求和。
And Herod was highly displeased with them of Tyre and Sidon: but they came with one accord to him, and, having made Blastus the king's chamberlain their friend, desired peace; because their country was nourished by the king's country.

12:21    希律在所定的日子，穿上朝服，坐在位上，對他們講論一番。
And upon a set day Herod, arrayed in royal apparel, sat upon his throne, and made an oration unto them.

12:22    百姓喊著說，這是神的聲音，不是人的聲音。
And the people gave a shout, saying, It is the voice of a god, and not of a man.

12:23    希律不歸榮耀給神，所以主的使者立刻罰他。他被蟲所咬，氣就絕了。
And immediately the angel of the Lord smote him, because he gave not God the glory: and he was eaten of worms, and gave up the ghost.

12:24    神的道日見興旺，越發廣傳。
But the word of God grew and multiplied.

12:25    巴拿巴和掃羅，辦完了他們供給的事，就從耶路撒冷回來，帶著稱呼馬可的約翰同去。
And Barnabas and Saul returned from Jerusalem, when they had fulfilled their ministry, and took with them John, whose surname was Mark.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


13:1    在安提阿的教會中，有幾位先知和教師，就是巴拿巴，和稱呼尼結的西面，古利奈人路求，與分封之王希律同養的馬念，並掃羅。
Now there were in the church that was at Antioch certain prophets and teachers; as Barnabas, and Simeon that was called Niger, and Lucius of Cyrene, and Manaen, which had been brought up with Herod the tetrarch, and Saul.

13:2    他們事奉主，禁食的時候，聖靈說，要為我分派巴拿巴和掃羅，去作我召他們所作的工。
As they ministered to the Lord, and fasted, the Holy Ghost said, Separate me Barnabas and Saul for the work whereunto I have called them.

13:3    於是禁食禱告，按手在他們頭上，就打發他們去了。
And when they had fasted and prayed, and laid their hands on them, they sent them away.

13:4    他們既被聖靈差遣，就下到西流基，從那裡坐船往塞普勒斯去。
So they, being sent forth by the Holy Ghost, departed unto Seleucia; and from thence they sailed to Cyprus.

13:5    到了撒拉米，就在猶太人各會堂裡傳講神的道。也有約翰作他們的幫手。
And when they were at Salamis, they preached the word of God in the synagogues of the Jews: and they had also John to their minister.

13:6    經過全島，直到帕弗，在那裡遇見一個有法術假充先知的猶太人，名叫巴耶穌。
And when they had gone through the isle unto Paphos, they found a certain sorcerer, a false prophet, a Jew, whose name was Barjesus:

13:7    這人常和方伯士求保羅同在，士求保羅是個通達人。他請了巴拿巴和掃羅來，要聽神的道。
Which was with the deputy of the country, Sergius Paulus, a prudent man; who called for Barnabas and Saul, and desired to hear the word of God.

13:8    只是那行法術的呂馬，（這名翻出來就是行法術的意思）敵擋使徒，要叫方伯不信真道。
But Elymas the sorcerer (for so is his name by interpretation) withstood them, seeking to turn away the deputy from the faith.

13:9    掃羅又名保羅，被聖靈充滿定睛看他，
Then Saul, (who also is called Paul,) filled with the Holy Ghost, set his eyes on him,

13:10    說，你這充滿各樣詭詐奸惡，魔鬼的兒子，眾善得仇敵，你混亂主的正道還不止住嗎。
And said, O full of all subtilty and all mischief, thou child of the devil, thou enemy of all righteousness, wilt thou not cease to pervert the right ways of the Lord?

13:11    現在主的手加在你身上。你要瞎眼，暫且不見日光。他的眼睛立刻昏蒙黑暗，四下裡求人拉著手領他。
And now, behold, the hand of the Lord is upon thee, and thou shalt be blind, not seeing the sun for a season. And immediately there fell on him a mist and a darkness; and he went about seeking some to lead him by the hand.

13:12    方伯看見所作的事，很希奇主的道，就信了。
Then the deputy, when he saw what was done, believed, being astonished at the doctrine of the Lord.

13:13    保羅和他的同人，從帕弗開船，來到旁非利亞的別加。約翰就離開他們回耶路撒冷去。
Now when Paul and his company loosed from Paphos, they came to Perga in Pamphylia: and John departing from them returned to Jerusalem.

13:14    他們離了別加往前行，來到彼西底的安提阿。在安息日進會堂作下。
But when they departed from Perga, they came to Antioch in Pisidia, and went into the synagogue on the sabbath day, and sat down.

13:15    讀完了律法先知的書，管會堂的叫人過去，對他們說，二位兄臺，若有什麼勸勉眾人的話，請說。
And after the reading of the law and the prophets the rulers of the synagogue sent unto them, saying, Ye men and brethren, if ye have any word of exhortation for the people, say on.

13:16    保羅就起來，舉手說，以色列人，和一切敬畏神的人，請聽。
Then Paul stood up, and beckoning with his hand said, Men of Israel, and ye that fear God, give audience.

13:17    這以色列民的神，揀選了我們的祖宗，當民寄居埃及的時候，抬舉他們，用大能的手領他們出來。
The God of this people of Israel chose our fathers, and exalted the people when they dwelt as strangers in the land of Egypt, and with an high arm brought he them out of it.

13:18    又在曠野容忍他們約有四十年。（容忍或作撫養）
And about the time of forty years suffered he their manners in the wilderness.

13:19    既滅了迦南地七族的人，就把那地分給他們為業。
And when he had destroyed seven nations in the land of Chanaan, he divided their land to them by lot.

13:20    此後，給他們設立士師，約有四百五十年，直到先知撒母耳的時候。
And after that he gave unto them judges about the space of four hundred and fifty years, until Samuel the prophet.

13:21    後來他們求一個王，神就將便雅憫支派中，基士的兒子掃羅，給他們作王四十年。
And afterward they desired a king: and God gave unto them Saul the son of Cis, a man of the tribe of Benjamin, by the space of forty years.

13:22    既廢了掃羅，就選立大衛作他們的王。又為他作見證說，我尋得耶西的兒子大衛，他是合我心意的人，凡事要遵行我的旨意。
And when he had removed him, he raised up unto them David to be their king; to whom also he gave testimony, and said, I have found David the son of Jesse, a man after mine own heart, which shall fulfil all my will.

13:23    從這人的後裔中，神已經照著所應許的，為以色列人立了一位救主，就是耶穌。
Of this man's seed hath God according to his promise raised unto Israel a Saviour, Jesus:

13:24    在他沒有出來以先，約翰向以色列眾民宣講悔改的洗禮。
When John had first preached before his coming the baptism of repentance to all the people of Israel.

13:25    約翰將行盡他的程途說，你們以為我是誰，我不是基督。只是有一位在我以後來的，我解他腳上的鞋帶，也是不配的。
And as John fulfilled his course, he said, Whom think ye that I am? I am not he. But, behold, there cometh one after me, whose shoes of his feet I am not worthy to loose.

13:26    弟兄們，亞伯拉罕的子孫，和你們中間敬畏神的人哪，這救世的道，是傳給我們的。
Men and brethren, children of the stock of Abraham, and whosoever among you feareth God, to you is the word of this salvation sent.

13:27    耶路撒冷居住的人，和他們的官長，因為不認識基督，也不明白每日安息日所讀眾先知的書，就把基督定了死罪，正應了先知的預言。
For they that dwell at Jerusalem, and their rulers, because they knew him not, nor yet the voices of the prophets which are read every sabbath day, they have fulfilled them in condemning him.

13:28    雖然查不出他有當死的罪來，還是求彼拉多殺他。
And though they found no cause of death in him, yet desired they Pilate that he should be slain.

13:29    既成就了經上指著他所記的一切話，就把他從木頭上取下來，放在墳墓裡。
And when they had fulfilled all that was written of him, they took him down from the tree, and laid him in a sepulchre.

13:30    神卻叫他從死裡復活。
But God raised him from the dead:

13:31    那從加利利同上耶路撒冷的人多日看見他，這些人如今在民間是他的見證。
And he was seen many days of them which came up with him from Galilee to Jerusalem, who are his witnesses unto the people.

13:32    我們也報好資訊給你們，就是那應許祖宗的話，
And we declare unto you glad tidings, how that the promise which was made unto the fathers,

13:33    神已經向我們這作兒女的應驗，叫耶穌復活了。正如詩篇第二篇上記著說，你是我的兒子，我今日生你。
God hath fulfilled the same unto us their children, in that he hath raised up Jesus again; as it is also written in the second psalm, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee.

13:34    論到神叫他從死裡復活，不再歸於朽壞，就這樣說，我必將所應許大衛那聖潔可靠的恩典，賜給你們。
And as concerning that he raised him up from the dead, now no more to return to corruption, he said on this wise, I will give you the sure mercies of David.

13:35    又有一篇上說，你必不叫你的聖者見朽壞。
Wherefore he saith also in another psalm, Thou shalt not suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

13:36    大衛在世的時候，遵行了神的旨意，就睡了，（或作大衛按神的旨意服事了他那一世的人就睡了）。歸到他祖宗那裡，已經見朽壞。
For David, after he had served his own generation by the will of God, fell on sleep, and was laid unto his fathers, and saw corruption:

13:37    惟獨神所復活的，他並未見朽壞。
But he, whom God raised again, saw no corruption.

13:38    所以弟兄們，你們當曉得，赦罪的道是由這人傳給你們的。
Be it known unto you therefore, men and brethren, that through this man is preached unto you the forgiveness of sins:

13:39    你們靠摩西的律法，在一切不得稱義的事上，信靠這人，就都稱義了。
And by him all that believe are justified from all things, from which ye could not be justified by the law of Moses.

13:40    所以你們務要小心，免得先知書上所說的臨到你們。
Beware therefore, lest that come upon you, which is spoken of in the prophets;

13:41    主說，你們這輕慢的人要觀看，要驚奇，要滅亡。因為在你們的時候，我行一件事，雖有人告訴你們，你們總是不信。
Behold, ye despisers, and wonder, and perish: for I work a work in your days, a work which ye shall in no wise believe, though a man declare it unto you.

13:42    他們出會堂的時候，眾人請他們到下安息日，再講這話給他們聽。
And when the Jews were gone out of the synagogue, the Gentiles besought that these words might be preached to them the next sabbath.

13:43    散會以後，猶太人和敬虔進猶太教的人，多有跟從保羅，巴拿巴的，二人對他們講道，勸他們務要恆久在神的恩中。
Now when the congregation was broken up, many of the Jews and religious proselytes followed Paul and Barnabas: who, speaking to them, persuaded them to continue in the grace of God.

13:44    到下安息日，合城的人，幾乎都來聚集，要聽神的道。
And the next sabbath day came almost the whole city together to hear the word of God.

13:45    但猶太人看見人這樣多，就滿心嫉妒，硬駁保羅所說的話，並毀謗。
But when the Jews saw the multitudes, they were filled with envy, and spake against those things which were spoken by Paul, contradicting and blaspheming.

13:46    保羅和巴拿巴放膽說，神的道先講給你們，原是應當的，只因你們棄絕這道，斷定自己不配得永生，我們就轉向外邦人去。
Then Paul and Barnabas waxed bold, and said, It was necessary that the word of God should first have been spoken to you: but seeing ye put it from you, and judge yourselves unworthy of everlasting life, lo, we turn to the Gentiles.

13:47    因為主曾這樣吩咐我們說，我已經立你作外邦人的光，叫你施行救恩直到地極。
For so hath the Lord commanded us, saying, I have set thee to be a light of the Gentiles, that thou shouldest be for salvation unto the ends of the earth.

13:48    外邦人聽見這話，就歡喜了，讚美神的道，凡豫定得永生的人都信了。
And when the Gentiles heard this, they were glad, and glorified the word of the Lord: and as many as were ordained to eternal life believed.

13:49    於是主的道，傳遍了那一帶地方。
And the word of the Lord was published throughout all the region.

13:50    但猶太人挑唆虔敬尊貴的婦女，和城內有名望的人，逼迫保羅，巴拿巴，將他們趕出境外。
But the Jews stirred up the devout and honourable women, and the chief men of the city, and raised persecution against Paul and Barnabas, and expelled them out of their coasts.

13:51    二人對著眾人跺下腳上的塵土，就往以哥念去了。
But they shook off the dust of their feet against them, and came unto Iconium.

13:52    門徒滿心喜樂，又被聖靈充滿。
And the disciples were filled with joy, and with the Holy Ghost.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


14:1    二人在以哥念同進猶太人的會堂，在那裡講的叫猶太人，和希臘人，信的人很多。
And it came to pass in Iconium, that they went both together into the synagogue of the Jews, and so spake, that a great multitude both of the Jews and also of the Greeks believed.

14:2    但那不順從的猶太人聳動外邦人，叫他們心裡惱恨弟兄。
But the unbelieving Jews stirred up the Gentiles, and made their minds evil affected against the brethren.

14:3    二人在那裡住了多日，倚靠主放膽講道。主藉他們的手，施行神蹟奇事，證明他的恩道。
Long time therefore abode they speaking boldly in the Lord, which gave testimony unto the word of his grace, and granted signs and wonders to be done by their hands.

14:4    城裡的眾人就分了黨。有附從猶太人的，有附從使徒的。
But the multitude of the city was divided: and part held with the Jews, and part with the apostles.

14:5    那時，外邦人和猶太人，並他們的官長，一齊擁上來，要凌辱使徒，用石頭打他們。
And when there was an assault made both of the Gentiles, and also of the Jews with their rulers, to use them despitefully, and to stone them,

14:6    使徒知道了，就逃往呂高尼的路司得，特庇，兩個城，和周圍地方去。
They were ware of it, and fled unto Lystra and Derbe, cities of Lycaonia, and unto the region that lieth round about:

14:7    在那裡傳福音。
And there they preached the gospel.

14:8    路司得城裡，坐著一個兩腳無力的人，生來是瘸腿的，從來沒有走過。
And there sat a certain man at Lystra, impotent in his feet, being a cripple from his mother's womb, who never had walked:

14:9    他聽保羅講道。保羅定睛看他，見他有信心，可得痊癒，
The same heard Paul speak: who stedfastly beholding him, and perceiving that he had faith to be healed,

14:10    就大聲說，你起來，兩腳站直。那人就跳起來而且行走。
Said with a loud voice, Stand upright on thy feet. And he leaped and walked.

14:11    眾人看見保羅所作的事，就用呂高尼的話，大聲說，有神藉著人形，降臨在我們中間了。
And when the people saw what Paul had done, they lifted up their voices, saying in the speech of Lycaonia, The gods are come down to us in the likeness of men.

14:12    於是稱巴拿巴為宙斯，稱保羅為希耳米，因為他說話領首。
And they called Barnabas, Jupiter; and Paul, Mercurius, because he was the chief speaker.

14:13    有城外宙斯廟的祭司，牽著牛，拿著花圈，來到門前，要同眾人（向使徒獻祭。
Then the priest of Jupiter, which was before their city, brought oxen and garlands unto the gates, and would have done sacrifice with the people.



14:14    巴拿巴，保羅，二使徒聽見，就撕開衣裳，跳進眾人中間，喊著說，
Which when the apostles, Barnabas and Paul, heard of, they rent their clothes, and ran in among the people, crying out,

14:15    諸君，為什麼作這事呢。我們也是人，性情和你們一樣。我們傳福音給你們，是叫你們離棄這些虛妄，歸向那創造天，地，海，和其中萬物的永生神。
And saying, Sirs, why do ye these things? We also are men of like passions with you, and preach unto you that ye should turn from these vanities unto the living God, which made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and all things that are therein:

14:16    他在從前的世代，任憑萬國各行其道。
Who in times past suffered all nations to walk in their own ways.

14:17    然而為自己未嘗不顯出證據來，就如常施恩惠，從天降雨，賞賜豐年，叫你們飲食飽足，滿心喜樂。
Nevertheless he left not himself without witness, in that he did good, and gave us rain from heaven, and fruitful seasons, filling our hearts with food and gladness.

14:18    二人說了這些話，僅僅的攔住眾人不獻祭與他們。
And with these sayings scarce restrained they the people, that they had not done sacrifice unto them.

14:19    但有些猶太人，從安提阿和以哥念來，挑唆眾人，就用石頭打保羅，以為他是死了，便拖到城外。
And there came thither certain Jews from Antioch and Iconium, who persuaded the people, and, having stoned Paul, drew him out of the city, supposing he had been dead.

14:20    門徒正圍著他，他就起來，走進城去。第二天，同巴拿巴往特庇去，
Howbeit, as the disciples stood round about him, he rose up, and came into the city: and the next day he departed with Barnabas to Derbe.

14:21    對那城裡的人傳了福音，使好些人作門徒。就回路司得，以哥念，安提阿去，
And when they had preached the gospel to that city, and had taught many, they returned again to Lystra, and to Iconium, and Antioch,

14:22    堅固門徒的心，勸他們恆守所信的道。又說，我們進入神的國，必須經歷許多艱難。
Confirming the souls of the disciples, and exhorting them to continue in the faith, and that we must through much tribulation enter into the kingdom of God.

14:23    二人在各教會中選立了長老，又禁食禱告，就把他們交託所信的主。
And when they had ordained them elders in every church, and had prayed with fasting, they commended them to the Lord, on whom they believed.

14:24    二人經過彼西底，來到旁非利亞。
And after they had passed throughout Pisidia, they came to Pamphylia.

14:25    在別加講了道，就下亞大利去。
And when they had preached the word in Perga, they went down into Attalia:

14:26    從那裡坐船，往安提阿去。當初他們被眾人所託蒙神之恩，要辨現在所作之工，就是在這地方。
And thence sailed to Antioch, from whence they had been recommended to the grace of God for the work which they fulfilled.

14:27    到了那裡，聚集了會眾，就述說神藉他們所行的一切事，並神怎樣為外邦人開了通道的門。
And when they were come, and had gathered the church together, they rehearsed all that God had done with them, and how he had opened the door of faith unto the Gentiles.

14:28    二人就在那裡同門徒住了多日。
And there they abode long time with the disciples.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


15:1    有幾個人，從猶太下來，教訓弟兄們說，你們若不摩西的規條受割禮，不能得救。
And certain men which came down from Judaea taught the brethren, and said, Except ye be circumcised after the manner of Moses, ye cannot be saved.

15:2    保羅巴拿巴與他們大大的分爭辯論，眾門徒就定規，叫保羅，巴拿巴和本會中幾個人，為所辯論的，上耶路撒冷去，見使徒和長老。
When therefore Paul and Barnabas had no small dissension and disputation with them, they determined that Paul and Barnabas, and certain other of them, should go up to Jerusalem unto the apostles and elders about this question.

15:3    於是教會送他們起行，他們經過腓尼基，撒瑪利亞，隨處傳說外邦人歸主的事，叫眾弟兄都甚歡喜。
And being brought on their way by the church, they passed through Phenice and Samaria, declaring the conversion of the Gentiles: and they caused great joy unto all the brethren.

15:4    到了耶路撒冷，教會和使徒並長老，都接待他們，他們就述說神同他們所行的一切事。
And when they were come to Jerusalem, they were received of the church, and of the apostles and elders, and they declared all things that God had done with them.

15:5    惟有幾個信徒是法利賽教門的人，起來說，必須給外邦人行割禮，吩咐他們遵守摩西的律法。
But there rose up certain of the sect of the Pharisees which believed, saying, That it was needful to circumcise them, and to command them to keep the law of Moses.

15:6    使徒和長老，聚會商議這事。
And the apostles and elders came together for to consider of this matter.

15:7    辯論已經多了，彼得就起來，說，諸位弟兄，你們知道神早已在你們中間揀選了我，叫外邦人從我口中得聽福音之道，而且相信。
And when there had been much disputing, Peter rose up, and said unto them, Men and brethren, ye know how that a good while ago God made choice among us, that the Gentiles by my mouth should hear the word of the gospel, and believe.

15:8    知道人心的神，也為他們作了見證。賜聖靈給他們，正如給我們一樣。
And God, which knoweth the hearts, bare them witness, giving them the Holy Ghost, even as he did unto us;

15:9    又藉著信，潔淨了他們的心，並不分他們我們。
And put no difference between us and them, purifying their hearts by faith.

15:10    現在為什麼試探神，要把我們祖宗和我們所不能負的軛，放在門徒的頸項上呢。
Now therefore why tempt ye God, to put a yoke upon the neck of the disciples, which neither our fathers nor we were able to bear?

15:11    我們得救，乃是因主耶穌的恩，和他們一樣，這是我們所信的。
But we believe that through the grace of the LORD Jesus Christ we shall be saved, even as they.

15:12    眾人都默默無聲，聽巴拿巴和保羅，述說神藉他們在外邦人所行的神蹟奇事。
Then all the multitude kept silence, and gave audience to Barnabas and Paul, declaring what miracles and wonders God had wrought among the Gentiles by them.

15:13    他們住了聲，雅各就說，諸位弟兄，請聽我的話。
And after they had held their peace, James answered, saying, Men and brethren, hearken unto me:

15:14    方才西門述說神當初怎樣眷顧外邦人，從他們中間選取百姓歸於自己的名下
Simeon hath declared how God at the first did visit the Gentiles, to take out of them a people for his name.

15:15    眾先知的話，也與這意思相合。
And to this agree the words of the prophets; as it is written,

15:16    正如經上所寫的，此後我要回來，重新修造大衛倒塌的帳幕，把那破壞的，重新修造建立起來。
After this I will return, and will build again the tabernacle of David, which is fallen down; and I will build again the ruins thereof, and I will set it up:

15:17    叫餘剩的人，就是凡稱為我名下的外邦人，都尋求主。
That the residue of men might seek after the Lord, and all the Gentiles, upon whom my name is called, saith the Lord, who doeth all these things.

15:18    這話是從創世以來，顯明這事的主說的。
Known unto God are all his works from the beginning of the world.

15:19    所以據我的意見，不可難為那歸服神的外邦人。
Wherefore my sentence is, that we trouble not them, which from among the Gentiles are turned to God:

15:20    只要寫信，吩咐他們禁戒偶像的汙穢和姦淫，並勒死的牲畜，和血。
But that we write unto them, that they abstain from pollutions of idols, and from fornication, and from things strangled, and from blood.

15:21    因為從古以來，摩西的書在各城有人傳講，每逢安息日，在會堂裡誦讀。
For Moses of old time hath in every city them that preach him, being read in the synagogues every sabbath day.

15:22    那時，使徒和長老並全教會，定意從他們中間揀選人，差他們和保羅，巴拿巴，同往安提阿去。所揀選的，就是稱呼巴撒巴的猶大，和西拉，這兩個人在弟兄中是作首領的。
Then pleased it the apostles and elders, with the whole church, to send chosen men of their own company to Antioch with Paul and Barnabas; namely, Judas surnamed Barsabas, and Silas, chief men among the brethren:

15:23    於是寫信交付他們，內中說，使徒和作長老的弟兄們，問安提阿，敘利亞，基利家外邦眾弟兄的安。
And they wrote letters by them after this manner; The apostles and elders and brethren send greeting unto the brethren which are of the Gentiles in Antioch and Syria and Cilicia:

15:24    我們聽說有幾個人，從我們這裡出去，用言語攪擾你們，惑亂你們的心。（有古卷在此有你們必須受割禮守摩西的律法）。其實我們並沒有吩咐他們。
Forasmuch as we have heard, that certain which went out from us have troubled you with words, subverting your souls, saying, Ye must be circumcised, and keep the law: to whom we gave no such commandment:

15:25    所以我們同心定意，揀選幾個人，差他們同我們所親愛的巴拿巴，和保羅，住你們那裡去。
It seemed good unto us, being assembled with one accord, to send chosen men unto you with our beloved Barnabas and Paul,

15:26    這二人是為我主耶穌基督的名，不顧性命的。
Men that have hazarded their lives for the name of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:27    我們就差了猶大和西拉，他們也要親口訴說這些事。
We have sent therefore Judas and Silas, who shall also tell you the same things by mouth.

15:28    因為聖靈和我們，定意不將別的重擔放在你們身上。惟有幾件事是不可少的，
For it seemed good to the Holy Ghost, and to us, to lay upon you no greater burden than these necessary things;

15:29    就是禁戒祭偶像的物，和血，並勒死的牲畜，和姦淫。這幾件你們若能自己禁戒不犯，就好了。願你們平安。
That ye abstain from meats offered to idols, and from blood, and from things strangled, and from fornication: from which if ye keep yourselves, ye shall do well. Fare ye well.

15:30    他們既奉了差遣，就下安提阿去，聚集眾人，交付書信。
So when they were dismissed, they came to Antioch: and when they had gathered the multitude together, they delivered the epistle:

15:31    眾人唸了，因為信上安慰的話，就歡喜了。
Which when they had read, they rejoiced for the consolation.

15:32    猶大和西拉也是先知，就用許多話勸勉弟兄，堅固他們。
And Judas and Silas, being prophets also themselves, exhorted the brethren with many words, and confirmed them.

15:33    住了些日子，弟兄們打發他們平平安安的回到差遣他們的人那裡去。（有古卷在此有徒15：34節，惟有西拉定意仍住在那裡）
And after they had tarried there a space, they were let go in peace from the brethren unto the apostles.

15:34    *
Notwithstanding it pleased Silas to abide there still.

15:35    但保羅和巴拿巴，仍住在安提阿，和許多別人一同教訓人，傳主的道。
Paul also and Barnabas continued in Antioch, teaching and preaching the word of the Lord, with many others also.

15:36    過了些日子，保羅對巴拿巴說，我們可以回到從前宣傳主道的各城，看望弟兄們景況如何。
And some days after Paul said unto Barnabas, Let us go again and visit our brethren in every city where we have preached the word of the LORD, and see how they do.

15:37    巴拿巴有意，要帶稱呼馬可的約翰同去。
And Barnabas determined to take with them John, whose surname was Mark.

15:38    但保羅，因為馬可從前在旁非利亞離開他們，不和他們同去作工，就以為不可帶他去。
But Paul thought not good to take him with them, who departed from them from Pamphylia, and went not with them to the work.

15:39    於是二人起了爭論，甚至彼此分開。巴拿巴帶著馬可，坐船往塞普勒斯去。
And the contention was so sharp between them, that they departed asunder one from the other: and so Barnabas took Mark, and sailed unto Cyprus;

15:40    保羅揀選了西拉，也出去，蒙弟兄們把他交於主的恩中。
And Paul chose Silas, and departed, being recommended by the brethren unto the grace of God.

15:41    他就走遍敘利亞，基利家，堅固眾教會。
And he went through Syria and Cilicia, confirming the churches.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


16:1    保羅來到特庇，又到路司得。在那裡有一個門徒，名叫提摩太，是信主之猶太婦人的兒子，他父親卻是希臘人。
Then came he to Derbe and Lystra: and, behold, a certain disciple was there, named Timotheus, the son of a certain woman, which was a Jewess, and believed; but his father was a Greek:

16:2    路司得和以哥唸的弟兄，都稱讚他。
Which was well reported of by the brethren that were at Lystra and Iconium.

16:3    保羅要帶他同去，只因那些地方的猶太人，都知道他父親是希臘人，就給他行了割禮。
Him would Paul have to go forth with him; and took and circumcised him because of the Jews which were in those quarters: for they knew all that his father was a Greek.

16:4    他們經過各城，把耶路撒冷使徒和長老所定的條規，交給門徒遵守。
And as they went through the cities, they delivered them the decrees for to keep, that were ordained of the apostles and elders which were at Jerusalem.

16:5    於是眾教會信心越發堅固，人數天天加增。
And so were the churches established in the faith, and increased in number daily.

16:6    聖靈既然禁止他們在亞細亞講道，他們就經過弗呂家，加拉太一帶地方。
Now when they had gone throughout Phrygia and the region of Galatia, and were forbidden of the Holy Ghost to preach the word in Asia,

16:7    到了每西亞的邊界，他們想要往庇推尼去，耶穌的靈卻不許。
After they were come to Mysia, they assayed to go into Bithynia: but the Spirit suffered them not.

16:8    他們就越過每西亞，下到特羅亞去。
And they passing by Mysia came down to Troas.

16:9    在夜間有異象現與保羅。有一個馬其頓人，站著求他說，請你過到馬其頓來幫助我們。
And a vision appeared to Paul in the night; There stood a man of Macedonia, and prayed him, saying, Come over into Macedonia, and help us.



16:10    保羅既看見這異象，我們隨既想要往馬其頓去，以為神召我們傳福音給那裡的人聽。
And after he had seen the vision, immediately we endeavoured to go into Macedonia, assuredly gathering that the Lord had called us for to preach the gospel unto them.

16:11    於是從特羅亞開船，一直行到撒摩特喇，第二天到了尼亞波利。
Therefore loosing from Troas, we came with a straight course to Samothracia, and the next day to Neapolis;

16:12    從那裡來到腓立比，就是馬其頓這一方的頭一個城。也是羅馬的駐防城。我們在這城裡住了幾天。
And from thence to Philippi, which is the chief city of that part of Macedonia, and a colony: and we were in that city abiding certain days.

16:13    當安息日，我們出城門，到了河邊，知道那裡有一個禱告的地方，我們就坐下對那聚會的婦女講道。
And on the sabbath we went out of the city by a river side, where prayer was wont to be made; and we sat down, and spake unto the women which resorted thither.

16:14    有一個賣紫色布疋的婦人，名叫呂底亞，是推雅推喇城的人，素來敬拜神。他聽見了，主就開導他的心，叫他留心聽保羅所講的話。
And a certain woman named Lydia, a seller of purple, of the city of Thyatira, which worshipped God, heard us: whose heart the Lord opened, that she attended unto the things which were spoken of Paul.

16:15    他和他一家，既領了洗，便求我們說，你們若以為我是真信主的，（或作你們若以為我是忠心事奉主的）請到我家裡來住。於是強留我們。
And when she was baptized, and her household, she besought us, saying, If ye have judged me to be faithful to the Lord, come into my house, and abide there. And she constrained us.

16:16    後來，我們往那禱告的地方去。有一個使女迎著面來，他被巫鬼所附，用法術，叫他主人得大財利。
And it came to pass, as we went to prayer, a certain damsel possessed with a spirit of divination met us, which brought her masters much gain by soothsaying:

16:17    他跟隨保羅和我們，喊著說，這些人是至高神的僕人，對你們傳說救人的道。
The same followed Paul and us, and cried, saying, These men are the servants of the most high God, which shew unto us the way of salvation.

16:18    他一連多日這樣喊叫，保羅就心中厭煩，轉身對那鬼說，我奉耶穌基督的名，吩咐你從他身上出來。那鬼當時就出來了。
And this did she many days. But Paul, being grieved, turned and said to the spirit, I command thee in the name of Jesus Christ to come out of her. And he came out the same hour.

16:19    使女的主人們，見得利的指望沒有了，便揪住保羅和西拉，拉他們到市上去見首領。
And when her masters saw that the hope of their gains was gone, they caught Paul and Silas, and drew them into the marketplace unto the rulers,

16:20    又帶到官長面前說，這些人原是猶太人，竟騷擾我們的城，
And brought them to the magistrates, saying, These men, being Jews, do exceedingly trouble our city,

16:21    傳我們羅馬人所不可受，不可行的規矩。
And teach customs, which are not lawful for us to receive, neither to observe, being Romans.

16:22    眾人就一同起來攻擊他們。官長吩咐剝了他們的衣裳，用棍打。
And the multitude rose up together against them: and the magistrates rent off their clothes, and commanded to beat them.

16:23    打了許多棍，便將他們下在監裡，囑咐禁卒嚴緊看守。
And when they had laid many stripes upon them, they cast them into prison, charging the jailor to keep them safely:

16:24    禁卒領了這樣的命，就把他們下在監裡，兩腳上了木狗。
Who, having received such a charge, thrust them into the inner prison, and made their feet fast in the stocks.

16:25    約在半夜，保羅和西拉，禱告唱詩讚美神，眾囚犯也側耳而聽。
And at midnight Paul and Silas prayed, and sang praises unto God: and the prisoners heard them.

16:26    忽然地大震動，甚至監牢的地基都搖動了。監門立刻全開，眾囚犯的鎖鏈也都鬆開了。
And suddenly there was a great earthquake, so that the foundations of the prison were shaken: and immediately all the doors were opened, and every one's bands were loosed.

16:27    禁卒一醒，看見監門全開，以為囚犯已經逃走，就拔刀要自殺。
And the keeper of the prison awaking out of his sleep, and seeing the prison doors open, he drew out his sword, and would have killed himself, supposing that the prisoners had been fled.

16:28    保羅大聲呼叫說，不要傷害自己，我們都在這裡。
But Paul cried with a loud voice, saying, Do thyself no harm: for we are all here.

16:29    禁卒叫人拿燈來，就跳進去，戰戰競競的，俯伏在保羅西拉麵前。
Then he called for a light, and sprang in, and came trembling, and fell down before Paul and Silas,

16:30    又領他們出來說，二位先生，我當怎樣行才能得救。
And brought them out, and said, Sirs, what must I do to be saved?

16:31    他們說，當信主耶穌，你和你一家都必得救。
And they said, Believe on the Lord Jesus Christ, and thou shalt be saved, and thy house.

16:32    他們就把主的道，講給他和他全家的人聽。
And they spake unto him the word of the Lord, and to all that were in his house.

16:33    當夜就在那時候，禁卒把他們帶去，洗他們的傷。他和屬乎他的人，立時都受了洗。
And he took them the same hour of the night, and washed their stripes; and was baptized, he and all his, straightway.

16:34    於是禁卒領他們上自己家裡去，給他們擺上飯，他和全家，因為信了神，都很喜樂。
And when he had brought them into his house, he set meat before them, and rejoiced, believing in God with all his house.

16:35    到了天亮，官長打發差役來說，釋放那兩個人吧。
And when it was day, the magistrates sent the serjeants, saying, Let those men go.

16:36    禁卒就把這話告訴保羅說，官長打發人來叫釋放你們。如今可以出監，平平安安的去吧。
And the keeper of the prison told this saying to Paul, The magistrates have sent to let you go: now therefore depart, and go in peace.

16:37    保羅卻說，我們是羅馬人，並沒有定罪，他們就在眾人面前打了我們，又把我們下在監裡。現在要私下攆我們出去嗎，這是不行的。叫他們自己來領我們出去吧。
But Paul said unto them, They have beaten us openly uncondemned, being Romans, and have cast us into prison; and now do they thrust us out privily? nay verily; but let them come themselves and fetch us out.

16:38    差役把這話回稟官長。官長聽見他們是羅馬人，就害怕了。
And the serjeants told these words unto the magistrates: and they feared, when they heard that they were Romans.

16:39    於是來勸他們，領他們出來，請他們離開那城。
And they came and besought them, and brought them out, and desired them to depart out of the city.

16:40    二人出了監，往呂底亞家裡去。見了弟兄們，勸慰他們一番，就走了。
And they went out of the prison, and entered into the house of Lydia: and when they had seen the brethren, they comforted them, and departed.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


17:1    保羅和西拉，經過暗妃波里，亞波羅尼亞，來到帖撒羅尼迦，在那裡有猶太人的會堂。
Now when they had passed through Amphipolis and Apollonia, they came to Thessalonica, where was a synagogue of the Jews:

17:2    保羅照他素常的規矩進去，一連三個安息日，本著聖經與他們辯論，
And Paul, as his manner was, went in unto them, and three sabbath days reasoned with them out of the scriptures,

17:3    講解陳明基督必須受害，從死裡復活。又說，我所傳與你們的這位耶穌，就是基督。
Opening and alleging, that Christ must needs have suffered, and risen again from the dead; and that this Jesus, whom I preach unto you, is Christ.

17:4    他們中間有些人聽了勸，就附從保羅和西拉。並有許多虔敬的希臘人，尊貴的婦女也不少。
And some of them believed, and consorted with Paul and Silas; and of the devout Greeks a great multitude, and of the chief women not a few.

17:5    但那不信的猶太人心裡嫉妒，招聚了些市井匪類，搭夥成群，聳動合城的人，闖進耶孫的家，要將保羅西拉帶到百姓那裡。
But the Jews which believed not, moved with envy, took unto them certain lewd fellows of the baser sort, and gathered a company, and set all the city on an uproar, and assaulted the house of Jason, and sought to bring them out to the people.

17:6    找不著他們，就把耶孫和幾個弟兄，拉到地方官那裡，喊叫說，那攪亂天下的，也到這裡來了。
And when they found them not, they drew Jason and certain brethren unto the rulers of the city, crying, These that have turned the world upside down are come hither also;

17:7    耶孫收留他們。這些人都違背凱撒的命令，說另有一個王耶穌。
Whom Jason hath received: and these all do contrary to the decrees of Caesar, saying that there is another king, one Jesus.

17:8    眾人和地方官，聽見這話，就驚慌了。
And they troubled the people and the rulers of the city, when they heard these things.

17:9    於是取了耶孫和其餘之人的保狀，就釋放了他們。
And when they had taken security of Jason, and of the other, they let them go.

17:10    弟兄們，隨既在夜間打發保羅和西拉往庇哩亞去。二人到了，就進入猶太人的會堂。
And the brethren immediately sent away Paul and Silas by night unto Berea: who coming thither went into the synagogue of the Jews.

17:11    這地方的人，賢於帖撒羅尼迦的人，甘心領受這道，天天考查聖經，要曉得這道，是與不是。
These were more noble than those in Thessalonica, in that they received the word with all readiness of mind, and searched the scriptures daily, whether those things were so.

17:12    所以他們中間多有相信的。又有希臘尊貴的婦女，男子也不少。
Therefore many of them believed; also of honourable women which were Greeks, and of men, not a few.

17:13    但帖撒羅尼迦的猶太人，知道保羅又在庇哩亞傳神的道，也就往那裡去，聳動攪擾眾人。
But when the Jews of Thessalonica had knowledge that the word of God was preached of Paul at Berea, they came thither also, and stirred up the people.

17:14    當時弟兄們便打發保羅往海邊去。西拉和提摩太仍住在庇哩亞。
And then immediately the brethren sent away Paul to go as it were to the sea: but Silas and Timotheus abode there still.

17:15    送保羅的人帶他到了雅典。既領了保羅的命令，叫西拉和提摩太速速到他這裡來，就回去了。
And they that conducted Paul brought him unto Athens: and receiving a commandment unto Silas and Timotheus for to come to him with all speed, they departed.

17:16    保羅在雅典等候他們的時後，看見滿城都是偶像，就心裡著急。
Now while Paul waited for them at Athens, his spirit was stirred in him, when he saw the city wholly given to idolatry.

17:17    於是在會堂裡，與猶太人，和虔敬的人，並每日在市上所遇見的人辯論。
Therefore disputed he in the synagogue with the Jews, and with the devout persons, and in the market daily with them that met with him.

17:18    還有以彼古羅和斯多亞兩門的學士，與他爭論。有的說，這胡言亂語的要說什麼。有的說，他似乎是傳說外邦鬼神的。這話是保羅傳講耶穌，與復活的道。
Then certain philosophers of the Epicureans, and of the Stoicks, encountered him. And some said, What will this babbler say? other some, He seemeth to be a setter forth of strange gods: because he preached unto them Jesus, and the resurrection.

17:19    他們就把他帶到亞略巴古說，你所講的這新道，我們也可以知道嗎。
And they took him, and brought him unto Areopagus, saying, May we know what this new doctrine, whereof thou speakest, is?

17:20    因為你有些奇怪的事，傳到我們耳中。我們願意知道這些事是什麼意思。
For thou bringest certain strange things to our ears: we would know therefore what these things mean.

17:21    雅典人，和住在那裡的客人，都不顧別的事，只將新聞說說聽聽
(For all the Athenians and strangers which were there spent their time in nothing else, but either to tell, or to hear some new thing.)

17:22    保羅站在亞略巴古當中，說，眾位雅典人哪，我看你們凡事很敬畏鬼神。
Then Paul stood in the midst of Mars' hill, and said, Ye men of Athens, I perceive that in all things ye are too superstitious.

17:23    我遊行的時候，觀看你們所敬拜的，遇見一座壇，上面寫著未識之神。你們所不認識而敬拜的，我現在告訴你們。
For as I passed by, and beheld your devotions, I found an altar with this inscription, TO THE UNKNOWN GOD. Whom therefore ye ignorantly worship, him declare I unto you.

17:24    創造宇宙和其中萬物的神，既是天地的主，就不住人手所造的殿。
God that made the world and all things therein, seeing that he is Lord of heaven and earth, dwelleth not in temples made with hands;

17:25    也不用人手服事，好像缺少什麼，自己倒將生命氣息，萬物，賜給萬人。
Neither is worshipped with men's hands, as though he needed any thing, seeing he giveth to all life, and breath, and all things;

17:26    他從一本造出萬族的人，（本有古卷作血脈），住在全地上，並且豫先定準他們的年限，和所住的疆界。
And hath made of one blood all nations of men for to dwell on all the face of the earth, and hath determined the times before appointed, and the bounds of their habitation;

17:27    要叫他們尋求神，或者可以揣摩而得，其實他離我們各人不遠。
That they should seek the Lord, if haply they might feel after him, and find him, though he be not far from every one of us:

17:28    我們生活，動作，存留，都在乎他，就如你們作詩的，有人說，我們也是他所生的。
For in him we live, and move, and have our being; as certain also of your own poets have said, For we are also his offspring.

17:29    我們既是神所生的，就不當以為神的神性像人用手藝，心思，所雕刻的金，銀，石。
Forasmuch then as we are the offspring of God, we ought not to think that the Godhead is like unto gold, or silver, or stone, graven by art and man's device.

17:30    世人矇昧無知的時後，神並不監察，如今卻吩咐各處的人都要悔改。
And the times of this ignorance God winked at; but now commandeth all men every where to repent:

17:31    因為他已經定了日子，要藉著他所設立的人，按公義審判天下。並且叫他從死裡復活，給萬人作可信的憑據。
Because he hath appointed a day, in the which he will judge the world in righteousness by that man whom he hath ordained; whereof he hath given assurance unto all men, in that he hath raised him from the dead.

17:32    眾人聽見從死裡復活的話，就有譏誚他的，又有人說，我們再聽你講這個吧。
And when they heard of the resurrection of the dead, some mocked: and others said, We will hear thee again of this matter.

17:33    於是保羅從他們中出去了。
So Paul departed from among them.

17:34    但有幾個人貼近他，信了主，其中有亞略巴古的官丟尼修，並一個婦人，名叫大馬哩，還有別人一同信從。
Howbeit certain men clave unto him, and believed: among the which was Dionysius the Areopagite, and a woman named Damaris, and others with them.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


18:1    這事以後，保羅離了雅典，來到哥林多。
After these things Paul departed from Athens, and came to Corinth;

18:2    遇見一個猶太人，名叫亞居拉，他生在本都。因為革老丟猶太人都離開羅馬，新近帶著妻百基拉，從義大利來。保羅就投奔了他們。
And found a certain Jew named Aquila, born in Pontus, lately come from Italy, with his wife Priscilla; (because that Claudius had commanded all Jews to depart from Rome:) and came unto them.

18:3    他們本是製造帳棚為業。保羅因與他們同業，就和他們同住作工。
And because he was of the same craft, he abode with them, and wrought: for by their occupation they were tentmakers.

18:4    每逢安息日，保羅在會堂裡辯論，勸化猶太人和希臘人。
And he reasoned in the synagogue every sabbath, and persuaded the Jews and the Greeks.

18:5    西拉和提摩太從馬其頓來的時候，保羅為道迫切，向猶太人證明耶穌是基督。
And when Silas and Timotheus were come from Macedonia, Paul was pressed in the spirit, and testified to the Jews that Jesus was Christ.

18:6    他們既抗拒，毀謗，保羅就抖著衣裳說，你們的罪歸到你們自己頭上，（罪原文作血）與我無干，（原文作我卻乾淨）從今以後，我要往外邦人那裡去，
And when they opposed themselves, and blasphemed, he shook his raiment, and said unto them, Your blood be upon your own heads; I am clean: from henceforth I will go unto the Gentiles.

18:7    於是離開那裡，到了一個人的家中，這人名叫提多猶士都，是敬拜神的，他的家靠近會堂。
And he departed thence, and entered into a certain man's house, named Justus, one that worshipped God, whose house joined hard to the synagogue.

18:8    管會堂的基利司布和全家都信了主。還有許多哥林多人聽了，就相信受洗。
And Crispus, the chief ruler of the synagogue, believed on the Lord with all his house; and many of the Corinthians hearing believed, and were baptized.

18:9    夜間主在異象中對保羅說，不要怕，只管講，不要閉口。
Then spake the Lord to Paul in the night by a vision, Be not afraid, but speak, and hold not thy peace:

18:10    有我與你同在，必沒有人下手害你。因為在這城裡我有許多的百姓。
For I am with thee, and no man shall set on thee to hurt thee: for I have much people in this city.

18:11    保羅在那裡住了一年零六個月，將神的道教訓他們。
And he continued there a year and six months, teaching the word of God among them.

18:12    到迦流作亞該亞方伯的時候，猶太人同心起來攻擊保羅，拉他到公堂，
And when Gallio was the deputy of Achaia, the Jews made insurrection with one accord against Paul, and brought him to the judgment seat,

18:13    說，這個人勸人不按著律法敬拜神。
Saying, This fellow persuadeth men to worship God contrary to the law.

18:14    保羅剛要開口，迦流就對猶太人說，你們這些猶太人，如果是為冤枉，或奸惡的事，我理當耐性聽你們。
And when Paul was now about to open his mouth, Gallio said unto the Jews, If it were a matter of wrong or wicked lewdness, O ye Jews, reason would that I should bear with you:

18:15    但所爭論的，若是關乎言語，名目，和你們的律法，你們自己去辨吧。這樣的事我不願意審問。
But if it be a question of words and names, and of your law, look ye to it; for I will be no judge of such matters.

18:16    就把他們攆出公堂。
And he drave them from the judgment seat.

18:17    眾人便揪住管會堂的所提尼，在堂前打他。這些事迦流都不管。
Then all the Greeks took Sosthenes, the chief ruler of the synagogue, and beat him before the judgment seat. And Gallio cared for none of those things.

18:18    保羅又住了多日，就辭別了弟兄，坐船往敘利亞去，百基拉，亞居拉和他同去。他因為許過願，就在堅革哩剪了頭髮。
And Paul after this tarried there yet a good while, and then took his leave of the brethren, and sailed thence into Syria, and with him Priscilla and Aquila; having shorn his head in Cenchrea: for he had a vow.

18:19    到了以弗所，保羅就把他們留在那裡，自己進了會堂，和猶太人辯論。
And he came to Ephesus, and left them there: but he himself entered into the synagogue, and reasoned with the Jews.

18:20    眾人請他多住些日子，他卻不允。
When they desired him to tarry longer time with them, he consented not;

18:21    就辭別他們說，神若許我，我還要回到你們這裡。於是開船離了以弗所。
But bade them farewell, saying, I must by all means keep this feast that cometh in Jerusalem: but I will return again unto you, if God will. And he sailed from Ephesus.

18:22    在凱撒利亞下了船，就上耶路撒冷去問教會安，隨後下安提阿去。
And when he had landed at Caesarea, and gone up, and saluted the church, he went down to Antioch.

18:23    住了些日子，又離開那裡，挨次經過加拉太和弗呂家地方，堅固眾門徒。
And after he had spent some time there, he departed, and went over all the country of Galatia and Phrygia in order, strengthening all the disciples.

18:24    有一個猶太人，名叫亞波羅，來到以弗所。他生在亞力山太，是有學問的，最能講解聖經。（學問或作口才）。
And a certain Jew named Apollos, born at Alexandria, an eloquent man, and mighty in the scriptures, came to Ephesus.

18:25    這人已經在主的道上受了教訓，心裡火熱，將耶穌的事，詳細講論教訓人。只是他單曉得約翰的洗禮。
This man was instructed in the way of the Lord; and being fervent in the spirit, he spake and taught diligently the things of the Lord, knowing only the baptism of John.

18:26    他在會堂放膽講道，百基拉，亞居拉聽見，就接他來，將神的道給他講解更加詳細。
And he began to speak boldly in the synagogue: whom when Aquila and Priscilla had heard, they took him unto them, and expounded unto him the way of God more perfectly.

18:27    他想要往亞該亞去。弟兄們就勉勵他，並寫信請門徒接待他。（或作弟兄們就寫信勸門徒接待他）他到了那裡，多幫助那蒙恩信主的人。
And when he was disposed to pass into Achaia, the brethren wrote, exhorting the disciples to receive him: who, when he was come, helped them much which had believed through grace:

18:28    在眾人面前極有能力，駁倒猶太人，引聖經證明耶穌是基督。
For he mightily convinced the Jews, and that publickly, shewing by the scriptures that Jesus was Christ.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


19:1    亞波羅在哥林多的時候，保羅經過了上邊一帶地方，就來到以弗所。在那裡遇見幾個門徒。
And it came to pass, that, while Apollos was at Corinth, Paul having passed through the upper coasts came to Ephesus: and finding certain disciples,

19:2    問他們說，你們信的時候，受了聖靈沒有。他們回答說，沒有，也未曾聽見有聖靈賜下來
He said unto them, Have ye received the Holy Ghost since ye believed? And they said unto him, We have not so much as heard whether there be any Holy Ghost.

19:3    保羅說，這樣，你們受的是什麼洗呢。他們說，是約翰的洗。
And he said unto them, Unto what then were ye baptized? And they said, Unto John's baptism.

19:4    保羅說，約翰所行的是悔改的洗，告訴百姓，當信那在他以後要來的，就是耶穌。
Then said Paul, John verily baptized with the baptism of repentance, saying unto the people, that they should believe on him which should come after him, that is, on Christ Jesus.

19:5    他們聽見這話，就奉主的名受洗。
When they heard this, they were baptized in the name of the Lord Jesus.

19:6    保羅按手在他們頭上，聖靈便降在他們身上。他們就說方言，又說預言。（或作又講道）。
And when Paul had laid his hands upon them, the Holy Ghost came on them; and they spake with tongues, and prophesied.

19:7    一共約有十二個人。
And all the men were about twelve.

19:8    保羅進會堂，放膽講道，一連三個月，辯論神國的事，勸化眾人。
And he went into the synagogue, and spake boldly for the space of three months, disputing and persuading the things concerning the kingdom of God.

19:9    後來有些人，心裡剛硬不信，在眾人面前毀謗這道，保羅就離開他們，也叫門徒與他們分離，便在推喇奴的學房，天天辯論。
But when divers were hardened, and believed not, but spake evil of that way before the multitude, he departed from them, and separated the disciples, disputing daily in the school of one Tyrannus.

19:10    這樣有兩年之久，叫一切住在亞細亞的，無論是遊太人，是希臘人，都聽見主的道。
And this continued by the space of two years; so that all they which dwelt in Asia heard the word of the Lord Jesus, both Jews and Greeks.

19:11    神藉保羅的手，行了些非常的奇事。
And God wrought special miracles by the hands of Paul:

19:12    甚至有人從保羅身上拿手巾，或圍裙，放在病人身上，病就退了，惡鬼也出去了。
So that from his body were brought unto the sick handkerchiefs or aprons, and the diseases departed from them, and the evil spirits went out of them.

19:13    那時，有幾個遊行各處，唸咒趕鬼的猶太人，向那被惡鬼附的人，擅自稱主耶穌的名，說，我奉保羅所傳的耶穌，敕令你們出來。
Then certain of the vagabond Jews, exorcists, took upon them to call over them which had evil spirits the name of the LORD Jesus, saying, We adjure you by Jesus whom Paul preacheth.

19:14    作這事的，有猶太祭司長士基瓦的七個兒子。
And there were seven sons of one Sceva, a Jew, and chief of the priests, which did so.

19:15    惡鬼回答他們說，耶穌我認識，保羅我也知道。你們卻是誰呢。
And the evil spirit answered and said, Jesus I know, and Paul I know; but who are ye?

19:16    惡鬼所附的人，就跳在他們身上，勝了其中二人，制伏他們，叫他們赤著身子受了傷，從那房子裡逃出去了。
And the man in whom the evil spirit was leaped on them, and overcame them, and prevailed against them, so that they fled out of that house naked and wounded.

19:17    凡住在以弗所的，無論是猶太人，是希臘人，都知道這事，也都懼怕，主耶穌的名從此就尊大了。
And this was known to all the Jews and Greeks also dwelling at Ephesus; and fear fell on them all, and the name of the Lord Jesus was magnified.

19:18    那已經信的，多有人來承認訴說自己所行的事。
And many that believed came, and confessed, and shewed their deeds.

19:19    平素行邪術的，也有許多人把書拿來，堆積在眾人面前焚燒。他們算計書價，便知道共合五萬塊錢。
Many of them also which used curious arts brought their books together, and burned them before all men: and they counted the price of them, and found it fifty thousand pieces of silver.



19:20    主的道大大興旺而且得勝，就是這樣。
So mightily grew the word of God and prevailed.

19:21    這些事完了，保羅心裡定意，經過了馬其頓，亞該亞就往耶路撒冷去，又說，我到了那裡以後，也必須往羅馬去看看。
After these things were ended, Paul purposed in the spirit, when he had passed through Macedonia and Achaia, to go to Jerusalem, saying, After I have been there, I must also see Rome.

19:22    於是從幫助他的人中，打發提摩太，以拉都二人，往馬其頓去。自己暫時等在亞細亞。
So he sent into Macedonia two of them that ministered unto him, Timotheus and Erastus; but he himself stayed in Asia for a season.

19:23    那時，因為這道起的擾亂不小。
And the same time there arose no small stir about that way.

19:24    有一個銀匠，名叫底米丟，是製造亞底米神銀龕的，他使這樣手藝人生意發達。
For a certain man named Demetrius, a silversmith, which made silver shrines for Diana, brought no small gain unto the craftsmen;

19:25    他聚集他們和同行的工人，說，眾位，你們知道我們是倚靠這生意發財。
Whom he called together with the workmen of like occupation, and said, Sirs, ye know that by this craft we have our wealth.

19:26    這保羅不但在以弗所，也幾乎在亞細亞全地，引誘迷惑許多人，說，人手所作的不是神，這是你們所看見所聽見的。
Moreover ye see and hear, that not alone at Ephesus, but almost throughout all Asia, this Paul hath persuaded and turned away much people, saying that they be no gods, which are made with hands:

19:27    這樣，不獨我們這事業，被人藐視，就是大女神亞底米的廟，也要被人輕忽，連亞細亞全地，和普天下，所敬拜的大女神之威榮，也要銷滅了。
So that not only this our craft is in danger to be set at nought; but also that the temple of the great goddess Diana should be despised, and her magnificence should be destroyed, whom all Asia and the world worshippeth.



19:28    眾人聽見，就怒氣填胸，喊著說，大哉以弗所人的亞底米阿。
And when they heard these sayings, they were full of wrath, and cried out, saying, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:29    滿城都轟動起來。眾人拿住保羅同行的馬其頓人，該猶，和亞里達古，齊心擁進戲園裡去。
And the whole city was filled with confusion: and having caught Gaius and Aristarchus, men of Macedonia, Paul's companions in travel, they rushed with one accord into the theatre.

19:30    保羅想要進去，到百姓那裡，門徒卻不許他去。
And when Paul would have entered in unto the people, the disciples suffered him not.

19:31    還有亞細亞幾位首領，是保羅的朋友，打發人來勸他，不要冒險到戲園裡去。
And certain of the chief of Asia, which were his friends, sent unto him, desiring him that he would not adventure himself into the theatre.

19:32    聚集的人，紛紛亂亂，有喊叫這個的，有喊叫那個的，大半不知道為什麼聚集。
Some therefore cried one thing, and some another: for the assembly was confused; and the more part knew not wherefore they were come together.

19:33    有人把亞歷山大從眾人中帶出來，猶太人推他往前，亞歷山大就擺手，要向百姓分訴。
And they drew Alexander out of the multitude, the Jews putting him forward. And Alexander beckoned with the hand, and would have made his defence unto the people.

19:34    只因他們認出他是猶太人，就大家同聲喊著說，大哉以弗所人的亞底米阿。如此約有兩小時
But when they knew that he was a Jew, all with one voice about the space of two hours cried out, Great is Diana of the Ephesians.

19:35    那城裡的書記，安撫了眾人，就說，以弗所人哪，誰不知道以弗所人的城，是看守大亞底米的廟，和從宙斯那裡落下來的像呢。
And when the townclerk had appeased the people, he said, Ye men of Ephesus, what man is there that knoweth not how that the city of the Ephesians is a worshipper of the great goddess Diana, and of the image which fell down from Jupiter?

19:36    這事既是駁不倒的，你們就當安靜，不可造次。
Seeing then that these things cannot be spoken against, ye ought to be quiet, and to do nothing rashly.

19:37    你們把這些人帶來，他們並沒有偷竊廟中之物，也沒有謗？？我們的女神。
For ye have brought hither these men, which are neither robbers of churches, nor yet blasphemers of your goddess.

19:38    若是底米丟和他同行的人，有控告人的事，自有放告的日子。（或作自有公堂）也有方伯，可以彼此對告。
Wherefore if Demetrius, and the craftsmen which are with him, have a matter against any man, the law is open, and there are deputies: let them implead one another.

19:39    你們若問別的事，就可以照常例聚集斷定。
But if ye enquire any thing concerning other matters, it shall be determined in a lawful assembly.



19:40    今日的攪擾，本是無緣無故，我們難免被查問。論到這樣聚眾，我們也說不出所以然來。
For we are in danger to be called in question for this day's uproar, there being no cause whereby we may give an account of this concourse.

19:41    說了這話，便叫眾人散去。
And when he had thus spoken, he dismissed the assembly.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


20:1    亂定之後，保羅請門徒來，勸勉他們，就辭別起行，往馬其頓去。
And after the uproar was ceased, Paul called unto him the disciples, and embraced them, and departed for to go into Macedonia.

20:2    走遍了那一帶地方，用許多話勸勉門徒，（或作眾人）然後來到希臘。
And when he had gone over those parts, and had given them much exhortation, he came into Greece,

20:3    在那裡住了三個月，將要坐船往敘利亞去。猶太人設計要害他，他就定意從馬其頓回去。
And there abode three months. And when the Jews laid wait for him, as he was about to sail into Syria, he purposed to return through Macedonia.

20:4    同他到亞細亞去的，有庇哩亞人畢羅斯的兒子所巴特，帖撒羅尼迦人亞里達古，和西公都，還有特庇人該猶，並提摩太，又有亞細亞人推基古，和特羅非摩。
And there accompanied him into Asia Sopater of Berea; and of the Thessalonians, Aristarchus and Secundus; and Gaius of Derbe, and Timotheus; and of Asia, Tychicus and Trophimus.

20:5    這些人先走在特羅亞等候我們。
These going before tarried for us at Troas.

20:6    過了除酵的日子，我們從腓立比開船，五天到了特羅亞，和他們相會，在那裡住了七天。
And we sailed away from Philippi after the days of unleavened bread, and came unto them to Troas in five days; where we abode seven days.

20:7    七日的第一日，我們聚會擘餅的時候，保羅因為要次日起行，就與他們講論，直到半夜。
And upon the first day of the week, when the disciples came together to break bread, Paul preached unto them, ready to depart on the morrow; and continued his speech until midnight.

20:8    我們聚會的那座樓上，有些燈燭。
And there were many lights in the upper chamber, where they were gathered together.

20:9    有一個少年人，名叫猶推古，坐在窗臺上，睏倦沉睡。保羅講了多時，少年人睡熟了，就從三層樓上掉下去。扶起他來，已經死了。
And there sat in a window a certain young man named Eutychus, being fallen into a deep sleep: and as Paul was long preaching, he sunk down with sleep, and fell down from the third loft, and was taken up dead.

20:10    保羅下去，伏在他身上，抱著他，說，你們不要發慌，他的靈魂還在身上。
And Paul went down, and fell on him, and embracing him said, Trouble not yourselves; for his life is in him.

20:11    保羅又上去，擘餅，吃了，談論許久，直到天亮，這才走了。
When he therefore was come up again, and had broken bread, and eaten, and talked a long while, even till break of day, so he departed.

20:12    有人把那童子活活的領來，得的安慰不小。
And they brought the young man alive, and were not a little comforted.

20:13    我們先上船開往亞朔去，意思要在那裡接保羅。因為他是這樣安排的，他自己打算要步行。
And we went before to ship, and sailed unto Assos, there intending to take in Paul: for so had he appointed, minding himself to go afoot.

20:14    他既在亞朔與我們相會，我們就接他上船，來到米推利尼。
And when he met with us at Assos, we took him in, and came to Mitylene.

20:15    從那裡開船，次日到了基阿的對面。又次日，在撒摩靠岸。又次日，來到米利都。
And we sailed thence, and came the next day over against Chios; and the next day we arrived at Samos, and tarried at Trogyllium; and the next day we came to Miletus.

20:16    乃因保羅早已定意越過以弗所，免得在亞細亞耽延。他急忙前走，巴不得趕五旬節能到耶路撒冷。
For Paul had determined to sail by Ephesus, because he would not spend the time in Asia: for he hasted, if it were possible for him, to be at Jerusalem the day of Pentecost.

20:17    保羅從米利都打發人往以弗所去，請教會的長老來。
And from Miletus he sent to Ephesus, and called the elders of the church.

20:18    他們來了，保羅就說，你們知道，自從我到亞細亞的日子以來，在你們中間始終為人如何，
And when they were come to him, he said unto them, Ye know, from the first day that I came into Asia, after what manner I have been with you at all seasons,

20:19    服事主，凡事謙卑，眼中流淚，又因猶太人的謀害，經歷試煉。
Serving the LORD with all humility of mind, and with many tears, and temptations, which befell me by the lying in wait of the Jews:

20:20    你們也知道，凡與你們有益的，我沒有一樣避諱不說的。或在眾人面前，或在各人家裡，我都教導你們。
And how I kept back nothing that was profitable unto you, but have shewed you, and have taught you publickly, and from house to house,

20:21    又對猶太人，和希臘人，證明當向神悔改，信靠我主耶穌基督。
Testifying both to the Jews, and also to the Greeks, repentance toward God, and faith toward our Lord Jesus Christ.

20:22    現在我往耶路撒冷去，心甚迫切，（原文作心被捆綁）不知道在那裡要遇見什麼事。
And now, behold, I go bound in the spirit unto Jerusalem, not knowing the things that shall befall me there:

20:23    但知道聖靈在各城裡向我指證，說，有捆鎖與患難等待我。
Save that the Holy Ghost witnesseth in every city, saying that bonds and afflictions abide me.

20:24    我卻不以性命為念，也不看為寶貴，只要行完我的路程，成就我從主耶穌所領受的職事，證明神恩惠的福音。
But none of these things move me, neither count I my life dear unto myself, so that I might finish my course with joy, and the ministry, which I have received of the Lord Jesus, to testify the gospel of the grace of God.

20:25    我素常在你們中間來往，傳講神國的道，如今我曉得你們以後都不得再見我的面了。
And now, behold, I know that ye all, among whom I have gone preaching the kingdom of God, shall see my face no more.

20:26    所以我今日向你們證明，你們中間無論何人死亡，罪不在我身上。（原文作我於眾人的血是潔淨的）。
Wherefore I take you to record this day, that I am pure from the blood of all men.

20:27    因為神的旨意，我並沒有一樣避諱不傳給你們的。
For I have not shunned to declare unto you all the counsel of God.

20:28    聖靈立你們作全群的監督，你們就當為自己謹慎，也為全群謹慎，牧養神的教會，就是他用自己血所買來的。（或作救贖）
Take heed therefore unto yourselves, and to all the flock, over the which the Holy Ghost hath made you overseers, to feed the church of God, which he hath purchased with his own blood.

20:29    我知道我去之後，必有凶暴的豺狼，進入你們中間，不愛惜羊群。
For I know this, that after my departing shall grievous wolves enter in among you, not sparing the flock.

20:30    就是你們中間，也必有人起來，說悖謬的話，要引誘門徒跟從他們。
Also of your own selves shall men arise, speaking perverse things, to draw away disciples after them.

20:31    所以你們應當儆醒，記念我三年之久，晝夜不住的流淚，勸戒你們各人。
Therefore watch, and remember, that by the space of three years I ceased not to warn every one night and day with tears.

20:32    如今我把你們交託神，和他恩惠的道。這道能建立你們，叫你們和一切成聖的人同得基業。
And now, brethren, I commend you to God, and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up, and to give you an inheritance among all them which are sanctified.

20:33    我未曾貪圖一個人的金，銀，衣服。
I have coveted no man's silver, or gold, or apparel.

20:34    我這兩隻手，常供給我和同人的需用，這是你們自己知道的。
Yea, ye yourselves know, that these hands have ministered unto my necessities, and to them that were with me.

20:35    我凡事給你們作榜樣，叫你們知道，應當這樣勞苦，扶助軟弱的人，又當記念主耶穌的話，說，施比受更為有福。
I have shewed you all things, how that so labouring ye ought to support the weak, and to remember the words of the Lord Jesus, how he said, It is more blessed to give than to receive.

20:36    保羅說完了這話，就跪下同眾人禱告。
And when he had thus spoken, he kneeled down, and prayed with them all.

20:37    眾人痛哭，抱著保羅的頸項，和他親嘴。
And they all wept sore, and fell on Paul's neck, and kissed him,

20:38    叫他們最傷心的，就是他說，以後不能再見我的面那句話。於是送他上船去了。
Sorrowing most of all for the words which he spake, that they should see his face no more. And they accompanied him unto the ship.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


21:1    我們離別了眾人，就開船一直行到哥士。第二天到了羅底，從那裡到帕大喇。
And it came to pass, that after we were gotten from them, and had launched, we came with a straight course unto Coos, and the day following unto Rhodes, and from thence unto Patara:

21:2    遇見一隻船，要往腓尼基去，就上船起行。
And finding a ship sailing over unto Phenicia, we went aboard, and set forth.

21:3    望見塞普勒斯，就從南邊行過，往敘利亞去，我們就在推羅上岸。因為船要在那裡卸貨。
Now when we had discovered Cyprus, we left it on the left hand, and sailed into Syria, and landed at Tyre: for there the ship was to unlade her burden.

21:4    找著了門徒，就在那裡住了七天。他們被聖靈感動，對保羅說，不要上耶路撒冷去。
And finding disciples, we tarried there seven days: who said to Paul through the Spirit, that he should not go up to Jerusalem.

21:5    過了這幾天，我們就起身前行。他們眾人同妻子兒女，送我們到城外，我們都跪在岸上禱告，彼此辭別。
And when we had accomplished those days, we departed and went our way; and they all brought us on our way, with wives and children, till we were out of the city: and we kneeled down on the shore, and prayed.

21:6    我們上了船，他們就回家去了。
And when we had taken our leave one of another, we took ship; and they returned home again.

21:7    我們從推羅行盡了水路，來到多利買，就問那裡的弟兄安，和他們同住了一天。
And when we had finished our course from Tyre, we came to Ptolemais, and saluted the brethren, and abode with them one day.

21:8    第二天，我們離開那裡，來到凱撒利亞。就進了傳福音的腓利家，和他同住。他是那七個執事裡的一個。
And the next day we that were of Paul's company departed, and came unto Caesarea: and we entered into the house of Philip the evangelist, which was one of the seven; and abode with him.

21:9    他有四個女兒，都是處女，是說預言的。
And the same man had four daughters, virgins, which did prophesy.

21:10    我們在那裡多住了幾天，有一個先知，名叫亞迦布，從猶太下來。
And as we tarried there many days, there came down from Judaea a certain prophet, named Agabus.

21:11    到了我們這裡，就拿保羅的腰帶，捆上自己的手腳，說，聖靈說，猶太人在耶路撒冷，要如此捆綁這腰帶的主人，把他交給外邦人手裡。
And when he was come unto us, he took Paul's girdle, and bound his own hands and feet, and said, Thus saith the Holy Ghost, So shall the Jews at Jerusalem bind the man that owneth this girdle, and shall deliver him into the hands of the Gentiles.

21:12    我們和那本地的人，聽見這話，都苦勸保羅不要上耶路撒冷去。
And when we heard these things, both we, and they of that place, besought him not to go up to Jerusalem.

21:13    保羅說，你們為什麼這樣痛哭，使我心碎呢。我為主耶穌的名，不但被人捆綁，就是死在耶路撒冷，也是願意的。
Then Paul answered, What mean ye to weep and to break mine heart? for I am ready not to be bound only, but also to die at Jerusalem for the name of the Lord Jesus.

21:14    保羅既不聽勸，我們便住口了，只說，願主的旨意成就便是了。
And when he would not be persuaded, we ceased, saying, The will of the Lord be done.

21:15    過了幾日，我們收拾行李上耶路撒冷去。
And after those days we took up our carriages, and went up to Jerusalem.

21:16    有凱撒利亞的幾個門徒和我們同去，帶我們到一個久為（久為或作老）門徒的家裡，叫我們與他同住，他名叫拿孫，是塞普勒斯人。
There went with us also certain of the disciples of Caesarea, and brought with them one Mnason of Cyprus, an old disciple, with whom we should lodge.

21:17    到了耶路撒冷，弟兄們歡歡喜喜的接待我們。
And when we were come to Jerusalem, the brethren received us gladly.

21:18    第二天，保羅同我們去見雅各。長老們也都在那裡。
And the day following Paul went in with us unto James; and all the elders were present.

21:19    保羅問了他們安，便將神用他傳教，在外邦人中間所行之事，一一的述說了。
And when he had saluted them, he declared particularly what things God had wrought among the Gentiles by his ministry.

21:20    他們聽見，就歸榮耀與神，對保羅說，兄臺，你看猶太人中信主的有多少萬，並且都為律法熱心。
And when they heard it, they glorified the Lord, and said unto him, Thou seest, brother, how many thousands of Jews there are which believe; and they are all zealous of the law:

21:21    他們聽見人說，你教訓一切在外邦的猶太人，離棄摩西，對他們說，不要給孩子行割禮，也不要遵行條規。
And they are informed of thee, that thou teachest all the Jews which are among the Gentiles to forsake Moses, saying that they ought not to circumcise their children, neither to walk after the customs.

21:22    眾人必聽見你來了，這可怎嗎辦呢。
What is it therefore? the multitude must needs come together: for they will hear that thou art come.

21:23    你就照著我們的話行吧，我們這裡有四個人，都有願在身。
Do therefore this that we say to thee: We have four men which have a vow on them;

21:24    你帶他們去，與他們一同行潔淨的禮，替他們拿出規費，叫他們得以剃頭。這樣，眾人就可知道，先前所聽見你的事都是虛的。並可知道，你自己為人，循規蹈矩，遵行律法。
Them take, and purify thyself with them, and be at charges with them, that they may shave their heads: and all may know that those things, whereof they were informed concerning thee, are nothing; but that thou thyself also walkest orderly, and keepest the law.

21:25    至於信主的外邦人，我們已經寫信擬定，叫他們謹忌那祭偶像之物，和血，並勒死的牲畜，與姦淫。
As touching the Gentiles which believe, we have written and concluded that they observe no such thing, save only that they keep themselves from things offered to idols, and from blood, and from strangled, and from fornication.

21:26    於是保羅帶著那四個人，第二天與他們一同行了潔淨的禮，進了殿，報明潔淨的日期滿足。只等祭司為他們各人獻祭。
Then Paul took the men, and the next day purifying himself with them entered into the temple, to signify the accomplishment of the days of purification, until that an offering should be offered for every one of them.

21:27    那七日將完，從亞細亞來的猶太人，看見保羅在殿裡，就聳動了眾人，下手拿他，
And when the seven days were almost ended, the Jews which were of Asia, when they saw him in the temple, stirred up all the people, and laid hands on him,

21:28    喊叫說，以色列人來幫助，這就是在各處教訓眾人糟踐我們百姓，和律法，並這地方的。他又帶著希臘人進殿，汙穢了這聖地。
Crying out, Men of Israel, help: This is the man, that teacheth all men every where against the people, and the law, and this place: and further brought Greeks also into the temple, and hath polluted this holy place.

21:29    這話是因他們曾看見以弗所人特羅非摩，同保羅在城裡，以為保羅帶他進了殿。
(For they had seen before with him in the city Trophimus an Ephesian, whom they supposed that Paul had brought into the temple.)

21:30    合城都震動，百姓一齊跑來，拿住保羅，拉他出殿，殿門立刻都關了。
And all the city was moved, and the people ran together: and they took Paul, and drew him out of the temple: and forthwith the doors were shut.

21:31    他們正想要殺他，有人報信給營裡的千夫長說，耶路撒冷合城都亂了。
And as they went about to kill him, tidings came unto the chief captain of the band, that all Jerusalem was in an uproar.

21:32    千夫長立時帶著兵丁，和幾個百夫長，跑下去到他們那裡。他們見了千夫長和兵丁，就止住不打保羅。
Who immediately took soldiers and centurions, and ran down unto them: and when they saw the chief captain and the soldiers, they left beating of Paul.

21:33    於是千夫長上前拿住他，吩咐用兩條鐵鏈捆鎖。又問他是什麼人，作的是什麼事。
Then the chief captain came near, and took him, and commanded him to be bound with two chains; and demanded who he was, and what he had done.

21:34    眾人有喊叫這個的，有喊叫那個的。千夫長因為這樣亂囔，得不著實情，就吩咐人把保羅帶進營樓去。
And some cried one thing, some another, among the multitude: and when he could not know the certainty for the tumult, he commanded him to be carried into the castle.

21:35    到了臺階，眾人擠得兄猛，兵丁只得將保羅抬起來。
And when he came upon the stairs, so it was, that he was borne of the soldiers for the violence of the people.

21:36    眾人跟在後面，喊著說，除掉他。
For the multitude of the people followed after, crying, Away with him.

21:37    將要帶他進營樓，保羅對千夫長說，我對你說句話，可以不可以。他說，你懂得希臘話嗎。
And as Paul was to be led into the castle, he said unto the chief captain, May I speak unto thee? Who said, Canst thou speak Greek?

21:38    你莫非是從前作亂，帶領四千凶徒，往曠野去的那埃及人嗎。
Art not thou that Egyptian, which before these days madest an uproar, and leddest out into the wilderness four thousand men that were murderers?

21:39    保羅說，我本是猶太人，生在基利家的大數，並不是無名小城的人，求你準我對百姓說話。
But Paul said, I am a man which am a Jew of Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, a citizen of no mean city: and, I beseech thee, suffer me to speak unto the people.

21:40    千夫長準了，保羅就站在臺階上，向百姓擺手，他們都靜默無聲，保羅使用希伯來話對他們說。
And when he had given him licence, Paul stood on the stairs, and beckoned with the hand unto the people. And when there was made a great silence, he spake unto them in the Hebrew tongue, saying,



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


22:1    諸位父兄請聽，我現在對你們分訴。
Men, brethren, and fathers, hear ye my defence which I make now unto you.

22:2    眾人聽他說的是希伯來話，就更加安靜了。
(And when they heard that he spake in the Hebrew tongue to them, they kept the more silence: and he saith,)

22:3    保羅說，我原是猶太人，生在基利家的大數，長在這城裡，在迦瑪列門下，按著我們祖宗嚴緊的律法受教，熱心事奉神，像你們眾人今日一樣。
I am verily a man which am a Jew, born in Tarsus, a city in Cilicia, yet brought up in this city at the feet of Gamaliel, and taught according to the perfect manner of the law of the fathers, and was zealous toward God, as ye all are this day.

22:4    我也曾逼迫奉這道的人，直到死地，無論男女都鎖拿下。
And I persecuted this way unto the death, binding and delivering into prisons both men and women.

22:5    這是大祭司和眾長老都可以給我作見證的。我又領了他們達與兄弟的書信，往大馬士革去，要把在那裡奉這道的人鎖拿，帶到耶路撒冷受刑。
As also the high priest doth bear me witness, and all the estate of the elders: from whom also I received letters unto the brethren, and went to Damascus, to bring them which were there bound unto Jerusalem, for to be punished.

22:6    我將到大馬士革，正走的時後，約在晌午，忽然從天上發大光，四面照著我。
And it came to pass, that, as I made my journey, and was come nigh unto Damascus about noon, suddenly there shone from heaven a great light round about me.

22:7    我就仆倒在地，聽見有聲音對我說，掃羅，掃羅，你為什麼逼迫我。
And I fell unto the ground, and heard a voice saying unto me, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me?

22:8    我回答說，主阿，你是誰。他說，我就是你所逼迫的拿撒勒人耶穌。
And I answered, Who art thou, Lord? And he said unto me, I am Jesus of Nazareth, whom thou persecutest.

22:9    與我同行的人，看見了那光，卻沒有聽明那位對我說話的聲音。
And they that were with me saw indeed the light, and were afraid; but they heard not the voice of him that spake to me.

22:10    我說，主阿，我當作什麼。主說，起來，進大馬士革去，在那裡要將所派你作的一切事，告訴你。
And I said, What shall I do, LORD? And the Lord said unto me, Arise, and go into Damascus; and there it shall be told thee of all things which are appointed for thee to do.

22:11    我因那光的榮耀，不能看見，同行的人，就拉著我手進了大馬士革。
And when I could not see for the glory of that light, being led by the hand of them that were with me, I came into Damascus.

22:12    那裡有一個人，名叫亞拿尼亞，按著律法是虔誠人，為一切住在那裡的猶太人所稱讚。
And one Ananias, a devout man according to the law, having a good report of all the Jews which dwelt there,

22:13    他來見我，站在旁邊，對我說，兄弟掃羅，你可以看見。我當時往上一看，就看見了他。
Came unto me, and stood, and said unto me, Brother Saul, receive thy sight. And the same hour I looked up upon him.



22:14    他又說，我們祖宗的神，揀選了你，叫你明白他的旨意，又得見那義者，聽他口中所出的聲音。
And he said, The God of our fathers hath chosen thee, that thou shouldest know his will, and see that Just One, and shouldest hear the voice of his mouth.

22:15    因為你要將所看見的，所聽見的，對著萬人為他作見證。
For thou shalt be his witness unto all men of what thou hast seen and heard.

22:16    現在你為什麼耽延呢，起來，求告他的名受洗，洗去你的罪。
And now why tarriest thou? arise, and be baptized, and wash away thy sins, calling on the name of the Lord.

22:17    後來我回到耶路撒冷，在殿裡禱告的時候，魂遊象外，
And it came to pass, that, when I was come again to Jerusalem, even while I prayed in the temple, I was in a trance;

22:18    看見主向我說，你趕緊的離開耶路撒冷，不可遲延，因你為我作的見證，這裡的人，必不領受。
And saw him saying unto me, Make haste, and get thee quickly out of Jerusalem: for they will not receive thy testimony concerning me.

22:19    我就說，主阿，他們知道我從前把你的人，收在監裡，又在各會堂裡鞭打他們。
And I said, Lord, they know that I imprisoned and beat in every synagogue them that believed on thee:

22:20    並且你的見證人司提反，被害流血的時候，我也站在旁邊歡喜。又看守害死他之人的衣裳。
And when the blood of thy martyr Stephen was shed, I also was standing by, and consenting unto his death, and kept the raiment of them that slew him.

22:21    主向我說，你去吧。我要差你遠遠的往外邦人那裡去。
And he said unto me, Depart: for I will send thee far hence unto the Gentiles.

22:22    眾人聽他說到這句話，就高聲說，這樣的人，從世上除掉他吧。他是不當活著的。
And they gave him audience unto this word, and then lifted up their voices, and said, Away with such a fellow from the earth: for it is not fit that he should live.

22:23    眾人喧囔，摔掉衣裳，把塵土向空中揚起來。
And as they cried out, and cast off their clothes, and threw dust into the air,

22:24    千夫長就吩咐將保羅帶進營樓去，叫人用鞭子拷問他，要知道他們向他這樣喧囔，是為什麼緣故。
The chief captain commanded him to be brought into the castle, and bade that he should be examined by scourging; that he might know wherefore they cried so against him.

22:25    剛用皮條捆上，保羅對旁邊站著的百夫長說，人是羅馬人，又沒有定罪，你們就鞭打他，有這個例嗎。
And as they bound him with thongs, Paul said unto the centurion that stood by, Is it lawful for you to scourge a man that is a Roman, and uncondemned?

22:26    百夫長聽見這話，就去見千夫長，告訴他說，你要作什麼。這人是羅馬人。
When the centurion heard that, he went and told the chief captain, saying, Take heed what thou doest: for this man is a Roman.

22:27    千夫長就來問保羅說，你告訴我，你是羅馬人嗎。保羅說，是。
Then the chief captain came, and said unto him, Tell me, art thou a Roman? He said, Yea.

22:28    千夫長說，我用許多銀子，才入了羅馬的民藉。保羅說，我生來就是。
And the chief captain answered, With a great sum obtained I this freedom. And Paul said, But I was free born.

22:29    於是那些要拷問保羅的人，就離開他去了。千夫長繼知道他是羅馬人，又因為捆綁了他，也害怕了。
Then straightway they departed from him which should have examined him: and the chief captain also was afraid, after he knew that he was a Roman, and because he had bound him.



22:30    第二天，千夫長為要知道猶太人控告保羅的實情，便解開他，吩咐祭司長和全公會的人，都聚集，將保羅帶下來，叫他站在他們面前。
On the morrow, because he would have known the certainty wherefore he was accused of the Jews, he loosed him from his bands, and commanded the chief priests and all their council to appear, and brought Paul down, and set him before them.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


23:1    保羅定睛看著公的人，說，弟兄們，我在神面前行事為人，都是憑著良心，直到今日。
And Paul, earnestly beholding the council, said, Men and brethren, I have lived in all good conscience before God until this day.

23:2    大祭司亞拿尼亞，就吩咐旁邊站著的人打他的嘴。
And the high priest Ananias commanded them that stood by him to smite him on the mouth.

23:3    保羅對他說，你這粉飾的牆。神要打你。你坐堂為的是按律法審問我，你竟違背律法，吩咐人打我嗎。
Then said Paul unto him, God shall smite thee, thou whited wall: for sittest thou to judge me after the law, and commandest me to be smitten contrary to the law?

23:4    站在旁邊的人說，你辱罵神的大祭司嗎。
And they that stood by said, Revilest thou God's high priest?

23:5    保羅說，弟兄們，我不曉得他是大祭司。經上記著說，不可毀謗你百姓的官長。
Then said Paul, I wist not, brethren, that he was the high priest: for it is written, Thou shalt not speak evil of the ruler of thy people.

23:6    保羅看出大眾，一半是撒都該人，一半是法利賽人，就在公會中大聲說，弟兄們，我是法利賽人，也是法利賽人的子孫。我現在受審問，是為盼望死人復活。
But when Paul perceived that the one part were Sadducees, and the other Pharisees, he cried out in the council, Men and brethren, I am a Pharisee, the son of a Pharisee: of the hope and resurrection of the dead I am called in question.

23:7    說了這話，法利賽人和撒都該人，就爭論起來，會眾分為兩黨。
And when he had so said, there arose a dissension between the Pharisees and the Sadducees: and the multitude was divided.

23:8    因為撒都該人說，沒有復活，也沒有天使，和鬼魂，法利賽人卻說，兩樣都有。
For the Sadducees say that there is no resurrection, neither angel, nor spirit: but the Pharisees confess both.

23:9    於是大大的喧囔起來。有幾個法利賽黨的文士站起來，爭辯說，我們看不出這人有什麼惡處，倘若有鬼魂，或是天使，對他說過話，怎嗎樣呢。
And there arose a great cry: and the scribes that were of the Pharisees' part arose, and strove, saying, We find no evil in this man: but if a spirit or an angel hath spoken to him, let us not fight against God.

23:10    那時大起爭吵，千夫長恐怕保羅被他們扯碎了，就吩咐兵丁下去，把他從眾人當中搶出來，帶進營樓去。
And when there arose a great dissension, the chief captain, fearing lest Paul should have been pulled in pieces of them, commanded the soldiers to go down, and to take him by force from among them, and to bring him into the castle.

23:11    當夜，主站在保羅旁邊說，放心吧，你怎樣在耶路撒冷為我作見證，也必怎樣在羅馬為我作見證。
And the night following the Lord stood by him, and said, Be of good cheer, Paul: for as thou hast testified of me in Jerusalem, so must thou bear witness also at Rome.

23:12    到了天亮，猶太人同謀起誓，說，若不先殺保羅，就不吃不喝。
And when it was day, certain of the Jews banded together, and bound themselves under a curse, saying that they would neither eat nor drink till they had killed Paul.

23:13    這樣同心起誓的，有四十多人。
And they were more than forty which had made this conspiracy.

23:14    他們來見祭司長和長老說，我們已經起了一個大誓，若不先殺保羅，就不吃什麼。
And they came to the chief priests and elders, and said, We have bound ourselves under a great curse, that we will eat nothing until we have slain Paul.

23:15    現在你們和公會要知會千夫長，叫他帶下保羅到你們這裡來，假作要詳細察考他的事。我們已經豫備好了，不等他來到跟前就殺他。
Now therefore ye with the council signify to the chief captain that he bring him down unto you to morrow, as though ye would enquire something more perfectly concerning him: and we, or ever he come near, are ready to kill him.

23:16    保羅的外甥，聽見他們設下埋伏，就來到營樓裡告訴保羅。
And when Paul's sister's son heard of their lying in wait, he went and entered into the castle, and told Paul.

23:17    保羅請一個百夫長來，說，你領這少年人去見千夫長，他有事告訴他。
Then Paul called one of the centurions unto him, and said, Bring this young man unto the chief captain: for he hath a certain thing to tell him.

23:18    於是把他領去見千夫長說，被囚的保羅請我到他那裡，求我領這少年人來見你。他有事告訴你。
So he took him, and brought him to the chief captain, and said, Paul the prisoner called me unto him, and prayed me to bring this young man unto thee, who hath something to say unto thee.

23:19    千夫長就拉著他的手，走到一旁，私下問他說，你有什麼事告訴我呢。
Then the chief captain took him by the hand, and went with him aside privately, and asked him, What is that thou hast to tell me?

23:20    他說，猶太人已經約定，要求你明天帶下保羅到公會裡去，假作要詳細查問他的事。
And he said, The Jews have agreed to desire thee that thou wouldest bring down Paul to morrow into the council, as though they would enquire somewhat of him more perfectly.

23:21    你切不要隨從他們，因為他們有四十多人埋伏，已經起誓，說，若不先殺保羅，就不吃不喝。現在豫備好了，只等你應允。
But do not thou yield unto them: for there lie in wait for him of them more than forty men, which have bound themselves with an oath, that they will neither eat nor drink till they have killed him: and now are they ready, looking for a promise from thee.

23:22    於是千夫長打發少年人走，囑咐他說，不要告訴人你將這事報告我了。
So the chief captain then let the young man depart, and charged him, See thou tell no man that thou hast shewed these things to me.

23:23    千夫長便叫了兩個百夫長來，說，豫備步兵二百，馬兵七十，長槍手二百，今夜亥初往凱撒利亞去。
And he called unto him two centurions, saying, Make ready two hundred soldiers to go to Caesarea, and horsemen threescore and ten, and spearmen two hundred, at the third hour of the night;

23:24    也要豫備牲口叫保羅騎上，護送到巡撫腓力斯那裡去。
And provide them beasts, that they may set Paul on, and bring him safe unto Felix the governor.

23:25    千夫長又寫了文書，
And he wrote a letter after this manner:

23:26    大略說，革老丟呂西亞，請巡撫腓力斯大人安。
Claudius Lysias unto the most excellent governor Felix sendeth greeting.

23:27    這人被猶太人拿住，將要殺害，我得知他是羅馬人，就帶兵丁下去救他出來。
This man was taken of the Jews, and should have been killed of them: then came I with an army, and rescued him, having understood that he was a Roman.

23:28    因要知道他們告他的緣故，我就帶他下到他們的公會去。
And when I would have known the cause wherefore they accused him, I brought him forth into their council:

23:29    便查知他被告，是因他們律法的辯論，並沒有什麼該死該綁的罪名。
Whom I perceived to be accused of questions of their law, but to have nothing laid to his charge worthy of death or of bonds.

23:30    後來有人把要害他的計謀告訴我，我就立時解他到你那裡去，又吩咐告他的人，在你面前告他。（有古卷在此有願你平安）
And when it was told me how that the Jews laid wait for the man, I sent straightway to thee, and gave commandment to his accusers also to say before thee what they had against him. Farewell.

23:31    於是兵丁照所吩咐他們的，將保羅夜裡帶到安提帕底。
Then the soldiers, as it was commanded them, took Paul, and brought him by night to Antipatris.

23:32    第二天，讓馬兵護送，他們就回營樓去。
On the morrow they left the horsemen to go with him, and returned to the castle:

23:33    馬兵來到凱撒利亞，把文書呈給巡撫，便叫保羅站在他面前。
Who, when they came to Caesarea, and delivered the epistle to the governor, presented Paul also before him.

23:34    巡撫看了文書，問保羅是那省的人，既曉得他是基利家人，
And when the governor had read the letter, he asked of what province he was. And when he understood that he was of Cilicia;

23:35    就說，等告你的人來到，我要細聽你的事，便吩咐人把他看守在希律的衙門裡。
I will hear thee, said he, when thine accusers are also come. And he commanded him to be kept in Herod's judgment hall.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


24:1    過了五天，大祭司亞拿尼亞，同幾個長老，和一個辯士帖土羅，下來，向巡撫控告保羅。
And after five days Ananias the high priest descended with the elders, and with a certain orator named Tertullus, who informed the governor against Paul.

24:2    保羅被提了來，帖土羅就告他說，
And when he was called forth, Tertullus began to accuse him, saying, Seeing that by thee we enjoy great quietness, and that very worthy deeds are done unto this nation by thy providence,

24:3    腓利斯大人，我們因你得以大享太平，並且這一國的弊病，因著你的先見，得以更正了。我們隨時隨地，滿心感謝不盡。
We accept it always, and in all places, most noble Felix, with all thankfulness.

24:4    惟恐多說，你嫌煩絮，只求你寬容聽我們說幾句話。
Notwithstanding, that I be not further tedious unto thee, I pray thee that thou wouldest hear us of thy clemency a few words.

24:5    我們看這個人，如同瘟疫一般，是鼓動普天下眾猶太人生亂的，又是拿撒勒教黨裡的一個頭目。
For we have found this man a pestilent fellow, and a mover of sedition among all the Jews throughout the world, and a ringleader of the sect of the Nazarenes:

24:6    連聖殿他也想要汙穢。我們把他捉住了。（有古卷在此有要按我們的律法審問。
Who also hath gone about to profane the temple: whom we took, and would have judged according to our law.

24:7    不料千夫長呂西亞前來甚是強橫從我們手中把他奪去，吩咐告他的人到你這裡來）。
But the chief captain Lysias came upon us, and with great violence took him away out of our hands,



24:8    你自己究問他，就可以知道我們告他的一切事了。
Commanding his accusers to come unto thee: by examining of whom thyself mayest take knowledge of all these things, whereof we accuse him.

24:9    眾猶太人也隨著告他說，事情誠然是這樣。
And the Jews also assented, saying that these things were so.

24:10    巡撫點頭叫保羅說話，他就說，我知道你在這國裡斷事多年，所以我樂意為自己分訴。
Then Paul, after that the governor had beckoned unto him to speak, answered, Forasmuch as I know that thou hast been of many years a judge unto this nation, I do the more cheerfully answer for myself:

24:11    你查問就可以知道，從我上耶路撒冷禮拜，到今日，不過有十二天。
Because that thou mayest understand, that there are yet but twelve days since I went up to Jerusalem for to worship.

24:12    他們並沒有看見我在殿裡，或是在會堂裡，或是在城裡，和人辯論，聳動眾人。
And they neither found me in the temple disputing with any man, neither raising up the people, neither in the synagogues, nor in the city:

24:13    他們現在所告我的事，並不能對你證實了。
Neither can they prove the things whereof they now accuse me.

24:14    但有一件事，我向你承認，就是他們所稱為異端的道，我正按著那道事奉我祖宗的神，又信合乎律法的，和先知書上一切所記載的。
But this I confess unto thee, that after the way which they call heresy, so worship I the God of my fathers, believing all things which are written in the law and in the prophets:

24:15    並且靠著神，盼望死人，無論善惡，都要復活，就是他們自己也有這個盼望。
And have hope toward God, which they themselves also allow, that there shall be a resurrection of the dead, both of the just and unjust.

24:16    我因此自己勉勵，對神，對人，常存無虧的良心。
And herein do I exercise myself, to have always a conscience void of offence toward God, and toward men.

24:17    過了幾年，我帶著賙濟本國的捐項和供獻的物上去。
Now after many years I came to bring alms to my nation, and offerings.

24:18    正獻的時候，他們看見我在殿裡已經潔淨了，並沒有聚眾，也沒有吵囔。惟有幾個從亞細亞來的猶太人。
Whereupon certain Jews from Asia found me purified in the temple, neither with multitude, nor with tumult.

24:19    他們若有告我的事，就應當到你面前來告我。
Who ought to have been here before thee, and object, if they had ought against me.

24:20    既或不然，這些人，若看出我站在公會前，有妄為的地方，他們自己也可以說明。
Or else let these same here say, if they have found any evil doing in me, while I stood before the council,

24:21    縱然有，也不過一句話，就是我站在他們中間大聲說，我今日在你們面前受審，是為死人復活的道理
Except it be for this one voice, that I cried standing among them, Touching the resurrection of the dead I am called in question by you this day.

24:22    腓力斯本是詳細曉得這道，就支吾他們說，且等千夫長呂西亞下來，我要審斷你們的事。
And when Felix heard these things, having more perfect knowledge of that way, he deferred them, and said, When Lysias the chief captain shall come down, I will know the uttermost of your matter.

24:23    於是吩咐百夫長看守保羅並且寬待他，也不攔阻他的親友來供給他。
And he commanded a centurion to keep Paul, and to let him have liberty, and that he should forbid none of his acquaintance to minister or come unto him.

24:24    過了幾天，腓力斯和他夫人猶太的女子土西拉，一同來到，就叫了保羅來，聽他講論信基督耶穌的道。
And after certain days, when Felix came with his wife Drusilla, which was a Jewess, he sent for Paul, and heard him concerning the faith in Christ.

24:25    保羅講論公義，節制，和將來的審判，腓力斯甚覺恐懼，說，你暫且去吧，等我得便再叫你來。
And as he reasoned of righteousness, temperance, and judgment to come, Felix trembled, and answered, Go thy way for this time; when I have a convenient season, I will call for thee.

24:26    腓力斯又指望保羅送他銀錢，所以屢次叫他來，和他談論。
He hoped also that money should have been given him of Paul, that he might loose him: wherefore he sent for him the oftener, and communed with him.

24:27    過了兩年，波求非斯都接了腓力斯的任，腓力斯要討猶太人的喜歡，就留保羅在監裡。
But after two years Porcius Festus came into Felix' room: and Felix, willing to shew the Jews a pleasure, left Paul bound.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


25:1    非斯都到了任，過了三天，就從凱撒利亞上耶路撒冷去。
Now when Festus was come into the province, after three days he ascended from Caesarea to Jerusalem.



25:2    祭司長，和猶太人的首領，向他控告保羅，
Then the high priest and the chief of the Jews informed him against Paul, and besought him,

25:3    又央告他，求他的情，將保羅提到耶路撒冷來。他們要在路上埋伏殺害他。
And desired favour against him, that he would send for him to Jerusalem, laying wait in the way to kill him.

25:4    非斯都卻回答說，保羅押在凱撒利亞，我自己快要往那裡去。
But Festus answered, that Paul should be kept at Caesarea, and that he himself would depart shortly thither.

25:5    又說，你們中間有權勢的人，與我一同下去，那人若有什麼不是，就可以告他。
Let them therefore, said he, which among you are able, go down with me, and accuse this man, if there be any wickedness in him.

25:6    非斯都在他們那裡，住了不過十天八天，就下凱撒利亞去。第二天坐堂，吩咐將保羅提上來。
And when he had tarried among them more than ten days, he went down unto Caesarea; and the next day sitting on the judgment seat commanded Paul to be brought.

25:7    保羅來了，那些從耶路撒冷下來的猶太人，周圍站著，將許多重大的事控告他，都是不能證實的。
And when he was come, the Jews which came down from Jerusalem stood round about, and laid many and grievous complaints against Paul, which they could not prove.

25:8    保羅分訴說，無論猶太人的律法，或是聖殿，或是凱撒，我都沒有干犯。
While he answered for himself, Neither against the law of the Jews, neither against the temple, nor yet against Caesar, have I offended any thing at all.

25:9    但非斯都要討猶太人的喜歡，就問保羅說，你願意上耶路撒冷去，在那裡聽我審斷這事嗎。
But Festus, willing to do the Jews a pleasure, answered Paul, and said, Wilt thou go up to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these things before me?

25:10    保羅說，我站在凱撒的堂前，這就是我應當受審的地方。我向猶太人並沒有行過什麼不義的事，這也是你明明知道的。
Then said Paul, I stand at Caesar's judgment seat, where I ought to be judged: to the Jews have I done no wrong, as thou very well knowest.

25:11    我若行了不義的事，犯了什麼該死的罪，就是死，我也不辭。他們所告我的事若都不實，就沒有人可以把我交給他們。我要上告於凱撒。
For if I be an offender, or have committed any thing worthy of death, I refuse not to die: but if there be none of these things whereof these accuse me, no man may deliver me unto them. I appeal unto Caesar.

25:12    非斯都和議會商量了，就說，你既上告於凱撒，可以往凱撒那裡去。
Then Festus, when he had conferred with the council, answered, Hast thou appealed unto Caesar? unto Caesar shalt thou go.

25:13    過了些日子，亞基帕王，和百尼基氏，來到凱撒利亞，問非斯都安。
And after certain days king Agrippa and Bernice came unto Caesarea to salute Festus.

25:14    在那裡住了多日，非斯都將保羅的事告訴王，說，這裡有一個人，是腓力斯留在監裡的。
And when they had been there many days, Festus declared Paul's cause unto the king, saying, There is a certain man left in bonds by Felix:

25:15    我在耶路撒冷的時候，祭司長和猶太的長老，將他的事稟報了我，求我定他的罪。
About whom, when I was at Jerusalem, the chief priests and the elders of the Jews informed me, desiring to have judgment against him.

25:16    我對他們說，無論什麼人，被告還沒有和原告對質，未得機會分訴所告他的事，就先定他的罪，這不是羅馬人的條例。
To whom I answered, It is not the manner of the Romans to deliver any man to die, before that he which is accused have the accusers face to face, and have licence to answer for himself concerning the crime laid against him.

25:17    及至他們都來到這裡，我就不耽延，第二天便坐堂，吩咐把那人提上來。
Therefore, when they were come hither, without any delay on the morrow I sat on the judgment seat, and commanded the man to be brought forth.

25:18    告他的人站著告他。所告的，並沒有我所逆料的那等惡事。
Against whom when the accusers stood up, they brought none accusation of such things as I supposed:

25:19    不過是有幾樣辯論，為他們自己敬鬼神的事，又為一個人名叫耶穌，是已經死了，保羅卻說他是活著的。
But had certain questions against him of their own superstition, and of one Jesus, which was dead, whom Paul affirmed to be alive.

25:20    這些事當怎樣究問，我心裡作難。我以問他說，你願意上耶路撒冷去，在那裡為這些事聽審嗎。
And because I doubted of such manner of questions, I asked him whether he would go to Jerusalem, and there be judged of these matters.

25:21    但保羅求我留下，他要聽皇上審斷，我就吩咐把他留下，等我解他到凱撒那裡去。
But when Paul had appealed to be reserved unto the hearing of Augustus, I commanded him to be kept till I might send him to Caesar.

25:22    亞基帕對非斯都說，我自己也願聽這人辯論。非斯都說，明天你可以聽。
Then Agrippa said unto Festus, I would also hear the man myself. To morrow, said he, thou shalt hear him.

25:23    第二天，亞基帕和百尼基大張威勢而來，同著眾千夫長，和城裡的尊貴人，進了公廳。非斯都吩咐一聲，就有人將保羅帶進來。
And on the morrow, when Agrippa was come, and Bernice, with great pomp, and was entered into the place of hearing, with the chief captains, and principal men of the city, at Festus' commandment Paul was brought forth.

25:24    非斯都說，亞基帕王，和在這裡的諸位阿，你們看這人，就是一切猶太人在耶路撒冷，和這裡，曾向我懇求，呼叫說，不可容他再活著。
And Festus said, King Agrippa, and all men which are here present with us, ye see this man, about whom all the multitude of the Jews have dealt with me, both at Jerusalem, and also here, crying that he ought not to live any longer.

25:25    但我查明他沒有犯什麼該死的罪。並且他自己上告於皇帝，所以我定意把他解去
But when I found that he had committed nothing worthy of death, and that he himself hath appealed to Augustus, I have determined to send him.

25:26    論到這人，我沒有確實的事，可以奏明主上。因此我帶他到你們面前，也特意帶他到你亞基帕王面前，為要在查問之後，有所陳奏。
Of whom I have no certain thing to write unto my lord. Wherefore I have brought him forth before you, and specially before thee, O king Agrippa, that, after examination had, I might have somewhat to write.

25:27    據我看來，解送囚犯，不指明他的罪案，是不合理的。
For it seemeth to me unreasonable to send a prisoner, and not withal to signify the crimes laid against him.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


26:1    亞基帕對抱羅說，準你為自己辯明。
Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Thou art permitted to speak for thyself. Then Paul stretched forth the hand, and answered for himself:

26:2    於是保羅挽手分訴說，亞基帕王阿，猶太人所告我的一切事，今日得在你面前分訴，實在萬幸。
I think myself happy, king Agrippa, because I shall answer for myself this day before thee touching all the things whereof I am accused of the Jews:

26:3    更可幸的，是你熟悉猶太人的規矩，和他們的辯論。所以求你耐心聽我。
Especially because I know thee to be expert in all customs and questions which are among the Jews: wherefore I beseech thee to hear me patiently.

26:4    我從起初在本國的民中，並在耶路撒冷，自幼為人如何，猶太人都知道。
My manner of life from my youth, which was at the first among mine own nation at Jerusalem, know all the Jews;

26:5    他們若肯作見證，就曉得我從起初，是按著我們教中最嚴緊的教門，作了法利賽人。
Which knew me from the beginning, if they would testify, that after the most straitest sect of our religion I lived a Pharisee.

26:6    現在我站在這裡受審，是因為指望神向我們祖宗所應許的。
And now I stand and am judged for the hope of the promise made of God unto our fathers:

26:7    這應許，我們十二個支派晝夜切切的事奉神，都指望得著。王阿，我被猶太人控告，就是因這指望。
Unto which promise our twelve tribes, instantly serving God day and night, hope to come. For which hope's sake, king Agrippa, I am accused of the Jews.

26:8    神叫死人復活，你們為什麼看作不可信的呢。
Why should it be thought a thing incredible with you, that God should raise the dead?

26:9    從前我自己以為應當多方攻擊拿撒勒人耶穌的名。
I verily thought with myself, that I ought to do many things contrary to the name of Jesus of Nazareth.

26:10    我在耶路撒冷也曾這樣行了。既從祭司長得了權柄，我就把許多聖徒囚在監裡。他們被殺，我也出名定案。
Which thing I also did in Jerusalem: and many of the saints did I shut up in prison, having received authority from the chief priests; and when they were put to death, I gave my voice against them.

26:11    在各會堂，我屢次用刑，強逼他們說褻瀆的話。又分外惱恨他們，甚至追逼他們直到外邦的城邑。
And I punished them oft in every synagogue, and compelled them to blaspheme; and being exceedingly mad against them, I persecuted them even unto strange cities.

26:12    那時，我領了祭司長的權柄和命令，往大馬士革去。
Whereupon as I went to Damascus with authority and commission from the chief priests,

26:13    王阿，我在路上，晌午的時候，看見從天發光，比日頭還亮，四面照著我，並與我同行的人。
At midday, O king, I saw in the way a light from heaven, above the brightness of the sun, shining round about me and them which journeyed with me.

26:14    我們都仆倒在地，我就聽見有聲音，用希伯來話，向我說，掃羅，掃羅，為什麼逼迫我。你用腳踢刺是難的。
And when we were all fallen to the earth, I heard a voice speaking unto me, and saying in the Hebrew tongue, Saul, Saul, why persecutest thou me? it is hard for thee to kick against the pricks.

26:15    我說，主阿，你是誰。主說，我就是你所逼迫的耶穌。
And I said, Who art thou, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus whom thou persecutest.

26:16    你起來站著，我特意向你顯現，要派你作執事作見證，將你所看見的事，和我將要指示你的事，證明出來。
But rise, and stand upon thy feet: for I have appeared unto thee for this purpose, to make thee a minister and a witness both of these things which thou hast seen, and of those things in the which I will appear unto thee;

26:17    我也要救你脫離百姓和外邦人的手。
Delivering thee from the people, and from the Gentiles, unto whom now I send thee,

26:18    我差你到他們那裡去，要叫他們的眼睛得開，從黑暗中歸向光明，從撒但權下歸向神。又因信我，得蒙赦罪，和一切成聖的人同得基業。
To open their eyes, and to turn them from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan unto God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and inheritance among them which are sanctified by faith that is in me.

26:19    亞基帕王阿，我故此沒有違背那從天上來的異象。
Whereupon, O king Agrippa, I was not disobedient unto the heavenly vision:

26:20    先在大馬士革，後在耶路撒冷，和猶太全地，以及外邦，勸勉他們應當悔改歸向神，行事與悔改的心相稱。
But shewed first unto them of Damascus, and at Jerusalem, and throughout all the coasts of Judaea, and then to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, and do works meet for repentance.

26:21    因此，猶太人在殿裡拿住我，想要殺我。
For these causes the Jews caught me in the temple, and went about to kill me.

26:22    然而我蒙神的幫助，直到今日還站得住，對著尊貴卑賤老幼作見證。所講的，並不外乎眾先知和摩西所說，將來必成的事。
Having therefore obtained help of God, I continue unto this day, witnessing both to small and great, saying none other things than those which the prophets and Moses did say should come:



26:23    就是基督必須受害，並且因從死裡復活，要首先把光明的道，傳給百姓和外邦人。
That Christ should suffer, and that he should be the first that should rise from the dead, and should shew light unto the people, and to the Gentiles.

26:24    保羅這樣分訴，非斯都大聲說，保羅，你癲狂了吧。你的學問太大，反叫你癲狂了。
And as he thus spake for himself, Festus said with a loud voice, Paul, thou art beside thyself; much learning doth make thee mad.

26:25    保羅說，非斯都大人，我不是癲狂，我說的乃是真實明白話。
But he said, I am not mad, most noble Festus; but speak forth the words of truth and soberness.

26:26    王也曉得這些事，所以我向王放膽直言，我深信這些事沒有一件向王隱藏的。因都不是在背地裡作的。
For the king knoweth of these things, before whom also I speak freely: for I am persuaded that none of these things are hidden from him; for this thing was not done in a corner.

26:27    亞基帕王阿，你信先知嗎，我知道你是信的。
King Agrippa, believest thou the prophets? I know that thou believest.

26:28    亞基帕對保羅說，你想少微一勸，便叫我作基督徒阿。（或作你這樣勸我幾乎叫我作基督徒了）。
Then Agrippa said unto Paul, Almost thou persuadest me to be a Christian.

26:29    保羅說，無論是少勸，是多勸，我向神所求的，不但你一個人，就是今天一切聽我的，都要像我一樣，只是不要像我有這些鎖鏈。
And Paul said, I would to God, that not only thou, but also all that hear me this day, were both almost, and altogether such as I am, except these bonds.

26:30    於是王，和巡撫，並百尼基，與同坐的人，都起來，
And when he had thus spoken, the king rose up, and the governor, and Bernice, and they that sat with them:

26:31    退到裡面，彼此談論說，這人並沒有犯什麼該死該綁的罪。
And when they were gone aside, they talked between themselves, saying, This man doeth nothing worthy of death or of bonds.

26:32    亞基帕又對非斯都說，這人若沒有上告於凱撒，就可以釋放了。
Then said Agrippa unto Festus, This man might have been set at liberty, if he had not appealed unto Caesar.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　　


27:1    非斯都既然定規了，叫我們坐船往義大利去，便將保羅，和別的囚犯，交給卿營裡的一個百夫長，名叫猶流。
And when it was determined that we should sail into Italy, they delivered Paul and certain other prisoners unto one named Julius, a centurion of Augustus' band.

27:2    有一隻亞大米田的船，要沿著亞細亞一帶地方的海邊走，我們就上了船開行，有馬其頓的帖撒羅尼迦人，亞里達古，和我們同去。
And entering into a ship of Adramyttium, we launched, meaning to sail by the coasts of Asia; one Aristarchus, a Macedonian of Thessalonica, being with us.

27:3    第二天，到了西頓。猶流寬待保羅，準他往朋友那裡去，受他們的照應。
And the next day we touched at Sidon. And Julius courteously entreated Paul, and gave him liberty to go unto his friends to refresh himself.

27:4    從那裡又開船，因為風不順，就貼著塞普勒斯背風岸行去。
And when we had launched from thence, we sailed under Cyprus, because the winds were contrary.

27:5    過了基利家旁非利亞前面的海，就到呂家的每拉。
And when we had sailed over the sea of Cilicia and Pamphylia, we came to Myra, a city of Lycia.

27:6    在那裡百夫長遇見一隻亞力山太的船，要往義大利去，便叫我們上了那船。
And there the centurion found a ship of Alexandria sailing into Italy; and he put us therein.

27:7    一連多日，船行得慢，僅僅來到革尼土的對面。因為被風攔阻，就貼著克里特背風岸，從撒摩尼對面行過。
And when we had sailed slowly many days, and scarce were come over against Cnidus, the wind not suffering us, we sailed under Crete, over against Salmone;

27:8    我們沿岸行走，僅僅來到一個地方，名叫佳澳。離那裡不遠，有拉西亞城。
And, hardly passing it, came unto a place which is called The fair havens; nigh whereunto was the city of Lasea.

27:9    走的日子多了，已經過了禁食的節期，行船又危險，保羅就勸眾人說，
Now when much time was spent, and when sailing was now dangerous, because the fast was now already past, Paul admonished them,

27:10    眾位，我看這次行船，不但貨物和船要受傷損，大遭破壞，連我們的性命也難保。
And said unto them, Sirs, I perceive that this voyage will be with hurt and much damage, not only of the lading and ship, but also of our lives.

27:11    但百夫長信從掌船的和船主，不信從保羅所說的。
Nevertheless the centurion believed the master and the owner of the ship, more than those things which were spoken by Paul.

27:12    且因在這海口過冬不便，船上的人，就多半說，不如開船離開這地方，或者能到非尼基過冬。非尼基是克里特的一個海口，一面朝東北，一面朝東南。
And because the haven was not commodious to winter in, the more part advised to depart thence also, if by any means they might attain to Phenice, and there to winter; which is an haven of Crete, and lieth toward the south west and north west.

27:13    這時微微起了南風，他們以為得意，就起了錨，貼近克里特行去。
And when the south wind blew softly, supposing that they had obtained their purpose, loosing thence, they sailed close by Crete.

27:14    不多幾時，狂風從島上撲下來，那風名叫友拉革羅。
But not long after there arose against it a tempestuous wind, called Euroclydon.

27:15    船被風抓住，敵不住風，我們就任風颳去。
And when the ship was caught, and could not bear up into the wind, we let her drive.

27:16    貼著一個小島的背風岸奔行，那島名叫高大，在那裡僅僅收住了小船。
And running under a certain island which is called Clauda, we had much work to come by the boat:

27:17    既然把小船拉上來，就用纜索捆綁船底。又恐怕在賽耳底沙灘上擱了淺，就落下篷來，任船飄去。
Which when they had taken up, they used helps, undergirding the ship; and, fearing lest they should fall into the quicksands, strake sail, and so were driven.

27:18    我們被風浪逼得甚急，第二天眾人就把貨物拋在海里。
And we being exceedingly tossed with a tempest, the next day they lightened the ship;

27:19    到第三天，他們又親手把船上的器具拋棄了。
And the third day we cast out with our own hands the tackling of the ship.

27:20    太陽和星辰多日不顯露，又有狂風大浪催逼，我們得救的指望就都絕了。
And when neither sun nor stars in many days appeared, and no small tempest lay on us, all hope that we should be saved was then taken away.

27:21    眾人多日沒有吃什麼，保羅就出來站在他們中間說，眾位，你們本該聽我的話，不離開克里特，免得遭這樣的傷損破壞。
But after long abstinence Paul stood forth in the midst of them, and said, Sirs, ye should have hearkened unto me, and not have loosed from Crete, and to have gained this harm and loss.

27:22    現在我還勸你們放心。你們的性命，一個也不失喪，惟獨失喪這船。
And now I exhort you to be of good cheer: for there shall be no loss of any man's life among you, but of the ship.

27:23    因我所屬所事奉的神，他的使者昨夜站在我旁邊說，
For there stood by me this night the angel of God, whose I am, and whom I serve,

27:24    保羅，不要害怕，你必定站在凱撒面前。並且與你同船的人，神都賜給你了。
Saying, Fear not, Paul; thou must be brought before Caesar: and, lo, God hath given thee all them that sail with thee.

27:25    所以眾位可以放心，我信）神，他怎樣對我說，事情也要怎樣成就。
Wherefore, sirs, be of good cheer: for I believe God, that it shall be even as it was told me.

27:26    只是我們必要撞在一個島上。
Howbeit we must be cast upon a certain island.

27:27    到了第十四天夜間，船在亞得里亞海，飄來飄去，約到半夜，水手以為漸近旱地，
But when the fourteenth night was come, as we were driven up and down in Adria, about midnight the shipmen deemed that they drew near to some country;

27:28    就探深淺，探得有十二丈，稍往前行，又探深淺，探得有九丈。
And sounded, and found it twenty fathoms: and when they had gone a little further, they sounded again, and found it fifteen fathoms.

27:29    恐怕撞在石頭上，就從船尾拋下四個錨，盼望天亮。
Then fearing lest we should have fallen upon rocks, they cast four anchors out of the stern, and wished for the day.

27:30    水手想要逃出船去，把小船放在海里，假作要從船頭拋錨的樣子。
And as the shipmen were about to flee out of the ship, when they had let down the boat into the sea, under colour as though they would have cast anchors out of the foreship,

27:31    保羅對百夫長和兵丁說，這些人若不等在船上，你們必不能得救。
Paul said to the centurion and to the soldiers, Except these abide in the ship, ye cannot be saved.

27:32    於是兵丁砍斷小船的繩子，由他飄去。
Then the soldiers cut off the ropes of the boat, and let her fall off.

27:33    天漸亮的時候保羅勸眾人都吃飯，說，你們懸望忍餓不吃什麼，已經十四天了。
And while the day was coming on, Paul besought them all to take meat, saying, This day is the fourteenth day that ye have tarried and continued fasting, having taken nothing.

27:34    所以我勸你們吃飯，這是關乎你們救命的事。因為你們各人連一根頭髮，也不至損壞。
Wherefore I pray you to take some meat: for this is for your health: for there shall not an hair fall from the head of any of you.

27:35    保羅說了這話，就拿著餅，在眾人面前祝謝了神，擘開吃。
And when he had thus spoken, he took bread, and gave thanks to God in presence of them all: and when he had broken it, he began to eat.

27:36    於是他們都放下心，也就吃了。
Then were they all of good cheer, and they also took some meat.

27:37    我們在船上的，共有二百七十六個人
And we were in all in the ship two hundred threescore and sixteen souls.

27:38    他們吃飽了，就把船上的麥子，拋在海里，為要叫船輕一點。
And when they had eaten enough, they lightened the ship, and cast out the wheat into the sea.

27:39    到了天亮，他們不認識那地方，但見一個海灣，有岸可登，就商議能把船攏進去不能。
And when it was day, they knew not the land: but they discovered a certain creek with a shore, into the which they were minded, if it were possible, to thrust in the ship.

27:40    於是砍斷纜索，棄錨在海里，同時也鬆開舵繩，拉起頭篷，順著風向岸行去。
And when they had taken up the anchors, they committed themselves unto the sea, and loosed the rudder bands, and hoised up the mainsail to the wind, and made toward shore.

27:41    但遇著兩水夾流的地方，就把船擱了淺。船頭膠住不動，船尾被浪的猛力沖壞。
And falling into a place where two seas met, they ran the ship aground; and the forepart stuck fast, and remained unmoveable, but the hinder part was broken with the violence of the waves.

27:42    兵丁的意思，要把囚犯殺了，恐怕有？？水脫逃的。
And the soldiers' counsel was to kill the prisoners, lest any of them should swim out, and escape.

27:43    但百夫長要救保羅，不准他們任意而行，就吩咐會？？水的，跳下水先上岸。
But the centurion, willing to save Paul, kept them from their purpose; and commanded that they which could swim should cast themselves first into the sea, and get to land:

27:44    其餘的人，可以用板子，或船上的零碎東西上岸。這樣眾人都得了救上了岸。
And the rest, some on boards, and some on broken pieces of the ship. And so it came to pass, that they escaped all safe to land.



新約 -- 使徒行傳(Acts) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 28 章 )    　


28:1    我們既已得救，才知道那島名叫馬耳他。
And when they were escaped, then they knew that the island was called Melita.

28:2    土人看待我們，有非常的情分，因為當時下雨，天氣又冷，就生火，接待我們眾人。
And the barbarous people shewed us no little kindness: for they kindled a fire, and received us every one, because of the present rain, and because of the cold.

28:3    那時保羅拾起一捆柴，放在火上，有一條毒蛇，因為熱了出來，咬住他的手。
And when Paul had gathered a bundle of sticks, and laid them on the fire, there came a viper out of the heat, and fastened on his hand.

28:4    土人看見那毒蛇，懸在他手上，就彼此說，這人必是個凶手，雖然從海里救上來，天理還不容他活著。
And when the barbarians saw the venomous beast hang on his hand, they said among themselves, No doubt this man is a murderer, whom, though he hath escaped the sea, yet vengeance suffereth not to live.

28:5    保羅竟把那蛇，甩在火裡，並沒有受傷。
And he shook off the beast into the fire, and felt no harm.

28:6    土人想他必要腫起來，或是忽然仆倒死了。看了多時，見他無害，就轉念說，他是個神。
Howbeit they looked when he should have swollen, or fallen down dead suddenly: but after they had looked a great while, and saw no harm come to him, they changed their minds, and said that he was a god.

28:7    離那地方不遠，有田產是島長部百流的。他接納我們，盡情款待三日。
In the same quarters were possessions of the chief man of the island, whose name was Publius; who received us, and lodged us three days courteously.

28:8    當時，部百流的父親，患熱病和痢疾躺著。保羅進去，為他禱告，按手在他身上，治好了他。
And it came to pass, that the father of Publius lay sick of a fever and of a bloody flux: to whom Paul entered in, and prayed, and laid his hands on him, and healed him.

28:9    從此，島上其餘的病人，也來得了醫治。
So when this was done, others also, which had diseases in the island, came, and were healed:

28:10    他們又多方的尊敬我們。到了開船的時候，也把我們所需用的送到船上。
Who also honoured us with many honours; and when we departed, they laded us with such things as were necessary.

28:11    過了三個月，我們上了亞力山太的船，往前行。這船以宙斯雙子為記，是在海島過了冬的。
And after three months we departed in a ship of Alexandria, which had wintered in the isle, whose sign was Castor and Pollux.

28:12    到了敘拉古，我們停泊三日。
And landing at Syracuse, we tarried there three days.

28:13    又從那裡繞行，來到利基翁。過了一天，起了南風，第二天就來到部丟利。
And from thence we fetched a compass, and came to Rhegium: and after one day the south wind blew, and we came the next day to Puteoli:

28:14    在那裡遇見弟兄們，請我們與他們同住七天。這樣我們來到羅馬。
Where we found brethren, and were desired to tarry with them seven days: and so we went toward Rome.

28:15    那裡的弟兄們，一聽見我們的資訊，就出來到亞比烏市，和三館地方迎接我們。保羅見了他們，就感謝神，放心壯膽。
And from thence, when the brethren heard of us, they came to meet us as far as Appii forum, and The three taverns: whom when Paul saw, he thanked God, and took courage.

28:16    進了羅馬城，（有古卷在此有百夫長把眾囚犯交給御營的統領惟有）保羅蒙準，和一個看守他的兵，另住在一處。
And when we came to Rome, the centurion delivered the prisoners to the captain of the guard: but Paul was suffered to dwell by himself with a soldier that kept him.

28:17    過了三天，保羅請猶太人的首領來。他們來了，就對他們說，弟兄們，我雖沒有作什麼事幹犯本國的百姓，和我們祖宗的規條，卻被鎖綁，從耶路撒冷解在羅馬人的手裡。
And it came to pass, that after three days Paul called the chief of the Jews together: and when they were come together, he said unto them, Men and brethren, though I have committed nothing against the people, or customs of our fathers, yet was I delivered prisoner from Jerusalem into the hands of the Romans.

28:18    他們審問了我，就願意釋放我。因為在我身上，並沒有該死的罪。
Who, when they had examined me, would have let me go, because there was no cause of death in me.

28:19    無奈猶太人不服，我不得己，只好上告於凱撒。並沒有什麼事，要控告我本國的百姓。
But when the Jews spake against it, I was constrained to appeal unto Caesar; not that I had ought to accuse my nation of.

28:20    因此，我請你們來見面說話。我原為以色列人所指望的，被這鏈子捆鎖。
For this cause therefore have I called for you, to see you, and to speak with you: because that for the hope of Israel I am bound with this chain.

28:21    他們說，我們並沒有接著從猶太來論你的信，也沒有弟兄到這裡來，報信給我們說，你有什麼不好處。
And they said unto him, We neither received letters out of Judaea concerning thee, neither any of the brethren that came shewed or spake any harm of thee.

28:22    但我們願意聽你的意見如何。因為這教門，我們曉得是到處被毀謗的。
But we desire to hear of thee what thou thinkest: for as concerning this sect, we know that every where it is spoken against.

28:23    他們和保羅約定了日子，就有許多人到他的寓處來，保羅從早到晚，對他們講論這事，證明神國的道，引摩西的律法和先知的書，以耶穌的事，勸勉他們。
And when they had appointed him a day, there came many to him into his lodging; to whom he expounded and testified the kingdom of God, persuading them concerning Jesus, both out of the law of Moses, and out of the prophets, from morning till evening.

28:24    他所說的話，有信的，有不信的。
And some believed the things which were spoken, and some believed not.

28:25    他們彼此不合，就散了。未散以先，保羅說了一句話，說，聖靈藉先知以賽亞，向你們祖宗所說的話，是不錯的。
And when they agreed not among themselves, they departed, after that Paul had spoken one word, Well spake the Holy Ghost by Esaias the prophet unto our fathers,

28:26    他說，你去告訴這百姓說，你們聽是要聽見，卻不明白。看是要看見，卻不曉得。
Saying, Go unto this people, and say, Hearing ye shall hear, and shall not understand; and seeing ye shall see, and not perceive:

28:27    因為這百姓，油蒙了心，耳朵發沉，眼睛閉著。恐怕眼睛看見，耳朵聽見，心裡明白，迴轉過來，我就醫治他們。
For the heart of this people is waxed gross, and their ears are dull of hearing, and their eyes have they closed; lest they should see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and should be converted, and I should heal them.

28:28    所以你們當知道，神這救恩，如今傳給外邦人，他們也必聽受。（有古卷在此有，
Be it known therefore unto you, that the salvation of God is sent unto the Gentiles, and that they will hear it.

28:29    保羅說了這話猶太人議論紛紛的就走了）。
And when he had said these words, the Jews departed, and had great reasoning among themselves.

28:30    保羅在自己所租的房子裡，住了足足兩年。凡來見他的人，他全都接待，
And Paul dwelt two whole years in his own hired house, and received all that came in unto him,

28:31    放膽傳講神國的道，將耶穌基督的事教導人，並沒有人禁止。
Preaching the kingdom of God, and teaching those things which concern the Lord Jesus Christ, with all confidence, no man forbidding him.



