
新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　


1:1    耶穌基督的僕人保羅，奉召為使徒，特派傳神的福音。
Paul, a servant of Jesus Christ, called to be an apostle, separated unto the gospel of God,

1:2    這福音是神從前藉眾先知，在聖經上所應許的。
(Which he had promised afore by his prophets in the holy scriptures,)

1:3    論到他兒子，我主耶穌基督。按肉體說，是從大衛後裔生的。
Concerning his Son Jesus Christ our Lord, which was made of the seed of David according to the flesh;

1:4    按聖善的靈說，因從死裡復活，以大能顯明是神的兒子。
And declared to be the Son of God with power, according to the spirit of holiness, by the resurrection from the dead:

1:5    我們從他受了恩惠，並使徒的職分，在萬國之中叫人為他的名信服真道。
By whom we have received grace and apostleship, for obedience to the faith among all nations, for his name:

1:6    其中也有你們這蒙召屬耶穌基督的人。
Among whom are ye also the called of Jesus Christ:

1:7    我寫信給你們在羅馬為神所愛，奉召作聖徒的眾人。願恩惠平安，從我們的父神，並主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
To all that be in Rome, beloved of God, called to be saints: Grace to you and peace from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:8    第一，我靠著耶穌基督，為你們眾人感謝我的神。因你們的信德傳遍了天下。
First, I thank my God through Jesus Christ for you all, that your faith is spoken of throughout the whole world.

1:9    我在他兒子福音上，用心靈所事奉的神，可以見證我怎樣不住的題到你們，
For God is my witness, whom I serve with my spirit in the gospel of his Son, that without ceasing I make mention of you always in my prayers;

1:10    在禱告之間，常常懇求，或者照神的旨意，終能得平坦的道路往你們那裡去。
Making request, if by any means now at length I might have a prosperous journey by the will of God to come unto you.

1:11    因為我切切的想見你們，要把些屬靈的恩賜分給你們，使你們可以堅固。
For I long to see you, that I may impart unto you some spiritual gift, to the end ye may be established;

1:12    這樣我在你們中間，因你與我彼此的信心，就可以同得安慰。
That is, that I may be comforted together with you by the mutual faith both of you and me.

1:13    弟兄們，我不願意你們不知道，我屢次定意往你們那裡去，要在你們中間得些果子，如同在其餘的外邦人中一樣。只是到如今仍有阻隔。
Now I would not have you ignorant, brethren, that oftentimes I purposed to come unto you, (but was let hitherto,) that I might have some fruit among you also, even as among other Gentiles.

1:14    無論是希臘人，化外人，聰明人，愚拙人，我都欠他們的債。
I am debtor both to the Greeks, and to the Barbarians; both to the wise, and to the unwise.

1:15    所以情願盡我的力量，將福音也傳給你們在羅馬的人。
So, as much as in me is, I am ready to preach the gospel to you that are at Rome also.

1:16    我不以福音為恥。這福音本是神的大能，要救一切相信的，先是猶太人，後是希臘人。
For I am not ashamed of the gospel of Christ: for it is the power of God unto salvation to every one that believeth; to the Jew first, and also to the Greek.

1:17    因為神的義，正在這福音上顯明出來。這義是本於信以致於信。如經上所記，義人必因信得生。
For therein is the righteousness of God revealed from faith to faith: as it is written, The just shall live by faith.

1:18    原來神的忿怒，從天上顯明在一切不虔不義的人身上，就是那些行不義阻擋真理的人。
For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who hold the truth in unrighteousness;

1:19    神的事情，人所能知道的，原顯明在人心裡。因為神已經給他們顯明。
Because that which may be known of God is manifest in them; for God hath shewed it unto them.

1:20    自從造天地以來，神的永能和神性是明明可知的，雖是眼不能見，但藉著所造之物，就可以曉得，叫人無可推諉。
For the invisible things of him from the creation of the world are clearly seen, being understood by the things that are made, even his eternal power and Godhead; so that they are without excuse:

1:21    因為他們雖然知道神，卻不當作神榮耀他，也不感謝他。他們的思念變為虛妄，無知的心就昏暗了。
Because that, when they knew God, they glorified him not as God, neither were thankful; but became vain in their imaginations, and their foolish heart was darkened.



1:22    自稱為聰明，反成了愚拙，
Professing themselves to be wise, they became fools,

1:23    將不能朽壞之神的榮耀變為偶像，彷佛必朽壞的人，和飛禽走獸昆蟲的樣式。
And changed the glory of the uncorruptible God into an image made like to corruptible man, and to birds, and fourfooted beasts, and creeping things.

1:24    所以神任憑他們，逞著心裡的情慾行汙穢的事，以致彼此玷辱自己的身體。
Wherefore God also gave them up to uncleanness through the lusts of their own hearts, to dishonour their own bodies between themselves:

1:25    他們將神的真實變為虛謊，去敬拜事奉受造之物，不敬奉那造物的主。主乃是可稱頌的，直到永遠。阿們。
Who changed the truth of God into a lie, and worshipped and served the creature more than the Creator, who is blessed for ever. Amen.

1:26    因此神任憑他們放縱可羞恥的情慾。他們的女人，把順性的用處，變為逆性的用處。
For this cause God gave them up unto vile affections: for even their women did change the natural use into that which is against nature:

1:27    男人也是如此，棄了女人順性的用處，慾火攻心，彼此貪戀，男和男行可羞恥的事，就在自己身上受這妄為當得的報應。
And likewise also the men, leaving the natural use of the woman, burned in their lust one toward another; men with men working that which is unseemly, and receiving in themselves that recompence of their error which was meet.

1:28    他們既然故意不認識神，神就任憑他們存邪僻的心行那些不合理的事，
And even as they did not like to retain God in their knowledge, God gave them over to a reprobate mind, to do those things which are not convenient;

1:29    裝滿了各樣不義，邪惡，貪婪，惡毒（或作陰毒）。滿心是嫉妒，凶殺，爭競，詭詐，毒恨。
Being filled with all unrighteousness, fornication, wickedness, covetousness, maliciousness; full of envy, murder, debate, deceit, malignity; whisperers,

1:30    又是讒毀的，背後說人的，怨恨神的（或作被神所憎惡的），侮慢人的，狂傲的，自誇的，捏造惡事的，違背父母的，
Backbiters, haters of God, despiteful, proud, boasters, inventors of evil things, disobedient to parents,

1:31    無知的，背約的，無親情的，不憐憫人的。
Without understanding, covenantbreakers, without natural affection, implacable, unmerciful:

1:32    他們雖知道神判定，行這樣事的人是當死的，然而他們不但自己去行，還喜歡別人去行。
Who knowing the judgment of God, that they which commit such things are worthy of death, not only do the same, but have pleasure in them that do them.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


2:1    你這論斷人的，無論你是誰，也無可推諉，你在什麼事上論斷人，就在什麼事上定自己的罪。因你這論斷人的，自己所行卻和別人一樣。
Therefore thou art inexcusable, O man, whosoever thou art that judgest: for wherein thou judgest another, thou condemnest thyself; for thou that judgest doest the same things.

2:2    我們知道這樣行的人，神必照真理審判他。
But we are sure that the judgment of God is according to truth against them which commit such things.

2:3    你這人哪，你論斷行這事的人，自己所行的卻和別人一樣，你以為能逃脫神的審判嗎。
And thinkest thou this, O man, that judgest them which do such things, and doest the same, that thou shalt escape the judgment of God?

2:4    還是你藐視他豐富的恩慈，寬容，忍耐，不曉得他的恩慈是領你悔改呢。
Or despisest thou the riches of his goodness and forbearance and longsuffering; not knowing that the goodness of God leadeth thee to repentance?

2:5    你竟任著你剛硬不悔改的心，為自己積蓄忿怒，以致神震怒，顯出他公義審判的日子來到。
But after thy hardness and impenitent heart treasurest up unto thyself wrath against the day of wrath and revelation of the righteous judgment of God;

2:6    他必照各人的行為報應各人。
Who will render to every man according to his deeds:

2:7    凡恆心行善尋求榮耀尊貴，和不能朽壞之福的，就以永生報應他們。
To them who by patient continuance in well doing seek for glory and honour and immortality, eternal life:

2:8    惟有結黨不順從真理，反順從不義的，就以忿怒惱恨報應他們。
But unto them that are contentious, and do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness, indignation and wrath,

2:9    將患難，困苦，加給一切作惡的人，先是猶太人，後是希臘人。
Tribulation and anguish, upon every soul of man that doeth evil, of the Jew first, and also of the Gentile;

2:10    卻將榮耀，尊貴，平安，加給一切行善的人，先是猶太人，後是希臘人。
But glory, honour, and peace, to every man that worketh good, to the Jew first, and also to the Gentile:

2:11    因為神不偏待人。
For there is no respect of persons with God.

2:12    凡沒有律法犯了罪的，也必不按律法滅亡。凡在律法以下犯了罪的，也必按律法受審判，
For as many as have sinned without law shall also perish without law: and as many as have sinned in the law shall be judged by the law;

2:13    （原來在神面前，不是聽律法的為義，乃是行律法的稱義。
(For not the hearers of the law are just before God, but the doers of the law shall be justified.

2:14    沒有律法的外邦人，若順著本性行律法上的事，他們雖然沒有律法，自己就是自己的律法。
For when the Gentiles, which have not the law, do by nature the things contained in the law, these, having not the law, are a law unto themselves:

2:15    這是顯出律法的功用刻在他們心裡，他們是非之心同作見證，並且他們的思念互相較量，或以為是，或以為非
Which shew the work of the law written in their hearts, their conscience also bearing witness, and their thoughts the mean while accusing or else excusing one another;)

2:16    就在神藉耶穌基督審判人隱祕事的日子，照著我的福音所言。
In the day when God shall judge the secrets of men by Jesus Christ according to my gospel.

2:17    你稱為猶太人，又倚靠律法，且指著神誇口。
Behold, thou art called a Jew, and restest in the law, and makest thy boast of God,

2:18    既從律法中受了教訓，就曉得神的旨意，也能分別是非（或作也喜愛那美好的事）
And knowest his will, and approvest the things that are more excellent, being instructed out of the law;

2:19    又深信自己是給瞎子領路的，是黑暗中人的光，
And art confident that thou thyself art a guide of the blind, a light of them which are in darkness,

2:20    是蠢笨人的師傅，是小孩子的先生，在律法上有知識和真理的模範。
An instructor of the foolish, a teacher of babes, which hast the form of knowledge and of the truth in the law.

2:21    你既是教導別人，還不教導自己嗎。你講說人不可偷竊，自己還偷竊嗎。
Thou therefore which teachest another, teachest thou not thyself? thou that preachest a man should not steal, dost thou steal?

2:22    你說人不可姦淫，自己還姦淫嗎。你厭惡偶像，自己還偷竊廟中之物嗎。
Thou that sayest a man should not commit adultery, dost thou commit adultery? thou that abhorrest idols, dost thou commit sacrilege?

2:23    你指著律法誇口，自己倒犯律法，玷辱神嗎。
Thou that makest thy boast of the law, through breaking the law dishonourest thou God?

2:24    神的名在外邦人中，因你們受了褻瀆，正如經上所記的。
For the name of God is blasphemed among the Gentiles through you, as it is written.

2:25    你若是行律法的割禮固然於你有益。若是犯律法的，你的割禮就算不得割禮。
For circumcision verily profiteth, if thou keep the law: but if thou be a breaker of the law, thy circumcision is made uncircumcision.

2:26    所以那未受割禮的，若遵守律法的條例，他雖然未受割禮，豈不算是有割禮嗎。
Therefore if the uncircumcision keep the righteousness of the law, shall not his uncircumcision be counted for circumcision?

2:27    然而那本來未受割禮的，若能全守律法，豈不是要審判你這有儀文和割禮竟犯律法的人嗎。
And shall not uncircumcision which is by nature, if it fulfil the law, judge thee, who by the letter and circumcision dost transgress the law?

2:28    因為外面作猶太人的，不是真猶太人，外面肉身的割禮，也不是真割禮。
For he is not a Jew, which is one outwardly; neither is that circumcision, which is outward in the flesh:

2:29    惟有裡面作的，才是真猶太人。真割禮也是心裡的，在乎靈，不在乎儀文。這人的稱讚不是從人來的，乃是從神來的。
But he is a Jew, which is one inwardly; and circumcision is that of the heart, in the spirit, and not in the letter; whose praise is not of men, but of God.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


3:1    這樣說來，猶太人有什麼長處，割禮有什麼益處呢。
What advantage then hath the Jew? or what profit is there of circumcision?

3:2    凡事大有好處。第一是神的聖言交託他們。
Much every way: chiefly, because that unto them were committed the oracles of God.

3:3    既便有不信的，這有何妨呢。難道他們的不信，就廢掉神的信嗎。
For what if some did not believe? shall their unbelief make the faith of God without effect?

3:4    斷乎不能。不如說，神是真實的，人都是虛謊的。如經上所記，你責備人的時候，顯為公義。被人議論的時候，可以得勝。
God forbid: yea, let God be true, but every man a liar; as it is written, That thou mightest be justified in thy sayings, and mightest overcome when thou art judged.

3:5    我且照著人的常話說，我們的不義，若顯出神的義來，我們可以怎嗎說呢。神降怒，是他不義嗎。
But if our unrighteousness commend the righteousness of God, what shall we say? Is God unrighteous who taketh vengeance? (I speak as a man)

3:6    斷乎不是。若是這樣，神怎能審判世界呢。
God forbid: for then how shall God judge the world?

3:7    若神的真實，因我的虛謊，越發顯出他的榮耀，為什麼我還受審判，好像罪人呢。
For if the truth of God hath more abounded through my lie unto his glory; why yet am I also judged as a sinner?

3:8    為什麼不說，我們可以作惡以成善呢，這是毀謗我們的人，說我們有這話。這等人定罪，是該當的。
And not rather, (as we be slanderously reported, and as some affirm that we say,) Let us do evil, that good may come? whose damnation is just.

3:9    這卻怎嗎樣呢。我們比他們強嗎。決不是的。因為我們已經證明，猶太人和希臘人都在罪惡之下。
What then? are we better than they? No, in no wise: for we have before proved both Jews and Gentiles, that they are all under sin;

3:10    就如經上所記，沒有義人，連一個也沒有。
As it is written, There is none righteous, no, not one:

3:11    沒有明白的，沒有尋求神的。
There is none that understandeth, there is none that seeketh after God.

3:12    都是偏離正路，一同變為無用。沒有行善的，連一個也沒有。
They are all gone out of the way, they are together become unprofitable; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

3:13    他們的喉嚨是敞開的墳墓。他們用舌頭弄詭詐。嘴脣裡有虺蛇的毒氣。
Their throat is an open sepulchre; with their tongues they have used deceit; the poison of asps is under their lips:

3:14    滿口是咒罵苦毒。
Whose mouth is full of cursing and bitterness:

3:15    殺人流血他們的腳飛跑。
Their feet are swift to shed blood:

3:16    所經過的路，便行殘害暴虐的事。
Destruction and misery are in their ways:

3:17    平安的路，他們未曾知道。
And the way of peace have they not known:

3:18    他們眼中不怕神。
There is no fear of God before their eyes.

3:19    我們曉得律法上的話，都是對律法以下之人說的，好塞住各人的口，叫普世的人都伏在神的審判之下。
Now we know that what things soever the law saith, it saith to them who are under the law: that every mouth may be stopped, and all the world may become guilty before God.

3:20    所以凡有血氣的沒有一個，因行律法，能在神面前稱義。因為律法本是叫人知罪。
Therefore by the deeds of the law there shall no flesh be justified in his sight: for by the law is the knowledge of sin.

3:21    但如今神的義在律法以外已經顯明出來，有律法和先知為證。
But now the righteousness of God without the law is manifested, being witnessed by the law and the prophets;

3:22    就是神的義，因信耶穌基督，加給一切相信的人，並沒有分別。
Even the righteousness of God which is by faith of Jesus Christ unto all and upon all them that believe: for there is no difference:

3:23    因為世人都犯了罪，虧缺了神的榮耀。
For all have sinned, and come short of the glory of God;

3:24    如今卻蒙神的恩典，因基督耶穌的救贖，就白白的稱義。
Being justified freely by his grace through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus:

3:25    神設立耶穌作挽回祭，是憑著耶穌的血，藉著人的信，要顯明神的義。因為他用忍耐的心，寬容人先時所犯的罪。
Whom God hath set forth to be a propitiation through faith in his blood, to declare his righteousness for the remission of sins that are past, through the forbearance of God;



3:26    好在今時顯明他的義，使人知道他自己為義，也稱信耶穌的人為義。
To declare, I say, at this time his righteousness: that he might be just, and the justifier of him which believeth in Jesus.

3:27    既是這樣，那裡能誇口呢。沒有可誇的了。用何法沒有的呢，是用立功之法嗎。不是，乃用信主之法。
Where is boasting then? It is excluded. By what law? of works? Nay: but by the law of faith.

3:28    所以（有古卷作因為）我們看定了，人稱義是因著信，不在乎遵行律法。
Therefore we conclude that a man is justified by faith without the deeds of the law.

3:29    難道神只作猶太人的神嗎。也不是作外邦人的神嗎。是的，也作外邦人的神。
Is he the God of the Jews only? is he not also of the Gentiles? Yes, of the Gentiles also:

3:30    神既是一位他就要因信稱那受割禮的為義，也要因信稱那未受割禮的為義。
Seeing it is one God, which shall justify the circumcision by faith, and uncircumcision through faith.

3:31    這樣，我們因信廢了律法嗎。斷乎不是，更是堅固律法。
Do we then make void the law through faith? God forbid: yea, we establish the law.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


4:1    如此說來，我們的祖宗亞伯拉罕，憑著肉體得了什麼呢。
What shall we say then that Abraham our father, as pertaining to the flesh, hath found?

4:2    倘若亞伯拉罕是因行為稱義，就有可誇的。只是在神面前並無可誇的。
For if Abraham were justified by works, he hath whereof to glory; but not before God.

4:3    經上說什麼呢。說，亞伯拉罕信神，這就算為他的義。
For what saith the scripture? Abraham believed God, and it was counted unto him for righteousness.

4:4    作工的得工價，不算恩典，乃是該得的，
Now to him that worketh is the reward not reckoned of grace, but of debt.

4:5    惟有不作工的，只信稱罪人為義的神，他的信就算為義。
But to him that worketh not, but believeth on him that justifieth the ungodly, his faith is counted for righteousness.

4:6    正如大衛稱那在行為以外，蒙神算為義的人是有福的。
Even as David also describeth the blessedness of the man, unto whom God imputeth righteousness without works,

4:7    他說，得赦免其過，遮蓋其罪的，這人是有福的。
Saying, Blessed are they whose iniquities are forgiven, and whose sins are covered.

4:8    主不算為有罪的，這人是有福的。
Blessed is the man to whom the Lord will not impute sin.

4:9    如此看來，這福音是單加給那受割禮的人嗎。不也是加給那未受割禮的人嗎。因我們所說，亞伯拉罕的信，就算為他的義。
Cometh this blessedness then upon the circumcision only, or upon the uncircumcision also? for we say that faith was reckoned to Abraham for righteousness.

4:10    是怎嗎算的呢。是在他受割禮的時候呢。是在他未受割禮的時候呢。不是在受割禮的時候，乃是在未受割禮的時候。
How was it then reckoned? when he was in circumcision, or in uncircumcision? Not in circumcision, but in uncircumcision.

4:11    並且他受了割禮的記號，作他未受割禮的時候因信稱義的印證，叫他作一切未受割禮而信之人的父，使他們也算為義。
And he received the sign of circumcision, a seal of the righteousness of the faith which he had yet being uncircumcised: that he might be the father of all them that believe, though they be not circumcised; that righteousness might be imputed unto them also:

4:12    又作受割禮之人的父，就是那些不但受割禮，並且按我們的祖宗亞伯拉罕，未受割禮而信之蹤跡去行的人。
And the father of circumcision to them who are not of the circumcision only, but who also walk in the steps of that faith of our father Abraham, which he had being yet uncircumcised.

4:13    因為神應許亞伯拉罕和他後裔，必得承受世界，不是因律法，乃是因信而得的義。
For the promise, that he should be the heir of the world, was not to Abraham, or to his seed, through the law, but through the righteousness of faith.

4:14    若是屬乎律法的人，才得為後嗣，信就歸於虛空，應許也就廢棄了。
For if they which are of the law be heirs, faith is made void, and the promise made of none effect:

4:15    因為律法是惹動忿怒的。（或作叫人受刑的）那裡沒有律法，那裡就沒有過犯。
Because the law worketh wrath: for where no law is, there is no transgression.

4:16    所以人得為後嗣是本乎信。因此就屬乎恩。叫應許定然歸給一切後裔。不但歸給那屬乎律法的，也歸給那效法亞伯拉罕之信的。
Therefore it is of faith, that it might be by grace; to the end the promise might be sure to all the seed; not to that only which is of the law, but to that also which is of the faith of Abraham; who is the father of us all,

4:17    亞伯拉罕所信的，是那叫死人復活使無變為有的神，他在主面前作我們世人的父。如經上所記，我已經立你作多國的父。
(As it is written, I have made thee a father of many nations,) before him whom he believed, even God, who quickeneth the dead, and calleth those things which be not as though they were.

4:18    他在無可指望的時候，因信仍有指望，就得以作多國的父，正如先前所說，你的後裔將要如此。
Who against hope believed in hope, that he might become the father of many nations, according to that which was spoken, So shall thy seed be.

4:19    他將近百歲的時候，雖然想到自己的身體如同已死，撒拉的生育已經斷絕，他的信心還是不軟弱。
And being not weak in faith, he considered not his own body now dead, when he was about an hundred years old, neither yet the deadness of Sarah's womb:

4:20    並且仰望神的應許，總沒有因不信，心裡起疑惑。反倒因信，心裡得堅固，將榮耀歸給神。
He staggered not at the promise of God through unbelief; but was strong in faith, giving glory to God;

4:21    且滿心相信，神所應許的必能作成。
And being fully persuaded that, what he had promised, he was able also to perform.

4:22    所以這就算為他的義。
And therefore it was imputed to him for righteousness.

4:23    算為他義的這句話，不是單為他寫的，
Now it was not written for his sake alone, that it was imputed to him;

4:24    也是為我們將來得算為義之人寫的。就是我們這信神使我們的主耶穌從死裡復活的人。
But for us also, to whom it shall be imputed, if we believe on him that raised up Jesus our Lord from the dead;

4:25    耶穌被交給人，是為我們的過犯，復活是為叫我們稱義。（或作耶穌是為我們的過犯交付了是為我們稱義復活了）
Who was delivered for our offences, and was raised again for our justification.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


5:1    我們既因信稱義，就藉著我們的主耶穌基督，得與神相和。
Therefore being justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ:

5:2    我們又藉著他，因信得進入現在所站的恩典中，並且歡歡喜喜盼望神的榮耀。
By whom also we have access by faith into this grace wherein we stand, and rejoice in hope of the glory of God.

5:3    不但如此，就是在患難中，也是歡歡喜喜的。因為知道患難生忍耐。
And not only so, but we glory in tribulations also: knowing that tribulation worketh patience;

5:4    忍耐生老練。老練生盼望。
And patience, experience; and experience, hope:

5:5    盼望不至於羞恥，因為所賜給我們的聖靈將神的愛澆灌在我們心裡。
And hope maketh not ashamed; because the love of God is shed abroad in our hearts by the Holy Ghost which is given unto us.

5:6    因我們還軟弱的時候，基督就按所定的日期為罪人死。
For when we were yet without strength, in due time Christ died for the ungodly.

5:7    為義人死，是少有的，為仁人死，或者有敢作的。
For scarcely for a righteous man will one die: yet peradventure for a good man some would even dare to die.

5:8    惟有基督在我們還作罪人的時候為我們死，神的愛就在此向我們顯明瞭。
But God commendeth his love toward us, in that, while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us.

5:9    現在我們既靠著他的血稱義，就更要藉著他免去神的忿怒。
Much more then, being now justified by his blood, we shall be saved from wrath through him.

5:10    因為我們作仇敵的時候，且藉著神兒子的死，得與神和好，既已和好，就更要因他的生得救了。
For if, when we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more, being reconciled, we shall be saved by his life.

5:11    不但如此，我們既藉著我主耶穌基督，得與神和好，也就藉著他，以神為樂。
And not only so, but we also joy in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom we have now received the atonement.

5:12    這就如罪是從一人入了世界，死又是從罪來的，於是死就臨到眾人，因為眾人都犯了罪。
Wherefore, as by one man sin entered into the world, and death by sin; and so death passed upon all men, for that all have sinned:

5:13    沒有律法之先，罪已經在世上。但沒有律法，罪也不算罪。
(For until the law sin was in the world: but sin is not imputed when there is no law.

5:14    然而從亞當到摩西，死就作了王，連那些不與亞當犯一樣罪過的，也在他的權下。亞當乃是那以後要來之人的豫像。
Nevertheless death reigned from Adam to Moses, even over them that had not sinned after the similitude of Adam's transgression, who is the figure of him that was to come.

5:15    只是過犯不如恩賜。若因一人的過犯，眾人都死了，何況神的恩典，與那因耶穌基督一人恩典中的賞賜，豈不更加倍的臨到眾人嗎。
But not as the offence, so also is the free gift. For if through the offence of one many be dead, much more the grace of God, and the gift by grace, which is by one man, Jesus Christ, hath abounded unto many.



5:16    因一人犯罪就定罪，也不如恩賜。原來審判是由一人而定罪，恩賜乃是由許多過犯而稱義。
And not as it was by one that sinned, so is the gift: for the judgment was by one to condemnation, but the free gift is of many offences unto justification.

5:17    若因一人的過犯，死就因這一人作了王，何況那些受洪恩又蒙所賜之義的，豈不更要因耶穌基督一人在生命中作王嗎。
For if by one man's offence death reigned by one; much more they which receive abundance of grace and of the gift of righteousness shall reign in life by one, Jesus Christ.)

5:18    如此說來，因一次的過犯，眾人都被定罪，照樣，因一次的義行，眾人也就被稱義得生命了。
Therefore as by the offence of one judgment came upon all men to condemnation; even so by the righteousness of one the free gift came upon all men unto justification of life.

5:19    因一人的悖逆，眾人成為罪人，照樣，因一人的順從，眾人也成為義了。
For as by one man's disobedience many were made sinners, so by the obedience of one shall many be made righteous.

5:20    律法本是外添的，叫過犯顯多。只是罪在那裡顯多，恩典就更顯多了。
Moreover the law entered, that the offence might abound. But where sin abounded, grace did much more abound:

5:21    就如罪作王叫人死，照樣恩典也藉著義作王，叫人因我們的主耶穌基督得永生。
That as sin hath reigned unto death, even so might grace reign through righteousness unto eternal life by Jesus Christ our Lord.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


6:1    這樣，怎嗎說呢。我們可以仍在罪中，叫恩典顯多嗎。
What shall we say then? Shall we continue in sin, that grace may abound?

6:2    斷乎不可。我們在罪上死了的人，豈可仍在罪中活著呢。
God forbid. How shall we, that are dead to sin, live any longer therein?

6:3    豈不知我們這受洗歸入基督耶穌的人，是受洗歸入他的死嗎。
Know ye not, that so many of us as were baptized into Jesus Christ were baptized into his death?

6:4    所已，我們藉著洗禮歸入死，和他一同埋葬，原是叫我們一舉一動有新生的樣式，像基督藉著父的榮耀從死裡復活一樣。
Therefore we are buried with him by baptism into death: that like as Christ was raised up from the dead by the glory of the Father, even so we also should walk in newness of life.

6:5    我們若在他死的形狀上與他聯合，也要在他復活的形狀上與他聯合。
For if we have been planted together in the likeness of his death, we shall be also in the likeness of his resurrection:

6:6    因為知道我們的舊人和他同定十字架，使罪身滅絕，叫我們不再作罪的奴僕。
Knowing this, that our old man is crucified with him, that the body of sin might be destroyed, that henceforth we should not serve sin.

6:7    因為已死的人，是脫離了罪。
For he that is dead is freed from sin.

6:8    我們若是與基督同死，就信必與他同活。
Now if we be dead with Christ, we believe that we shall also live with him:

6:9    因為知道基督既從死裡復活，就不再死，死也不再作他的主了。
Knowing that Christ being raised from the dead dieth no more; death hath no more dominion over him.

6:10    他死是向罪死了，只有一次。他活是向神活著。
For in that he died, he died unto sin once: but in that he liveth, he liveth unto God.

6:11    這樣，你們向罪也當看自己是死的。向神在基督耶穌裡卻當看自己是活的。
Likewise reckon ye also yourselves to be dead indeed unto sin, but alive unto God through Jesus Christ our Lord.

6:12    所以不要容罪在你們必死的身上作王，使你們順從身子的私慾。
Let not sin therefore reign in your mortal body, that ye should obey it in the lusts thereof.

6:13    也不要將你們的肢體獻給罪作不義的器具。倒要像從死裡復活的人，將自己獻給神。並將肢體作義的器具獻給神。
Neither yield ye your members as instruments of unrighteousness unto sin: but yield yourselves unto God, as those that are alive from the dead, and your members as instruments of righteousness unto God.

6:14    罪必不能作你們的主。因為你們不在律法之下，乃在恩典之下。
For sin shall not have dominion over you: for ye are not under the law, but under grace.

6:15    這卻怎嗎樣呢。我們在恩典之下，不在律法之下，就可以犯罪嗎。斷乎不可。
What then? shall we sin, because we are not under the law, but under grace? God forbid.

6:16    豈不曉得你們獻上自己作奴僕，順從誰，就作誰的奴僕嗎。或作罪的奴僕，以至於死。或作順命的奴僕，以至成義。
Know ye not, that to whom ye yield yourselves servants to obey, his servants ye are to whom ye obey; whether of sin unto death, or of obedience unto righteousness?

6:17    感謝神，因為你們從前雖然作罪的奴僕，現今卻從心裡順服了所傳給你們道理的模範。
But God be thanked, that ye were the servants of sin, but ye have obeyed from the heart that form of doctrine which was delivered you.

6:18    你們既從罪裡得了釋放，就作了義的奴僕。
Being then made free from sin, ye became the servants of righteousness.

6:19    我因你們肉體的軟弱，就照人的常話對你們說，你們從前怎樣將肢體獻給不潔不法作奴僕，以至於不法。現今也要照樣將肢體獻給義作奴僕，以至於成聖。
I speak after the manner of men because of the infirmity of your flesh: for as ye have yielded your members servants to uncleanness and to iniquity unto iniquity; even so now yield your members servants to righteousness unto holiness.

6:20    因為你們作罪的奴僕的時候，就不被義約束了。
For when ye were the servants of sin, ye were free from righteousness.

6:21    你們現今所看為羞恥的事，當日有什麼果子呢。那些事的結局就是死。
What fruit had ye then in those things whereof ye are now ashamed? for the end of those things is death.

6:22    但現今你們既從罪裡得了釋放，作了神的奴僕，就有成聖的果子，那結局就是永生。
But now being made free from sin, and become servants to God, ye have your fruit unto holiness, and the end everlasting life.

6:23    因為罪的工價乃是死。惟有神的恩賜，在我們的主基督耶穌裡乃是永生。
For the wages of sin is death; but the gift of God is eternal life through Jesus Christ our Lord.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


7:1    弟兄們，我現在對明白律法的人說，你們豈不曉得律法管人是在活著的時候嗎。
Know ye not, brethren, (for I speak to them that know the law,) how that the law hath dominion over a man as long as he liveth?

7:2    就如女人有了丈夫，丈夫還活著，就被律法約束。丈夫若死了，就脫離了丈夫的律法。
For the woman which hath an husband is bound by the law to her husband so long as he liveth; but if the husband be dead, she is loosed from the law of her husband.

7:3    所以丈夫活著，她若歸於別人，便叫淫婦。丈夫若死了，她就脫離了丈夫的律法，雖然歸於別人，也不是淫婦。
So then if, while her husband liveth, she be married to another man, she shall be called an adulteress: but if her husband be dead, she is free from that law; so that she is no adulteress, though she be married to another man.

7:4    我的弟兄們，這樣說來，你們藉著基督的身體，在律法上也是死了。叫你們歸於別人，就是歸於那從死裡復活的，叫我們結果子給神。
Wherefore, my brethren, ye also are become dead to the law by the body of Christ; that ye should be married to another, even to him who is raised from the dead, that we should bring forth fruit unto God.

7:5    因為我們屬肉體的時候，那因律法而生的惡欲，就在我們肢體中發動，以致結成死亡的果子。
For when we were in the flesh, the motions of sins, which were by the law, did work in our members to bring forth fruit unto death.

7:6    但我們既然在捆我們的律法上死了，現今就脫離了律法，叫我們服事主，要按著心靈（心靈或作聖靈）的新樣，不按著儀文的舊樣。
But now we are delivered from the law, that being dead wherein we were held; that we should serve in newness of spirit, and not in the oldness of the letter.

7:7    這樣，我們可說什麼呢。律法是罪嗎。斷乎不是。只是非因律法，我就不知何為罪。非律法說，不可起貪心。我就不知何為貪心。
What shall we say then? Is the law sin? God forbid. Nay, I had not known sin, but by the law: for I had not known lust, except the law had said, Thou shalt not covet.

7:8    然而罪趁著機會，就藉著誡命叫諸般的貪心在我裡頭髮動。因為沒有律法罪是死的。
But sin, taking occasion by the commandment, wrought in me all manner of concupiscence. For without the law sin was dead.

7:9    我以前沒有律法是活著的，但是誡命來到，罪又活了，我就死了。
For I was alive without the law once: but when the commandment came, sin revived, and I died.

7:10    那本來叫人活的誡命，反倒叫我死。
And the commandment, which was ordained to life, I found to be unto death.

7:11    因為罪趁著機會，就藉著誡命引誘我，並且殺了我。
For sin, taking occasion by the commandment, deceived me, and by it slew me.

7:12    這樣看來，律法是聖潔的，誡命也是聖潔，公義，良善的。
Wherefore the law is holy, and the commandment holy, and just, and good.

7:13    既然如此，那良善的是叫我死嗎。斷乎不是。叫我死的乃是罪。但罪藉著那良善的叫我死，就顯出真是罪。叫罪因著誡命更顯出是惡極了。
Was then that which is good made death unto me? God forbid. But sin, that it might appear sin, working death in me by that which is good; that sin by the commandment might become exceeding sinful.

7:14    我們原曉得律法是屬乎靈的，但我是屬乎肉體的，是已經賣給罪了。
For we know that the law is spiritual: but I am carnal, sold under sin.

7:15    因為我所作的，我自己不明白。我所願意的，我並不作。我所恨惡的，我倒去作。
For that which I do I allow not: for what I would, that do I not; but what I hate, that do I.

7:16    若我所作的，是我所不願意的，我就應承律法是善的。
If then I do that which I would not, I consent unto the law that it is good.

7:17    既是這樣，就不是我作的，乃是住在我裡頭的罪作的。
Now then it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.

7:18    我也知道，在我裡頭，就是我肉體之中，沒有良善。因為立志為善由得我，只是行出來由不得我。
For I know that in me (that is, in my flesh,) dwelleth no good thing: for to will is present with me; but how to perform that which is good I find not.

7:19    故此，我所願意的善，我反不作。我所不願意的惡，我倒去作。
For the good that I would I do not: but the evil which I would not, that I do.

7:20    若我去作所不願意作的，就不是我作的，乃是住在我裡頭的罪作的。
Now if I do that I would not, it is no more I that do it, but sin that dwelleth in me.

7:21    我覺得有個律，就是我願意為善的時候，便有惡與我同在。
I find then a law, that, when I would do good, evil is present with me.

7:22    因為按著我裡面的意思。（原文作人）我是喜歡神的律。
For I delight in the law of God after the inward man:

7:23    但我覺得肢體中另有個律，和我心中的律交戰，把我擄去叫我附從那肢體中犯罪的律。
But I see another law in my members, warring against the law of my mind, and bringing me into captivity to the law of sin which is in my members.

7:24    我真是苦阿，誰能救我脫離這取死的身體呢。
O wretched man that I am! who shall deliver me from the body of this death?

7:25    感謝神，靠著我們的主耶穌基督就能脫離了這樣看來，我以內心順服神的律。我肉身卻順服罪的律了。
I thank God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then with the mind I myself serve the law of God; but with the flesh the law of sin.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


8:1    如今那些在基督耶穌裡的，就不定罪了。
There is therefore now no condemnation to them which are in Christ Jesus, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

8:2    因為賜生命的聖靈的律，在基督耶穌裡釋放了我，使我脫離罪和死的律了。
For the law of the Spirit of life in Christ Jesus hath made me free from the law of sin and death.

8:3    律法既因肉體軟弱，有所不能行的，神就差遣自己的兒子，成為罪身的形狀，羅08：03）作了贖罪祭，在肉體中定了罪案，
For what the law could not do, in that it was weak through the flesh, God sending his own Son in the likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin, condemned sin in the flesh:

8:4    使律法的義成就在我們這不隨從肉體，只隨從聖靈的人身上。
That the righteousness of the law might be fulfilled in us, who walk not after the flesh, but after the Spirit.

8:5    因為隨從肉體的人體貼肉體的事，隨從聖靈的人體貼聖靈的事。
For they that are after the flesh do mind the things of the flesh; but they that are after the Spirit the things of the Spirit.

8:6    體貼肉體的，就是死，體貼聖靈的，乃是生命，平安。
For to be carnally minded is death; but to be spiritually minded is life and peace.

8:7    原來體貼肉體的，就是與神為仇。因為不服神的律法，也是不能服。
Because the carnal mind is enmity against God: for it is not subject to the law of God, neither indeed can be.

8:8    而且屬肉體的人，不能得神的喜歡。
So then they that are in the flesh cannot please God.

8:9    如果神的靈住在你們心裡，你們就不屬肉體，乃屬聖靈了。人若沒有基督的靈，就不是屬基督的。
But ye are not in the flesh, but in the Spirit, if so be that the Spirit of God dwell in you. Now if any man have not the Spirit of Christ, he is none of his.

8:10    基督若在你們心裡，身體就因罪而死，心靈卻因義而活。
And if Christ be in you, the body is dead because of sin; but the Spirit is life because of righteousness.

8:11    然而叫耶穌從死裡復活者的靈，若住在你們心裡，那叫基督耶穌從死裡復活的，也必藉著住在你們心裡的聖靈，使你們必死的身體又活過來。
But if the Spirit of him that raised up Jesus from the dead dwell in you, he that raised up Christ from the dead shall also quicken your mortal bodies by his Spirit that dwelleth in you.

8:12    弟兄們，這樣看來，我們並不是欠肉體的債，去順從肉體活著。
Therefore, brethren, we are debtors, not to the flesh, to live after the flesh.

8:13    你們若順從肉體活著必要死。若靠著聖靈治死身體的惡行必要活著。
For if ye live after the flesh, ye shall die: but if ye through the Spirit do mortify the deeds of the body, ye shall live.

8:14    因為凡被神的靈引導的，都是神的兒子。
For as many as are led by the Spirit of God, they are the sons of God.

8:15    你們所受的不是奴僕的心，仍舊害怕。所受的乃是兒子的心，因此我們呼叫阿爸，父。
For ye have not received the spirit of bondage again to fear; but ye have received the Spirit of adoption, whereby we cry, Abba, Father.

8:16    聖靈與我們的心同證我們是神的兒女。
The Spirit itself beareth witness with our spirit, that we are the children of God:

8:17    既是兒女，便是後嗣，就是神的後嗣，和基督同作後嗣。如果我們和他一同受苦，也必和他一同得榮耀。
And if children, then heirs; heirs of God, and joint-heirs with Christ; if so be that we suffer with him, that we may be also glorified together.

8:18    我想現在的苦楚，若比將來要顯於我們的榮耀，就不足介意了。
For I reckon that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory which shall be revealed in us.

8:19    受造之物，切望等候神的眾子顯出來。
For the earnest expectation of the creature waiteth for the manifestation of the sons of God.

8:20    因為受造之物服在虛空之下，不是自己願意，乃是因那叫他如此的。
For the creature was made subject to vanity, not willingly, but by reason of him who hath subjected the same in hope,

8:21    但受造之物仍然指望脫離敗壞的轄制，得享神兒女自由的榮耀。（享原文作入）
Because the creature itself also shall be delivered from the bondage of corruption into the glorious liberty of the children of God.

8:22    我們知道一切受造之物，一同嘆息勞苦，直到如今。
For we know that the whole creation groaneth and travaileth in pain together until now.

8:23    不但如此，就是我們這有聖靈初結果子的，也是自己心裡嘆息，等候得著兒子的名分，乃是我們的身體得贖。
And not only they, but ourselves also, which have the firstfruits of the Spirit, even we ourselves groan within ourselves, waiting for the adoption, to wit, the redemption of our body.

8:24    我們得救是在乎盼望。只是所見的盼望不是盼望。誰還盼望他所見的呢。（有古卷作人所看見的何必再盼望呢）
For we are saved by hope: but hope that is seen is not hope: for what a man seeth, why doth he yet hope for?

8:25    但我們若盼望那所不見的，就必忍耐等候。
But if we hope for that we see not, then do we with patience wait for it.

8:26    況且我們的軟弱有聖靈幫助，我們本不曉得當怎樣禱告，只是聖靈親自用說不出來的嘆息，替我們禱告。
Likewise the Spirit also helpeth our infirmities: for we know not what we should pray for as we ought: but the Spirit itself maketh intercession for us with groanings which cannot be uttered.

8:27    鑑查人心的，曉得聖靈的意思因為聖靈照著神的旨意替聖徒祈求。
And he that searcheth the hearts knoweth what is the mind of the Spirit, because he maketh intercession for the saints according to the will of God.

8:28    我們曉得萬事都互相效力，叫愛神的人得益處，就是按他旨意被召的人。
And we know that all things work together for good to them that love God, to them who are the called according to his purpose.

8:29    因為他豫先所知道的人，就豫先定下效法他兒子的模樣，使他兒子在許多弟兄中作長子。
For whom he did foreknow, he also did predestinate to be conformed to the image of his Son, that he might be the firstborn among many brethren.

8:30    豫先所定下的人又召他們來。所召來的人，又稱他們為義。所稱為義的人，又叫他們得榮耀。
Moreover whom he did predestinate, them he also called: and whom he called, them he also justified: and whom he justified, them he also glorified.

8:31    既是這樣，還有什麼說的呢。神若幫助我們，誰能抵擋我們呢。
What shall we then say to these things? If God be for us, who can be against us?



8:32    神既不愛惜自己的兒子為我們眾人舍了，豈不也把萬物和他一同白白的賜給我們嗎。
He that spared not his own Son, but delivered him up for us all, how shall he not with him also freely give us all things?

8:33    誰能控告神所揀選的人呢。有神稱他們為義了。（或作是稱他們為義的神嗎）
Who shall lay any thing to the charge of God's elect? It is God that justifieth.

8:34    誰能定他們的罪呢。有基督耶穌已經死了，而且從死裡復活，現今在神的右邊，也替我們祈求。（有基督云云或作是已經死了而且從死裡復活現今在神的右邊也替我們祈求的基督耶穌嗎）
Who is he that condemneth? It is Christ that died, yea rather, that is risen again, who is even at the right hand of God, who also maketh intercession for us.

8:35    誰能使我們與基督的愛隔絕呢。難道是患難嗎，是困苦嗎，是逼迫嗎，是肌餓嗎，是赤身露體嗎，是危險嗎，是刀劍嗎。
Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? shall tribulation, or distress, or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or peril, or sword?

8:36    如經上所記，我們為你的緣故，終日被殺。人看我們如將宰的羊
As it is written, For thy sake we are killed all the day long; we are accounted as sheep for the slaughter.

8:37    然而靠著我們的主，在這一切的事上，已經得勝有餘了。
Nay, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him that loved us.

8:38    因為我深信無論是生，是天使，是掌權的，是有能的，是現在的事，是將來的事，
For I am persuaded, that neither death, nor life, nor angels, nor principalities, nor powers, nor things present, nor things to come,

8:39    是高處的，是低處的，是別的受造之物，都不能叫我們與神的愛隔絕。這愛是在我們的主基督裡的。
Nor height, nor depth, nor any other creature, shall be able to separate us from the love of God, which is in Christ Jesus our Lord.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


9:1    我在基督裡說真話，並不謊言，有我良心被聖靈感動，給我作見證。
I say the truth in Christ, I lie not, my conscience also bearing me witness in the Holy Ghost,

9:2    我是大有憂愁，心裡時常傷痛。
That I have great heaviness and continual sorrow in my heart.

9:3    為我弟兄，我骨肉之親，就是自己被咒詛，與基督分離，我也願意。
For I could wish that myself were accursed from Christ for my brethren, my kinsmen according to the flesh:

9:4    他們是以色列人。那兒子的名分，榮耀，諸約，律法，禮儀，應許，都是他們的。
Who are Israelites; to whom pertaineth the adoption, and the glory, and the covenants, and the giving of the law, and the service of God, and the promises;

9:5    列祖就是他們的祖宗，按肉體說，基督也是從他們出來的，他是在萬有之上，永遠可稱頌的神。阿們。
Whose are the fathers, and of whom as concerning the flesh Christ came, who is over all, God blessed for ever. Amen.

9:6    這不是說神的話落了空。因為從以色列生的，不都是以色列人。
Not as though the word of God hath taken none effect. For they are not all Israel, which are of Israel:

9:7    也不因為是亞伯拉罕的後裔，就都作他的兒女。惟獨從以撒生的，才要稱為你的後裔。
Neither, because they are the seed of Abraham, are they all children: but, In Isaac shall thy seed be called.

9:8    這就是說，肉身所生的兒女，不是神的兒女。惟獨那應許的兒女，才算是後裔。
That is, They which are the children of the flesh, these are not the children of God: but the children of the promise are counted for the seed.

9:9    因為所應許的話是這樣說，到明年這時候我要來，撒拉必生一個兒子。
For this is the word of promise, At this time will I come, and Sarah shall have a son.

9:10    不但如此，還有利百加，既從一個人，就是從我們的祖宗以撒懷了孕。
And not only this; but when Rebecca also had conceived by one, even by our father Isaac;

9:11    （雙子還沒生下來，善惡還沒有作出來，只因要顯明神揀選人的旨意，不在乎人的行為，乃在乎召人的主）。
(For the children being not yet born, neither having done any good or evil, that the purpose of God according to election might stand, not of works, but of him that calleth;)

9:12    神就對利百加說，將來大的要服事小的。
It was said unto her, The elder shall serve the younger.

9:13    正如經上所記，雅各是我所愛的，以掃是我所惡的。
As it is written, Jacob have I loved, but Esau have I hated.

9:14    這樣，我們可說什麼呢。難道神有什麼不公平嗎。斷乎沒有。
What shall we say then? Is there unrighteousness with God? God forbid.

9:15    因他對摩西說，我要憐憫誰，就憐憫誰，要恩待誰，就恩待誰。
For he saith to Moses, I will have mercy on whom I will have mercy, and I will have compassion on whom I will have compassion.

9:16    據此看來，這不在乎那定意的，也不在乎那奔跑的，只在乎發憐憫的神。
So then it is not of him that willeth, nor of him that runneth, but of God that sheweth mercy.

9:17    因為經上有話向法老說，我將你興起來，特要在你身上彰顯我的權能，並要使我的名傳遍天下。
For the scripture saith unto Pharaoh, Even for this same purpose have I raised thee up, that I might shew my power in thee, and that my name might be declared throughout all the earth.

9:18    如此看來，神要憐憫誰，就憐憫誰，要叫誰剛硬，就叫誰剛硬。
Therefore hath he mercy on whom he will have mercy, and whom he will he hardeneth.

9:19    這樣，你必對我說，他為什麼還指責人呢。有誰抗拒他的旨意呢。
Thou wilt say then unto me, Why doth he yet find fault? For who hath resisted his will?

9:20    你這個人哪，你是誰，竟敢向神強嘴呢。受造之物豈能對造他的說，你為什麼這樣造我呢。
Nay but, O man, who art thou that repliest against God? Shall the thing formed say to him that formed it, Why hast thou made me thus?



9:21    陶匠難道沒有權柄，從一團泥裡拿一塊作成貴重的器皿，又拿一塊作成卑賤的器皿嗎。
Hath not the potter power over the clay, of the same lump to make one vessel unto honour, and another unto dishonour?

9:22    倘若神要顯明他的忿怒，彰顯他的權能，就多多忍耐寬容那可怒預備遭毀滅的器皿。
What if God, willing to shew his wrath, and to make his power known, endured with much longsuffering the vessels of wrath fitted to destruction:

9:23    又要將他豐盛的榮耀，彰顯在那蒙憐憫早豫備得榮耀的器皿上。
And that he might make known the riches of his glory on the vessels of mercy, which he had afore prepared unto glory,

9:24    這器皿就是我們被神所召的，不但是從猶太人中，也是從外邦人中，這有什麼不可呢。
Even us, whom he hath called, not of the Jews only, but also of the Gentiles?

9:25    就像神在何西阿書上說，那本來不是我子民的，我要稱為我的子民。本來不是蒙愛的，我要稱為蒙愛的。
As he saith also in Osee, I will call them my people, which were not my people; and her beloved, which was not beloved.

9:26    從前在什麼地方對他們說，你們不是我的子民，將來就在那裡稱他們為永生神的兒子。
And it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people; there shall they be called the children of the living God.

9:27    以賽亞指著以色列人喊著說，以色列人雖多如海沙，得救的不過是剩下的餘數。
Esaias also crieth concerning Israel, Though the number of the children of Israel be as the sand of the sea, a remnant shall be saved:

9:28    因為主要在世上施行他的話，叫他的話都成全，速速的完結。
For he will finish the work, and cut it short in righteousness: because a short work will the Lord make upon the earth.

9:29    又如以賽亞先前說過，若不是萬軍之主給我們存留餘種，我們早已像所多瑪，蛾摩拉的樣子了。
And as Esaias said before, Except the Lord of Sabaoth had left us a seed, we had been as Sodoma, and been made like unto Gomorrha.

9:30    這樣，我們可說什麼呢。那本來不追求義的外邦人，反得了義，就是因信而得的義。
What shall we say then? That the Gentiles, which followed not after righteousness, have attained to righteousness, even the righteousness which is of faith.

9:31    但以色列人追求律法的義，反得不著律法的義。
But Israel, which followed after the law of righteousness, hath not attained to the law of righteousness.

9:32    這是什麼緣故呢。是因為他們不憑著信心求，只憑著行為求。他們正跌在那絆腳石上。
Wherefore? Because they sought it not by faith, but as it were by the works of the law. For they stumbled at that stumblingstone;

9:33    就如經上所記，我在錫安放一塊絆腳的石頭，跌人的磐石。信靠他的人必不至於羞愧。
As it is written, Behold, I lay in Sion a stumblingstone and rock of offence: and whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


10:1    弟兄們，我心裡所願的，向神所求的，是要以色列人得救。
Brethren, my heart's desire and prayer to God for Israel is, that they might be saved.

10:2    我們可以證明他們向神有熱心，但不是按著真知識。
For I bear them record that they have a zeal of God, but not according to knowledge.

10:3    因為不知道神的義，想要立自己的義，就不服神的義了。
For they being ignorant of God's righteousness, and going about to establish their own righteousness, have not submitted themselves unto the righteousness of God.

10:4    律法的總結就是基督，使凡信他的都得著義。
For Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to every one that believeth.

10:5    摩西寫著說，人若行那出於律法的義，就必因此活著。
For Moses describeth the righteousness which is of the law, That the man which doeth those things shall live by them.

10:6    惟有出於信心的義如此說，你不要心裡說，誰要升到天上去呢。就是要領下基督來。
But the righteousness which is of faith speaketh on this wise, Say not in thine heart, Who shall ascend into heaven? (that is, to bring Christ down from above:)

10:7    誰要下到陰間去呢。就是要領基督從死裡上來。
Or, Who shall descend into the deep? (that is, to bring up Christ again from the dead.)

10:8    他到底怎嗎說呢。他說，這道離你不遠，正在你口裡，在你心裡。就是我們所傳信主的道。
But what saith it? The word is nigh thee, even in thy mouth, and in thy heart: that is, the word of faith, which we preach;

10:9    你若口裡認耶穌為主，心裡信神叫他從死裡復活，就必得救。
That if thou shalt confess with thy mouth the Lord Jesus, and shalt believe in thine heart that God hath raised him from the dead, thou shalt be saved.

10:10    因為人心裡相信，就可以稱義。口裡承認，就可以得救。
For with the heart man believeth unto righteousness; and with the mouth confession is made unto salvation.

10:11    經上說，凡信他的人，必不至於羞愧。
For the scripture saith, Whosoever believeth on him shall not be ashamed.

10:12    猶太人和希臘人，並沒有分別。因為眾人同有一位主，他也厚待一切求告他的人。
For there is no difference between the Jew and the Greek: for the same Lord over all is rich unto all that call upon him.

10:13    因為凡求告主名的，就必得救。
For whosoever shall call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.

10:14    然而人未曾信他，怎能求他呢。未曾聽見他，怎能信他呢。沒有傳道的，怎能聽見呢。
How then shall they call on him in whom they have not believed? and how shall they believe in him of whom they have not heard? and how shall they hear without a preacher?



10:15    若沒有奉差遣，怎能傳道呢。如經上所記，報福音傳喜信的人，他們的腳蹤何等佳美，
And how shall they preach, except they be sent? as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and bring glad tidings of good things!

10:16    只是人沒有都聽從福音。因為以賽亞說，主阿，我們所傳的有誰信呢。
But they have not all obeyed the gospel. For Esaias saith, Lord, who hath believed our report?

10:17    可見通道是從聽道來的，聽道是從基督的話來的。
So then faith cometh by hearing, and hearing by the word of God.

10:18    但我說，人沒有聽見嗎。誠然聽見了。他們的聲音傳遍天下，他們的言語傳到地極。
But I say, Have they not heard? Yes verily, their sound went into all the earth, and their words unto the ends of the world.

10:19    我再說，以色列人不知道嗎。先有摩西說，我要用那不成子民的，惹動你們的憤恨。我要用那無知的民，觸動你們的怒氣。
But I say, Did not Israel know? First Moses saith, I will provoke you to jealousy by them that are no people, and by a foolish nation I will anger you.

10:20    又有以賽亞放膽說，沒有尋梢我的，我叫他們遇見。沒有訪問我的，我向他們顯現。
But Esaias is very bold, and saith, I was found of them that sought me not; I was made manifest unto them that asked not after me.

10:21    至於以色列人，他說，我整天伸手招呼那悖逆頂嘴的百姓。
But to Israel he saith, All day long I have stretched forth my hands unto a disobedient and gainsaying people.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


11:1    我且說，神棄絕了他的百姓嗎。斷乎沒有。因為我也是以色列人，亞伯拉罕的後裔，屬便雅憫支派的。
I say then, Hath God cast away his people? God forbid. For I also am an Israelite, of the seed of Abraham, of the tribe of Benjamin.

11:2    神並每有棄絕他豫先所知道的百姓。你們豈不曉得經上論到以利亞是怎嗎說的呢。他在神面前怎樣控告以色列人，說，
God hath not cast away his people which he foreknew. Wot ye not what the scripture saith of Elias? how he maketh intercession to God against Israel, saying,

11:3    主阿，他們殺了你的先知，拆了你的祭壇，只剩下我一個人，他們還要尋索我的命。
Lord, they have killed thy prophets, and digged down thine altars; and I am left alone, and they seek my life.

11:4    神的回話是怎嗎說的呢。他說，我為自己留下七千人，是未曾向巴力屈膝的。
But what saith the answer of God unto him? I have reserved to myself seven thousand men, who have not bowed the knee to the image of Baal.

11:5    如今也是這樣，照著揀選的恩典還有所留的餘數。
Even so then at this present time also there is a remnant according to the election of grace.

11:6    既是出於恩典，就不在乎行為。不然，恩典就不是恩典了。
And if by grace, then is it no more of works: otherwise grace is no more grace. But if it be of works, then is it no more grace: otherwise work is no more work.

11:7    這是怎嗎樣呢。以色列人所求的，他們沒有得著。惟有蒙揀選的人得著了，其餘的就成了頑梗不化的。
What then? Israel hath not obtained that which he seeketh for; but the election hath obtained it, and the rest were blinded.

11:8    如經上所記，神給他們昏迷的心，眼睛不能看見，耳朵不能聽見，直到今日。
(According as it is written, God hath given them the spirit of slumber, eyes that they should not see, and ears that they should not hear;) unto this day.

11:9    大衛也說，願他們的筵席變為網羅，變為機檻，變為絆腳石，作他們的報應。
And David saith, Let their table be made a snare, and a trap, and a stumblingblock, and a recompence unto them:

11:10    願他們的眼睛昏蒙，不得看見。願你時常彎下他們的腰。
Let their eyes be darkened, that they may not see, and bow down their back alway.

11:11    我且說，他們失腳是要他們跌倒嗎。斷乎不是。反倒因他們的過失，救恩便臨到外邦人，要激動他們發憤。
I say then, Have they stumbled that they should fall? God forbid: but rather through their fall salvation is come unto the Gentiles, for to provoke them to jealousy.

11:12    若他們的過失，為天下的富足，他們的缺乏，為外邦人的富足。何況他們的豐滿呢。
Now if the fall of them be the riches of the world, and the diminishing of them the riches of the Gentiles; how much more their fulness?

11:13    我對你們外邦人說這話。因我是外邦人的使徒，所以敬重我的職分。（敬重原文作榮耀）
For I speak to you Gentiles, inasmuch as I am the apostle of the Gentiles, I magnify mine office:

11:14    或者可已激動我骨肉之親發憤，好救他們一些人。
If by any means I may provoke to emulation them which are my flesh, and might save some of them.

11:15    若他們被丟棄，天下就得與神和好，他們被收納，豈不是死而復生嗎。
For if the casting away of them be the reconciling of the world, what shall the receiving of them be, but life from the dead?

11:16    所獻的新面，若是聖潔，全團也就聖潔了。樹根若是聖潔，樹枝也就聖潔了。
For if the firstfruit be holy, the lump is also holy: and if the root be holy, so are the branches.

11:17    若有幾根枝子被折下來，你這野橄欖得接在其中，一同得著橄欖根的肥汁。
And if some of the branches be broken off, and thou, being a wild olive tree, wert graffed in among them, and with them partakest of the root and fatness of the olive tree;

11:18    你就不可向舊枝子誇口，若是誇口，當知道不是你託著根，乃是根託著你。
Boast not against the branches. But if thou boast, thou bearest not the root, but the root thee.

11:19    你若說，那枝子被折下來，是特為叫我接上。
Thou wilt say then, The branches were broken off, that I might be graffed in.

11:20    不錯。他們因為不信，所以被折下來。你因為信，所以立得住。你不可自高，反要懼怕。
Well; because of unbelief they were broken off, and thou standest by faith. Be not highminded, but fear:

11:21    神既不愛惜原來的枝子，也必不愛惜你。
For if God spared not the natural branches, take heed lest he also spare not thee.

11:22    可見神的恩慈，和嚴厲。向那跌倒的人，是嚴厲的。向你是有恩慈的，只要你長久在他的恩慈裡。不然，你也要被砍下來。
Behold therefore the goodness and severity of God: on them which fell, severity; but toward thee, goodness, if thou continue in his goodness: otherwise thou also shalt be cut off.

11:23    而且他們若不是長久不信，仍要被接上。因為神能夠把他們從新接上。
And they also, if they abide not still in unbelief, shall be graffed in: for God is able to graff them in again.

11:24    你是從那天生的野橄欖上砍下來的，尚且逆著性得接在好橄欖上，何況這本樹的枝子，要接在本樹上呢。
For if thou wert cut out of the olive tree which is wild by nature, and wert graffed contrary to nature into a good olive tree: how much more shall these, which be the natural branches, be graffed into their own olive tree?

11:25    弟兄們，我不願意你們不知道這奧祕，（恐怕你們自以為聰明）就是以色列人有幾分是硬心的，等到外邦人的數目添滿了。
For I would not, brethren, that ye should be ignorant of this mystery, lest ye should be wise in your own conceits; that blindness in part is happened to Israel, until the fulness of the Gentiles be come in.

11:26    於是以色列全家都要得救，如經上所記，必有一位救主，從錫安出來，要消除雅各家的一切罪惡。
And so all Israel shall be saved: as it is written, There shall come out of Sion the Deliverer, and shall turn away ungodliness from Jacob:

11:27    又說，我除去他們罪的時候，這就是我與他們所立的約。
For this is my covenant unto them, when I shall take away their sins.

11:28    就著福音說，他們為你們的緣故是仇敵。就著揀選說，他們為列祖的緣故是蒙愛的。
As concerning the gospel, they are enemies for your sakes: but as touching the election, they are beloved for the fathers' sakes.

11:29    因為神的恩賜和選召，是沒有後悔的。
For the gifts and calling of God are without repentance.

11:30    你們從前不順服神，如今因他們的不順服，你們倒蒙了憐恤。
For as ye in times past have not believed God, yet have now obtained mercy through their unbelief:

11:31    這樣，他們也是不順服，叫他們因著施給你們的憐恤，現在也就蒙憐恤。
Even so have these also now not believed, that through your mercy they also may obtain mercy.

11:32    因為神將眾人都圈在不順服之中，特意要憐恤眾人。
For God hath concluded them all in unbelief, that he might have mercy upon all.

11:33    深哉，神豐富的智慧和知識。他的判斷，何其難測，他的蹤跡，何其難尋，
O the depth of the riches both of the wisdom and knowledge of God! how unsearchable are his judgments, and his ways past finding out!

11:34    誰知道主的心，誰作過他的謀士呢，
For who hath known the mind of the Lord? or who hath been his counsellor?



11:35    誰是先給了他，使他後來償還呢。
Or who hath first given to him, and it shall be recompensed unto him again?

11:36    因為萬有都是本於他，倚靠他，歸於他。願榮耀歸給他，直到永遠。阿們。
For of him, and through him, and to him, are all things: to whom be glory for ever. Amen.





新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


12:1    所以弟兄們，我以神的慈悲勸你們，將身體獻上，當作活祭，是聖潔的，是神所喜悅的。你們如此事奉，乃是理所當然的。
I beseech you therefore, brethren, by the mercies of God, that ye present your bodies a living sacrifice, holy, acceptable unto God, which is your reasonable service.

12:2    不要效法這世界。只要心意更新而變化，叫你們察驗何為神的善良，純全可喜悅的旨意。
And be not conformed to this world: but be ye transformed by the renewing of your mind, that ye may prove what is that good, and acceptable, and perfect, will of God.

12:3    我憑著所賜我的恩，對你們各人說，不要看自己過於所當看的。要照著神所分給各人信心的大小，看得合乎中道。
For I say, through the grace given unto me, to every man that is among you, not to think of himself more highly than he ought to think; but to think soberly, according as God hath dealt to every man the measure of faith.

12:4    正如我們一個身子上有好些肢體，肢體也不都是一樣的用處。
For as we have many members in one body, and all members have not the same office:

12:5    我們這許多人，在基督裡成為一身，互相聯絡作肢體，也是如此。
So we, being many, are one body in Christ, and every one members one of another.

12:6    按我們所得的恩賜，各有不同。或說預言，就當照著信心的程度說預言
Having then gifts differing according to the grace that is given to us, whether prophecy, let us prophesy according to the proportion of faith;

12:7    或作執事，就當專一執事。或作教導的，就當專一教導。
Or ministry, let us wait on our ministering: or he that teacheth, on teaching;

12:8    或作勸化的，就當專一勸化。施捨的就當誠實。治理的，就當殷勤。憐憫人的，就當甘心。
Or he that exhorteth, on exhortation: he that giveth, let him do it with simplicity; he that ruleth, with diligence; he that sheweth mercy, with cheerfulness.

12:9    愛人不可虛假，惡要厭惡，善要親近。
Let love be without dissimulation. Abhor that which is evil; cleave to that which is good.

12:10    愛弟兄，要彼此親熱。恭敬人，要彼此推讓。
Be kindly affectioned one to another with brotherly love; in honour preferring one another;

12:11    殷勤不可懶惰。要心裡火熱。常常服事主。
Not slothful in business; fervent in spirit; serving the Lord;

12:12    在指望中要喜樂。在患難中要忍耐。禱告要恆切。
Rejoicing in hope; patient in tribulation; continuing instant in prayer;

12:13    聖徒缺乏要幫補。客要一味的款待。
Distributing to the necessity of saints; given to hospitality.

12:14    逼迫你們的，要給他們祝福。只要祝福，不可咒詛。
Bless them which persecute you: bless, and curse not.

12:15    與喜樂的人要同樂。與哀哭的人要同哭。
Rejoice with them that do rejoice, and weep with them that weep.

12:16    要彼此同心。不要志氣高大，倒要俯就卑微的人。（人或作事）不要自以為聰明。
Be of the same mind one toward another. Mind not high things, but condescend to men of low estate. Be not wise in your own conceits.

12:17    不要以惡報惡，眾人以為美的事，要留心去作。
Recompense to no man evil for evil. Provide things honest in the sight of all men.

12:18    若行，總要盡力與眾人和睦。
If it be possible, as much as lieth in you, live peaceably with all men.

12:19    親串的弟兄，不要自己伸冤，寧可讓步，聽憑主怒。（或作讓人發怒）因為經上記著，主說，伸冤在我。我必報應。
Dearly beloved, avenge not yourselves, but rather give place unto wrath: for it is written, Vengeance is mine; I will repay, saith the Lord.

12:20    所以，你的仇敵若餓了，就給他吃。若渴了，就給他喝。因為陪這樣行，就是把炭火堆在他的頭上。
Therefore if thine enemy hunger, feed him; if he thirst, give him drink: for in so doing thou shalt heap coals of fire on his head.

12:21    你不可為惡所勝，反要以善勝惡。
Be not overcome of evil, but overcome evil with good.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


13:1    在上有權柄的，人人當順服他。因為沒有權柄不是出於神的。凡掌權的都是神所命的。
Let every soul be subject unto the higher powers. For there is no power but of God: the powers that be are ordained of God.

13:2    所以抗拒掌權的，就是抗拒神的命。抗拒的必自取刑罰
Whosoever therefore resisteth the power, resisteth the ordinance of God: and they that resist shall receive to themselves damnation.

13:3    作官的原不是叫行善的懼怕，乃是叫作惡的懼怕。你願意不懼怕掌權的嗎。你只要行善，就可得他的稱讚。
For rulers are not a terror to good works, but to the evil. Wilt thou then not be afraid of the power? do that which is good, and thou shalt have praise of the same:

13:4    因為他是神的用人，是與你有益的。你若作惡，卻當懼怕。因為他不是空空的佩劍。他是神的用人，是伸冤的，刑罰那作惡的。
For he is the minister of God to thee for good. But if thou do that which is evil, be afraid; for he beareth not the sword in vain: for he is the minister of God, a revenger to execute wrath upon him that doeth evil.

13:5    所以你們必須順服，不但是因為刑罰，也是因為良心。
Wherefore ye must needs be subject, not only for wrath, but also for conscience sake.

13:6    你們納糧，也為這緣故。因他們是神的差役，常常特管這事。
For for this cause pay ye tribute also: for they are God's ministers, attending continually upon this very thing.

13:7    凡人所當得的，就給他。當得糧的，給他納糧。當得稅的，給他上稅。當懼怕的，懼怕他。當恭敬的，恭敬他。
Render therefore to all their dues: tribute to whom tribute is due; custom to whom custom; fear to whom fear; honour to whom honour.

13:8    凡事都不可虧欠人，惟有彼此相愛，要常以為虧欠。因為愛人的就完全了律法。
Owe no man any thing, but to love one another: for he that loveth another hath fulfilled the law.

13:9    像那不可姦淫，不可殺人，不可偷盜，不可貪婪，或有別的誡命，都包在愛人如己這一句話之內了。
For this, Thou shalt not commit adultery, Thou shalt not kill, Thou shalt not steal, Thou shalt not bear false witness, Thou shalt not covet; and if there be any other commandment, it is briefly comprehended in this saying, namely, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

13:10    愛是不加害與人的，所以愛就完全了律法。
Love worketh no ill to his neighbour: therefore love is the fulfilling of the law.

13:11    再者，你們曉得現今就是該趁早睡醒的時候，因為我們得救，現今比初信的時候更近了。
And that, knowing the time, that now it is high time to awake out of sleep: for now is our salvation nearer than when we believed.

13:12    黑夜已深，白晝將近。我們就當脫去闇昧的行為，帶上光明的兵器。
The night is far spent, the day is at hand: let us therefore cast off the works of darkness, and let us put on the armour of light.

13:13    行事為人要端正，好像行在白晝。不可荒宴醉酒。不可好色邪蕩。不可爭競嫉妒。
Let us walk honestly, as in the day; not in rioting and drunkenness, not in chambering and wantonness, not in strife and envying.

13:14    總要披戴主耶穌基督，不要為肉體安排，去放縱私慾。
But put ye on the Lord Jesus Christ, and make not provision for the flesh, to fulfil the lusts thereof.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


14:1    信心軟弱的，你們要接納，但不要辯論所疑惑的事。
Him that is weak in the faith receive ye, but not to doubtful disputations.

14:2    有人信百物都可吃。但那軟弱的，只吃蔬菜。
For one believeth that he may eat all things: another, who is weak, eateth herbs.

14:3    吃的人不可輕看不吃的人。不吃的人不可論斷吃的人。因為神已經收納他了。
Let not him that eateth despise him that eateth not; and let not him which eateth not judge him that eateth: for God hath received him.

14:4    你是誰，竟論斷別人的僕人呢。他或站住，或跌倒，自有他的主人在。而且他也必站住。因為主能使他站住。
Who art thou that judgest another man's servant? to his own master he standeth or falleth. Yea, he shall be holden up: for God is able to make him stand.

14:5    有人看這日比那日強，有人看日日都是一樣。只是各人心裡要意見堅定。
One man esteemeth one day above another: another esteemeth every day alike. Let every man be fully persuaded in his own mind.

14:6    守日的人，是為主守的。吃的人，是為主吃的，因他感謝神。不吃的人，是為主不吃的，也感謝神。
He that regardeth the day, regardeth it unto the Lord; and he that regardeth not the day, to the Lord he doth not regard it. He that eateth, eateth to the Lord, for he giveth God thanks; and he that eateth not, to the Lord he eateth not, and giveth God thanks.

14:7    我們沒有一個人為自己活，也沒有一個人為自己死。
For none of us liveth to himself, and no man dieth to himself.

14:8    我們若活著，是為主而活。若死了，是為主而死。所以我們或活或死，總是主的人。
For whether we live, we live unto the Lord; and whether we die, we die unto the Lord: whether we live therefore, or die, we are the Lord's.

14:9    因此基督死了，又活了，為要作死人並活人的主。
For to this end Christ both died, and rose, and revived, that he might be Lord both of the dead and living.

14:10    你這個人，為什麼論斷弟兄呢。又為什麼輕看弟兄呢。因為我們都要站在神的臺前。
But why dost thou judge thy brother? or why dost thou set at nought thy brother? for we shall all stand before the judgment seat of Christ.

14:11    經上寫著，主說，我憑著我的永生起誓，萬膝必向我跪拜，萬口必向我承認。
For it is written, As I live, saith the Lord, every knee shall bow to me, and every tongue shall confess to God.

14:12    這樣看來，我們各人必要將自己的事，在神面前說明。
So then every one of us shall give account of himself to God.

14:13    所以我們不可再彼此論斷。寧可定意誰也不給弟兄放下絆腳人之物。
Let us not therefore judge one another any more: but judge this rather, that no man put a stumblingblock or an occasion to fall in his brother's way.

14:14    我憑著主耶穌確知深信，凡物本來沒有不潔淨的。惟獨人以為不潔淨的，在他就不潔淨了。
I know, and am persuaded by the Lord Jesus, that there is nothing unclean of itself: but to him that esteemeth any thing to be unclean, to him it is unclean.

14:15    你若因食物叫弟兄憂愁，就不是按著愛人的道理行。基督已經替他死，你不可因你的食物叫他敗壞。
But if thy brother be grieved with thy meat, now walkest thou not charitably. Destroy not him with thy meat, for whom Christ died.

14:16    不可叫你的善被人毀謗。
Let not then your good be evil spoken of:

14:17    因為神的國，不在乎吃喝，只在乎公義，和平，並聖靈中的喜樂。
For the kingdom of God is not meat and drink; but righteousness, and peace, and joy in the Holy Ghost.

14:18    在這幾樣上服事基督的，就為神所喜悅，又為人所稱許。
For he that in these things serveth Christ is acceptable to God, and approved of men.

14:19    所以我們務要追求和睦的事，與彼此建立德行的事。
Let us therefore follow after the things which make for peace, and things wherewith one may edify another.

14:20    不可因食物毀壞神的工程。凡物固然潔淨，但有人因食物叫人跌倒，就是他的罪了。
For meat destroy not the work of God. All things indeed are pure; but it is evil for that man who eateth with offence.

14:21    無論是吃肉，是喝酒，是什麼別的事，叫弟兄跌倒，一概不作才好。
It is good neither to eat flesh, nor to drink wine, nor any thing whereby thy brother stumbleth, or is offended, or is made weak.

14:22    你有信心，就當在神面前守著。人在自己以為可行的事上，能不自責，就有福了。
Hast thou faith? have it to thyself before God. Happy is he that condemneth not himself in that thing which he alloweth.

14:23    若有疑心而吃的，就必有罪。因為他吃，不是出於信心。凡不出於信心的都是罪。
And he that doubteth is damned if he eat, because he eateth not of faith: for whatsoever is not of faith is sin.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


15:1    我們堅固的人，應當擔代不堅固人的軟弱，不求自己的喜悅。
We then that are strong ought to bear the infirmities of the weak, and not to please ourselves.

15:2    我們各人務要叫鄰舍喜悅，使他得益處，建立德行
Let every one of us please his neighbour for his good to edification.

15:3    因為基督也不求自己的喜悅，如經上所記，辱罵你人的辱罵，都落在我身上。
For even Christ pleased not himself; but, as it is written, The reproaches of them that reproached thee fell on me.

15:4    從前所寫的聖經都是為教訓我們寫的，叫我們因聖經所生的忍耐和安慰，可以得著盼望。
For whatsoever things were written aforetime were written for our learning, that we through patience and comfort of the scriptures might have hope.

15:5    但願賜忍耐安慰的神，叫你們彼此同心，效法基督耶穌。
Now the God of patience and consolation grant you to be likeminded one toward another according to Christ Jesus:

15:6    一心一口，榮耀神，我們主耶穌基督的父。
That ye may with one mind and one mouth glorify God, even the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:7    所以你們要彼此接納，如同基督接納你們一樣，使榮耀歸與神。
Wherefore receive ye one another, as Christ also received us to the glory of God.

15:8    我說，基督是為神真理作了受割禮人的執事，要證實所應許列祖的話。
Now I say that Jesus Christ was a minister of the circumcision for the truth of God, to confirm the promises made unto the fathers:

15:9    並叫外邦人，因他的憐憫，榮耀神。如經上所記，因此我要在外邦中稱讚你，歌頌你的名。
And that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy; as it is written, For this cause I will confess to thee among the Gentiles, and sing unto thy name.

15:10    又說，你們外邦人，當與主的百姓一同歡樂。
And again he saith, Rejoice, ye Gentiles, with his people.

15:11    又說，外邦阿，你們當讚美主。萬民哪，你們都當頌讚他。
And again, Praise the Lord, all ye Gentiles; and laud him, all ye people.

15:12    又有以賽亞說，將來有耶西的根，就是那興起來要治理外邦的。外邦人要仰望他。
And again, Esaias saith, There shall be a root of Jesse, and he that shall rise to reign over the Gentiles; in him shall the Gentiles trust.

15:13    但願使人有盼望的神，因信將諸般的喜樂平安，充滿你們的心，使你們藉著聖靈的能力，大有盼望。
Now the God of hope fill you with all joy and peace in believing, that ye may abound in hope, through the power of the Holy Ghost.

15:14    弟兄們，我自己也深信你們是滿有良善，充足了諸般的知識，也能彼此勸戒。
And I myself also am persuaded of you, my brethren, that ye also are full of goodness, filled with all knowledge, able also to admonish one another.

15:15    但我稍微放膽寫給你們，是要題醒你們的記性，特因神所給我的恩典，
Nevertheless, brethren, I have written the more boldly unto you in some sort, as putting you in mind, because of the grace that is given to me of God,

15:16    使我為外邦人作基督耶穌的僕役，作神福音的祭司，叫所獻上的外邦人，因著聖靈，成為聖潔，可蒙悅納。
That I should be the minister of Jesus Christ to the Gentiles, ministering the gospel of God, that the offering up of the Gentiles might be acceptable, being sanctified by the Holy Ghost.

15:17    所以論到神的事我在基督耶穌裡有可誇的。
I have therefore whereof I may glory through Jesus Christ in those things which pertain to God.

15:18    除了基督藉我作的那些事，我什麼都不敢題。只題他藉我言語作為，用神蹟奇事的能力，並聖靈的能力，使外邦人順服。
For I will not dare to speak of any of those things which Christ hath not wrought by me, to make the Gentiles obedient, by word and deed,

15:19    甚至我從耶路撒冷，直轉到以利哩古，到處傳了基督的福音。
Through mighty signs and wonders, by the power of the Spirit of God; so that from Jerusalem, and round about unto Illyricum, I have fully preached the gospel of Christ.

15:20    我立了志向，不在基督的名被稱過的地方傳福音，免得建造在別人的根基上。
Yea, so have I strived to preach the gospel, not where Christ was named, lest I should build upon another man's foundation:

15:21    就如經上所記，未曾聞知他資訊的，將要看見。未曾聽過的，將要明白。
But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see: and they that have not heard shall understand.

15:22    我因多次被攔阻，總不得到你們那裡去。
For which cause also I have been much hindered from coming to you.

15:23    但如今在這裡再沒有可傳的地方，而且這好幾年，我切心想望到西班牙去的時候，可以到你們那裡。
But now having no more place in these parts, and having a great desire these many years to come unto you;

15:24    盼望從你們那裡經過，得見你們，先與你們彼此交往，心裡稍微滿足，然後蒙你們送行。
Whensoever I take my journey into Spain, I will come to you: for I trust to see you in my journey, and to be brought on my way thitherward by you, if first I be somewhat filled with your company.

15:25    但現在我往耶路撒冷去，供給聖徒。
But now I go unto Jerusalem to minister unto the saints.

15:26    因為馬其頓，和亞該亞人樂意湊出捐項，給耶路撒冷聖徒中的窮人。
For it hath pleased them of Macedonia and Achaia to make a certain contribution for the poor saints which are at Jerusalem.

15:27    這固然是他們樂意的。其實也算是所欠的債。因外邦人，既然在他們屬靈的好處上有分，就當把養身之物供給他們
It hath pleased them verily; and their debtors they are. For if the Gentiles have been made partakers of their spiritual things, their duty is also to minister unto them in carnal things.

15:28    等我辨完了這事，把這善果向他們交付明白，我就要路過你們那裡，往西班牙去。
When therefore I have performed this, and have sealed to them this fruit, I will come by you into Spain.

15:29    我也曉得去的時候，必帶著基督豐盛的恩典而去。
And I am sure that, when I come unto you, I shall come in the fulness of the blessing of the gospel of Christ.

15:30    弟兄們，我藉著我們主耶穌基督，又藉著聖靈的愛，勸你們與我一同竭力，為我祈求神。
Now I beseech you, brethren, for the Lord Jesus Christ's sake, and for the love of the Spirit, that ye strive together with me in your prayers to God for me;

15:31    叫我脫離在猶太不順從的人，也叫我為耶路撒冷所辨的捐項，可蒙聖徒悅納。
That I may be delivered from them that do not believe in Judaea; and that my service which I have for Jerusalem may be accepted of the saints;

15:32    並叫我順著神的旨意，歡歡喜喜的到你們那裡，與你們同得安息。
That I may come unto you with joy by the will of God, and may with you be refreshed.

15:33    願賜平安的神，常和你們眾人同在，阿們。
Now the God of peace be with you all. Amen.



新約 -- 羅馬書(Romans) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　


16:1    我對你們舉薦我們的姊妹非比，她是堅革哩教會中的女執事。
I commend unto you Phebe our sister, which is a servant of the church which is at Cenchrea:

16:2    請你們為主接待她，合乎聖徒的體統。她在何事上，要你們幫助，你們就幫助她。因她素來幫助許多人，也幫助了我。
That ye receive her in the Lord, as becometh saints, and that ye assist her in whatsoever business she hath need of you: for she hath been a succourer of many, and of myself also.

16:3    問百基拉和亞居拉安。他們在基督耶穌裡與我同工，
Greet Priscilla and Aquila my helpers in Christ Jesus:

16:4    也為我的命，將自己的頸項，置之度外。不但我感謝他們，就是外邦的眾教會，也感謝他們。
Who have for my life laid down their own necks: unto whom not only I give thanks, but also all the churches of the Gentiles.

16:5    又問在他們家中的教會安。問我所親愛的以拜尼土安。他在亞細亞是歸基督初結的果子。
Likewise greet the church that is in their house. Salute my well-beloved Epaenetus, who is the firstfruits of Achaia unto Christ.

16:6    又問馬利亞安。她為你們多受勞苦。
Greet Mary, who bestowed much labour on us.

16:7    又問我親屬與我一同坐監的安多尼古和猶尼亞安。他們在使徒中是有名望的，也是比我先在基督裡。
Salute Andronicus and Junia, my kinsmen, and my fellow-prisoners, who are of note among the apostles, who also were in Christ before me.

16:8    又問我在主裡面所親愛的暗伯利安。
Greet Amplias my beloved in the Lord.

16:9    又問在基督裡與我們同工的耳巴奴，並我所親愛的士大古安。
Salute Urbane, our helper in Christ, and Stachys my beloved.

16:10    又問在基督裡經過試驗的亞比利安。問亞利多布家裡的人安。
Salute Apelles approved in Christ. Salute them which are of Aristobulus' household.

16:11    又問我親屬希羅天安。問拿其數家在主裡的人安。
Salute Herodion my kinsman. Greet them that be of the household of Narcissus, which are in the Lord.

16:12    又問為主勞苦的土非拿氏和土富撒氏安。問可親愛為主多受勞苦的彼息氏安。
Salute Tryphena and Tryphosa, who labour in the Lord. Salute the beloved Persis, which laboured much in the Lord.

16:13    又問在主蒙揀選的魯孚和他母親安。他的母親就是我的母親。
Salute Rufus chosen in the Lord, and his mother and mine.

16:14    又問亞遜其土，弗勒幹，黑米，八羅巴，黑馬，並與他們在一處的弟兄們安。
Salute Asyncritus, Phlegon, Hermas, Patrobas, Hermes, and the brethren which are with them.

16:15    又問非羅羅古，和猶利亞，尼利亞，和他姊妹，同阿林巴，並與他們在一處的眾聖徒安。
Salute Philologus, and Julia, Nereus, and his sister, and Olympas, and all the saints which are with them.

16:16    你們親嘴問安，彼此務要聖潔。基督的眾教會都問你們安。
Salute one another with an holy kiss. The churches of Christ salute you.

16:17    弟兄們，那些離開你們，叫你們跌倒，背乎所學之道的人，我勸你們要留意躲避他們。
Now I beseech you, brethren, mark them which cause divisions and offences contrary to the doctrine which ye have learned; and avoid them.

16:18    因為這樣的人不服事我們的主基督，只服事自己的肚腹。用花言巧語，誘惑那些老實人的心。
For they that are such serve not our Lord Jesus Christ, but their own belly; and by good words and fair speeches deceive the hearts of the simple.

16:19    你們的順服，已經傳於眾人，所以我為你們歡喜。但我願意你們在善事上聰明，在惡上愚拙。
For your obedience is come abroad unto all men. I am glad therefore on your behalf: but yet I would have you wise unto that which is good, and simple concerning evil.

16:20    賜平安的神，快要將撒但踐踏在你們腳下。願我主耶穌基督的恩，常和你們同在。
And the God of peace shall bruise Satan under your feet shortly. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.

16:21    與我同工的提摩太，和我的親屬路求，耶孫，所西巴德，問你們安。
Timotheus my workfellow, and Lucius, and Jason, and Sosipater, my kinsmen, salute you.

16:22    我這代筆寫信的德丟，在主裡面問你們安。
I Tertius, who wrote this epistle, salute you in the Lord.

16:23    那接待我，也接待全教會的該猶，問你們安。
Gaius mine host, and of the whole church, saluteth you. Erastus the chamberlain of the city saluteth you, and Quartus a brother.

16:24    城內管銀庫的以拉都，和兄弟括土，問你們安。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.

16:25    惟有神能照我傳的福音，和所講的耶穌基督，並照永古隱藏不言的奧祕，堅固你們的心。
Now to him that is of power to stablish you according to my gospel, and the preaching of Jesus Christ, according to the revelation of the mystery, which was kept secret since the world began,

16:26    這奧祕如今顯明出來，而且按著永生神的命，藉眾先知的書指示萬國的民，使他們信服真道。
But now is made manifest, and by the scriptures of the prophets, according to the commandment of the everlasting God, made known to all nations for the obedience of faith:

16:27    願榮耀因耶穌基督歸與獨一全智的神，直到永遠。阿們。
To God only wise, be glory through Jesus Christ for ever. Amen.


