

新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　


1:1    奉神旨意，蒙召作耶穌基督使徒的保羅，同兄弟所提尼，
Paul, called to be an apostle of Jesus Christ through the will of God, and Sosthenes our brother,

1:2    寫信給在哥林多神的教會，就是在基督耶穌裡成聖，蒙召作聖徒的，以及所有在各處求告我主耶穌基督之名的人。基督是他們的主，也是我們的主。
Unto the church of God which is at Corinth, to them that are sanctified in Christ Jesus, called to be saints, with all that in every place call upon the name of Jesus Christ our Lord, both theirs and ours:

1:3    願恩惠平安，從神我們的父，並主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:4    我常為你們感謝我的神，因神在基督耶穌裡所賜給你們的恩惠。
I thank my God always on your behalf, for the grace of God which is given you by Jesus Christ;

1:5    又因你們在他裡面凡事富足，口才知識都全備。
That in every thing ye are enriched by him, in all utterance, and in all knowledge;

1:6    正如我為基督作的見證，在你們心裡得以堅固。
Even as the testimony of Christ was confirmed in you:

1:7    以致你們在恩賜上沒有一樣不及人的。等候我們的主耶穌基督顯現。
So that ye come behind in no gift; waiting for the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ:

1:8    他也必堅固你們到底，叫你們在我們主耶穌基督的日子，無可責備。
Who shall also confirm you unto the end, that ye may be blameless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:9    神是信實的，你們原是被他所召，好與他兒子，我們的主耶穌基督，一同得分。
God is faithful, by whom ye were called unto the fellowship of his Son Jesus Christ our Lord.

1:10    弟兄們，我藉我們主耶穌基督的名，勸你們都說一樣的話。你們中間也不可分黨。只要一心一意彼此相合。
Now I beseech you, brethren, by the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye all speak the same thing, and that there be no divisions among you; but that ye be perfectly joined together in the same mind and in the same judgment.

1:11    因為革來氏家裡的人，曾對我題起弟兄們來，說你們中間有分爭。
For it hath been declared unto me of you, my brethren, by them which are of the house of Chloe, that there are contentions among you.

1:12    我的意思就是你們各人說，我是屬保羅的。我是屬亞波羅的。我是屬磯法的。我是屬基督的。
Now this I say, that every one of you saith, I am of Paul; and I of Apollos; and I of Cephas; and I of Christ.

1:13    基督是分開的嗎。保羅為你們釘了十字架嗎。你們是奉保羅的名受了洗嗎。
Is Christ divided? was Paul crucified for you? or were ye baptized in the name of Paul?

1:14    我感謝神，除了基列司布並該猶以外，我沒有給你們一個人施洗。
I thank God that I baptized none of you, but Crispus and Gaius;

1:15    免得有人說，你們是奉我的名受洗。
Lest any should say that I had baptized in mine own name.

1:16    我也給司提反家施過洗。此外給別人施洗沒有，我卻記不清。
And I baptized also the household of Stephanas: besides, I know not whether I baptized any other.

1:17    基督差遣我，原不是為施洗，乃是為傳福音。並不用智慧的言語，免得基督的十字架落了空。
For Christ sent me not to baptize, but to preach the gospel: not with wisdom of words, lest the cross of Christ should be made of none effect.

1:18    因為十字架的道理，在那滅亡的人為愚拙。在我們得救的人卻為神的大能。
For the preaching of the cross is to them that perish foolishness; but unto us which are saved it is the power of God.

1:19    就如經上所記，我要滅絕智慧人的智慧，廢棄聰明人的聰明。
For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and will bring to nothing the understanding of the prudent.

1:20    智慧人在那裡文士在那裡。這世上的辯士在那裡。神豈不是叫這世上的智慧變成愚拙嗎。
Where is the wise? where is the scribe? where is the disputer of this world? hath not God made foolish the wisdom of this world?

1:21    世人憑自己的智慧，既不認識神，神就樂意用人所當作愚拙的道理，拯救那些信的人。這就是神的智慧了。
For after that in the wisdom of God the world by wisdom knew not God, it pleased God by the foolishness of preaching to save them that believe.

1:22    猶太人是要神蹟，希臘人是求智慧。
For the Jews require a sign, and the Greeks seek after wisdom:

1:23    我們卻是傳釘十字架的基督，在猶太人為絆腳石，在外邦人為愚拙。
But we preach Christ crucified, unto the Jews a stumblingblock, and unto the Greeks foolishness;

1:24    但在那蒙召的無論是猶太人，希臘人，基督總為神的能力，神的智慧。
But unto them which are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God, and the wisdom of God.

1:25    因神的愚拙總比人智慧。神的軟弱總比人強壯。
Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men; and the weakness of God is stronger than men.

1:26    弟兄們哪，可見你們蒙召的，按著肉體有智慧的不多，有能力的不多，有尊貴的也不多。
For ye see your calling, brethren, how that not many wise men after the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, are called:

1:27    神卻揀選了世上愚拙的，叫有智慧的羞愧。又揀選了世上軟弱的，叫那強壯的羞愧。
But God hath chosen the foolish things of the world to confound the wise; and God hath chosen the weak things of the world to confound the things which are mighty;

1:28    神也揀選了世上卑賤的，被人厭惡的，以及那無有的，為要廢掉那有的。
And base things of the world, and things which are despised, hath God chosen, yea, and things which are not, to bring to nought things that are:

1:29    使一切有血氣的，在神面前一個也不能自誇。
That no flesh should glory in his presence.

1:30    但你們得在基督耶穌裡，是本乎神，神又使他成為我們的智慧，公義，聖潔，救贖。
But of him are ye in Christ Jesus, who of God is made unto us wisdom, and righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption:

1:31    如經上所記，誇口的當指著主誇口。
That, according as it is written, He that glorieth, let him glory in the Lord.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


2:1    弟兄們，從前我到你們那裡去，並沒有用高言大智對你們宣傳神的奧祕。
And I, brethren, when I came to you, came not with excellency of speech or of wisdom, declaring unto you the testimony of God.

2:2    因為我曾定了主意，在你們中間不知道別的，只知道耶穌基督，並他釘十字架。
For I determined not to know any thing among you, save Jesus Christ, and him crucified.

2:3    我在你們那裡，又軟弱，又懼怕，又甚戰競。
And I was with you in weakness, and in fear, and in much trembling.

2:4    我說的話，講的道，不是用智慧委婉的言語，乃是用聖靈和大能的明證。
And my speech and my preaching was not with enticing words of man's wisdom, but in demonstration of the Spirit and of power:

2:5    叫你們的信不在乎人的智慧，只在乎神的大能。
That your faith should not stand in the wisdom of men, but in the power of God.

2:6    然而在完全的人中，我們也講智慧。但不是這世上的智慧，也不是這世上有權有位將要敗亡之人的智慧。
Howbeit we speak wisdom among them that are perfect: yet not the wisdom of this world, nor of the princes of this world, that come to nought:

2:7    我們講的，乃是從前所隱藏，神奧祕的智慧，就是神在萬世以前豫定使我們得榮耀的。
But we speak the wisdom of God in a mystery, even the hidden wisdom, which God ordained before the world unto our glory:

2:8    這智慧世上有權有位的人沒有一個知道的。他們若知道，就不把榮耀的主釘在十字架上了。
Which none of the princes of this world knew: for had they known it, they would not have crucified the Lord of glory.

2:9    如經上所記，神為愛他的人所豫備的，是眼睛未曾看見，耳朵未曾聽見，人心也未曾想到的。
But as it is written, Eye hath not seen, nor ear heard, neither have entered into the heart of man, the things which God hath prepared for them that love him.

2:10    只有神藉著聖靈向我們顯明瞭。因為聖靈滲透萬事，就是神深奧的事也滲透了。
But God hath revealed them unto us by his Spirit: for the Spirit searcheth all things, yea, the deep things of God.

2:11    除了在人裡頭的靈，誰知道人的事。像這樣，除了神的靈，也沒有人知道神的事。
For what man knoweth the things of a man, save the spirit of man which is in him? even so the things of God knoweth no man, but the Spirit of God.

2:12    我們所領受的，並不是世上的靈，乃是從神來的靈，叫我們能知道神開恩賜給我們的事。
Now we have received, not the spirit of the world, but the spirit which is of God; that we might know the things that are freely given to us of God.

2:13    並且我們講說這些事，不是用人智慧所指教的言語，乃是用聖靈所指教的言語，將屬靈的話，解釋屬靈的事。（或作將屬靈的事講與屬靈的人）
Which things also we speak, not in the words which man's wisdom teacheth, but which the Holy Ghost teacheth; comparing spiritual things with spiritual.

2:14    然而屬血氣的人不領會神聖靈的事，反倒以為愚拙。並且不能知道，因為這些事惟有屬靈的人才能看透。
But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned.

2:15    屬靈的人能看透萬事，卻沒有一人能看透了他。
But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man.

2:16    誰曾知道主的心去教導他呢。但我們是有基督的心了。
For who hath known the mind of the Lord, that he may instruct him? But we have the mind of Christ.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


3:1    弟兄們，我從前對你們說話，不能把你們當作屬靈的，只得把你們當作屬肉體，在基督裡為嬰孩的。
And I, brethren, could not speak unto you as unto spiritual, but as unto carnal, even as unto babes in Christ.

3:2    我是用奶餵你們，沒有用飯餵你們。那時你們不能吃，就是如今還是不能。
I have fed you with milk, and not with meat: for hitherto ye were not able to bear it, neither yet now are ye able.

3:3    你們仍是屬肉體的。因為在你們中間有嫉妒分爭，這豈不是屬乎肉體，照著世人的樣子行嗎。
For ye are yet carnal: for whereas there is among you envying, and strife, and divisions, are ye not carnal, and walk as men?



3:4    有說，我是屬保羅的。有說，我是屬亞波羅的。這豈不是你們和世人一樣嗎。
For while one saith, I am of Paul; and another, I am of Apollos; are ye not carnal?

3:5    亞波羅算什麼。保羅算什麼。無非是執事，照主所賜給他們各人的，引導你們相信。
Who then is Paul, and who is Apollos, but ministers by whom ye believed, even as the Lord gave to every man?

3:6    我栽種了，亞波羅澆灌了。惟有神叫他生長。
I have planted, Apollos watered; but God gave the increase.

3:7    可見栽種的算不得什麼，澆灌的也算不得什麼。只在那叫他生長的神。
So then neither is he that planteth any thing, neither he that watereth; but God that giveth the increase.

3:8    栽種的和澆灌的都是一樣。但將來各人要照自己的工夫，得自己的賞賜。
Now he that planteth and he that watereth are one: and every man shall receive his own reward according to his own labour.

3:9    因為我們是與神同工的。你們是神所耕種的田地，所建造的房屋。
For we are labourers together with God: ye are God's husbandry, ye are God's building.

3:10    我照神所給我的恩，好像一個聰明的工頭，立好了根基，有別人在上面建造。只是各人要謹慎怎樣在上面建造。
According to the grace of God which is given unto me, as a wise masterbuilder, I have laid the foundation, and another buildeth thereon. But let every man take heed how he buildeth thereupon.

3:11    因為那已經立好的根基，就是耶穌基督，此外沒有人能立別的根基。
For other foundation can no man lay than that is laid, which is Jesus Christ.

3:12    若有人用金，銀，寶石，草木，禾楷，在這根基上建造。
Now if any man build upon this foundation gold, silver, precious stones, wood, hay, stubble;

3:13    各人的工程必然顯露。因為那日子要將他表明出來，有火發現。這火要試驗各人的工程怎樣。
Every man's work shall be made manifest: for the day shall declare it, because it shall be revealed by fire; and the fire shall try every man's work of what sort it is.

3:14    人在那根基上所建造的工程，若存得住，他就要得賞賜。
If any man's work abide which he hath built thereupon, he shall receive a reward.

3:15    人的工程若被燒了，他就要受虧損。自己卻要得救。雖然得救乃像從火裡經過的一樣。
If any man's work shall be burned, he shall suffer loss: but he himself shall be saved; yet so as by fire.

3:16    豈不知你們是神的殿，神的靈住在你們裡頭嗎。
Know ye not that ye are the temple of God, and that the Spirit of God dwelleth in you?

3:17    若有人毀壞神的殿，神必要毀壞那人。因為神的殿是聖的，這殿就是你們。
If any man defile the temple of God, him shall God destroy; for the temple of God is holy, which temple ye are.

3:18    人不可自欺。你們中間若有人，在這世界自以為有智慧，倒不如變作愚拙，好成為有智慧的。
Let no man deceive himself. If any man among you seemeth to be wise in this world, let him become a fool, that he may be wise.

3:19    因這世界的智慧，在神看是愚拙。如經上記著說，主叫有智慧的中了自己的詭計。
For the wisdom of this world is foolishness with God. For it is written, He taketh the wise in their own craftiness.

3:20    又說，主知道智慧人的意念是虛妄的。
And again, The Lord knoweth the thoughts of the wise, that they are vain.

3:21    所以無論誰，都不可拿人誇口。因為萬有全是你們的。
Therefore let no man glory in men. For all things are yours;

3:22    或保羅，或亞波羅，或磯法，或世界，或生，或死，或現今的事，或將來的事，全是你們的。
Whether Paul, or Apollos, or Cephas, or the world, or life, or death, or things present, or things to come; all are yours;

3:23    並且你們是屬基督的。基督又是屬神的。
And ye are Christ's; and Christ is God's.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


4:1    人應當以我們為基督的執事，為神奧祕事的管家。
Let a man so account of us, as of the ministers of Christ, and stewards of the mysteries of God.

4:2    所求於管家的，是要他有忠心。
Moreover it is required in stewards, that a man be found faithful.

4:3    我被你們論斷，或被別人論斷，我都以為極小的事。連我自己也不論斷自己。
But with me it is a very small thing that I should be judged of you, or of man's judgment: yea, I judge not mine own self.

4:4    我雖不覺得自己有錯，卻也不能因此得以稱義。但判斷我的乃是主。
For I know nothing by myself; yet am I not hereby justified: but he that judgeth me is the Lord.

4:5    所以時候未到，什麼都不要論斷，只等主來，他要照出暗中的隱情，顯明人心的意念。那時各人要從神那裡得著稱讚。
Therefore judge nothing before the time, until the Lord come, who both will bring to light the hidden things of darkness, and will make manifest the counsels of the hearts: and then shall every man have praise of God.

4:6    弟兄們，我為你們的緣故，拿這些事轉比自己和亞波羅。叫你們效法我們不可過於聖經所記。免得你們自高自大，貴重這個，輕看那個。
And these things, brethren, I have in a figure transferred to myself and to Apollos for your sakes; that ye might learn in us not to think of men above that which is written, that no one of you be puffed up for one against another.

4:7    使你與人不同的是誰呢。你有什麼不是領受的呢。若是領受的，為何自誇，彷佛不是領受的呢。
For who maketh thee to differ from another? and what hast thou that thou didst not receive? now if thou didst receive it, why dost thou glory, as if thou hadst not received it?

4:8    你們已經飽足了，已經豐富了，不用我們，自己就作王了。我願意你們果真作王，叫我們也得與你們一同作王。
Now ye are full, now ye are rich, ye have reigned as kings without us: and I would to God ye did reign, that we also might reign with you.

4:9    我想神把我們使徒明明列在末後，好像定死罪的囚犯。因為我們成了一臺戲，給世人和天使觀看。
For I think that God hath set forth us the apostles last, as it were appointed to death: for we are made a spectacle unto the world, and to angels, and to men.

4:10    我們為基督的緣故算是愚拙的，你們在基督裡倒是聰明的，我們軟弱，你們倒強壯。你們有榮耀，我們倒被藐視。
We are fools for Christ's sake, but ye are wise in Christ; we are weak, but ye are strong; ye are honourable, but we are despised.

4:11    直到如今，我們還是又飢又渴，又赤身露體，又捱打，又沒有一定的住處。
Even unto this present hour we both hunger, and thirst, and are naked, and are buffeted, and have no certain dwellingplace;

4:12    並且勞苦，親手作工，被人咒罵，我們就祝福。被人逼迫，我們就忍受。
And labour, working with our own hands: being reviled, we bless; being persecuted, we suffer it:

4:13    被人毀謗，我們就善勸。直到如今，人還把我們看作世界上的汙穢，萬物中的渣滓。
Being defamed, we intreat: we are made as the filth of the world, and are the offscouring of all things unto this day.

4:14    我寫這話，不是叫你們羞愧，乃是警戒你們，好像我所親愛的兒女一樣。
I write not these things to shame you, but as my beloved sons I warn you.

4:15    你們學基督的，師傅雖有一萬，為父的卻是不多，因我在基督耶穌裡用福音生了你們。
For though ye have ten thousand instructors in Christ, yet have ye not many fathers: for in Christ Jesus I have begotten you through the gospel.

4:16    所以我求你們效法我。
Wherefore I beseech you, be ye followers of me.

4:17    因此我已打發提摩太到你們那裡去。他在主裡面，是我所親愛有忠心的兒子。他必題醒你們，記念我在基督裡怎樣行事，在各處各教會中怎樣教導人。
For this cause have I sent unto you Timotheus, who is my beloved son, and faithful in the Lord, who shall bring you into remembrance of my ways which be in Christ, as I teach every where in every church.

4:18    有些人自高自大，以為我不到你們那裡去。
Now some are puffed up, as though I would not come to you.

4:19    然而主若許我，我必快到你們那裡去。並且我所要知道的，不是那些自高自大之人的言語，乃是他們的權能。
But I will come to you shortly, if the Lord will, and will know, not the speech of them which are puffed up, but the power.

4:20    因為神的國不在乎言語，乃在乎權能。
For the kingdom of God is not in word, but in power.

4:21    你們願意怎嗎樣呢。是願意我帶著刑杖到你們那裡去呢，還是要我存慈愛溫柔的心呢。
What will ye? shall I come unto you with a rod, or in love, and in the spirit of meekness?




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


5:1    風聞在你們中間有淫亂的事。這樣的淫亂，連外邦人中也沒有，就是有人收了他的繼母。
It is reported commonly that there is fornication among you, and such fornication as is not so much as named among the Gentiles, that one should have his father's wife.

5:2    你們還是自高自大，並不哀痛，把行這事的人從你們中間趕出去。
And ye are puffed up, and have not rather mourned, that he that hath done this deed might be taken away from among you.

5:3    我身子雖不在你們那裡，心卻在你們那裡，好像我親自與你們同在，已經判斷了行這事的人，
For I verily, as absent in body, but present in spirit, have judged already, as though I were present, concerning him that hath so done this deed,

5:4    就是你們聚會的時候，我的心也同在，奉我們主耶穌的名，並用我們主耶穌的權能，
In the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, when ye are gathered together, and my spirit, with the power of our Lord Jesus Christ,

5:5    要把這樣的人交給撒但，敗壞他的肉體，使他的靈魂在主耶穌的日子可以得救。
To deliver such an one unto Satan for the destruction of the flesh, that the spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord Jesus.

5:6    你們這自誇是不好的。豈不知一點面酵能使全團發起來嗎。
Your glorying is not good. Know ye not that a little leaven leaveneth the whole lump?

5:7    你們既是無酵的面，應當把舊酵除淨，好使你們成為新團。因為我們逾越節的羔羊基督已經被殺獻祭了。
Purge out therefore the old leaven, that ye may be a new lump, as ye are unleavened. For even Christ our passover is sacrificed for us:

5:8    所以，我們守這節不可用舊酵，也不可用惡毒（或作陰毒），邪惡的酵，只用誠實真正的無酵餅。
Therefore let us keep the feast, not with old leaven, neither with the leaven of malice and wickedness; but with the unleavened bread of sincerity and truth.

5:9    我先前寫信給你們說，不可與淫亂的人相交。
I wrote unto you in an epistle not to company with fornicators:

5:10    此話不是指這世上一概行淫亂的，或貪婪的，勒索的，或拜偶像的，若是這樣，你們除非離開世界方可。
Yet not altogether with the fornicators of this world, or with the covetous, or extortioners, or with idolaters; for then must ye needs go out of the world.

5:11    但如今我寫信給你們說，若有稱弟兄，是行淫亂的，或貪婪的，或拜偶像的，或辱罵的，或醉酒的，或勒索的。這樣的人不可與他相交。就是與他吃飯都不可。
But now I have written unto you not to keep company, if any man that is called a brother be a fornicator, or covetous, or an idolater, or a railer, or a drunkard, or an extortioner; with such an one no not to eat.

5:12    因為審判教外的人與我何干。教內的人豈不是你們審判的嗎。
For what have I to do to judge them also that are without? do not ye judge them that are within?

5:13    至於外人有神審判他們。你們應當把那惡人從你們中間趕出去。
But them that are without God judgeth. Therefore put away from among yourselves that wicked person.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


6:1    你們中間有彼此相爭的事，怎敢在不義的人面前求審，不在聖徒面前求審呢。
Dare any of you, having a matter against another, go to law before the unjust, and not before the saints?

6:2    豈不知聖徒要審判世界嗎。若世界為你們所審，難道你們不配審判這最小的事嗎。
Do ye not know that the saints shall judge the world? and if the world shall be judged by you, are ye unworthy to judge the smallest matters?



6:3    豈不知我們要審判天使嗎。何況今生的事呢。
Know ye not that we shall judge angels? how much more things that pertain to this life?

6:4    既是這樣，你們若今生的事當審判，是派教會所輕看的人審判嗎。
If then ye have judgments of things pertaining to this life, set them to judge who are least esteemed in the church.

6:5    我說這話，是要叫你們羞恥。難道你們中間沒有一個智慧人，能審斷弟兄們的事嗎。
I speak to your shame. Is it so, that there is not a wise man among you? no, not one that shall be able to judge between his brethren?

6:6    你們竟是弟兄與弟兄告狀，而且告在不信主的人面前。
But brother goeth to law with brother, and that before the unbelievers.

6:7    你們彼此告狀，這已經是你們的大錯了。為什麼不情願受欺呢。為什麼不情願吃虧呢。
Now therefore there is utterly a fault among you, because ye go to law one with another. Why do ye not rather take wrong? why do ye not rather suffer yourselves to be defrauded?

6:8    你們倒是欺壓人，虧負人，況且所欺壓，所虧負的就是弟兄。
Nay, ye do wrong, and defraud, and that your brethren.

6:9    你們豈不知不義的人不能承受神的國嗎。不要自欺。無論是淫亂的，拜偶像的，姦淫的，作孌童的，親男色的，
Know ye not that the unrighteous shall not inherit the kingdom of God? Be not deceived: neither fornicators, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor effeminate, nor abusers of themselves with mankind,

6:10    偷竊的，貪婪的，醉酒的，辱罵的，勒索的，都不能承受神的國。
Nor thieves, nor covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor extortioners, shall inherit the kingdom of God.

6:11    你們中間也有人從前是這樣。但如今你們奉主耶穌基督的名，並藉著神的靈，已經洗淨，成聖稱義了。
And such were some of you: but ye are washed, but ye are sanctified, but ye are justified in the name of the Lord Jesus, and by the Spirit of our God.

6:12    凡事我都可行。但不都有益處。凡事我都可行，但無論那一件，我總不受他的轄制。
All things are lawful unto me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful for me, but I will not be brought under the power of any.

6:13    食物是為肚腹，肚腹是為食物。但神要叫這兩樣都廢壞。身子不是為淫亂，乃是為主。主也是為身子。
Meats for the belly, and the belly for meats: but God shall destroy both it and them. Now the body is not for fornication, but for the Lord; and the Lord for the body.

6:14    並且神已經叫主復活，也要用自己的能力叫我們復活。
And God hath both raised up the Lord, and will also raise up us by his own power.

6:15    豈不知你們的身子是基督的肢體嗎。我可以將基督的肢體作為娼妓的肢體嗎。斷乎不可。
Know ye not that your bodies are the members of Christ? shall I then take the members of Christ, and make them the members of an harlot? God forbid.

6:16    豈不知與娼妓聯合的，便是與他成為一體嗎。因為主說，二人要成為一體。
What? know ye not that he which is joined to an harlot is one body? for two, saith he, shall be one flesh.

6:17    但與主聯合的，便是與主成為一靈。
But he that is joined unto the Lord is one spirit.

6:18    你們要逃避淫行。人所犯的，無論什麼罪，都在身子以外。惟有行淫的，是得罪自己的身子。
Flee fornication. Every sin that a man doeth is without the body; but he that committeth fornication sinneth against his own body.

6:19    豈不知你們的身子就是聖靈的殿嗎。這聖靈是從神而來，住在你們裡頭的。並且你們不是自己的人。
What? know ye not that your body is the temple of the Holy Ghost which is in you, which ye have of God, and ye are not your own?

6:20    因為你們是重價買來的。所以要在你們的身子榮耀神。
For ye are bought with a price: therefore glorify God in your body, and in your spirit, which are God's.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


7:1    論到你們信上所題的事，我說男不近女倒好。
Now concerning the things whereof ye wrote unto me: It is good for a man not to touch a woman.

7:2    但要免淫亂的事，男人當各有自己的妻子，女子也當各有自己的丈夫。
Nevertheless, to avoid fornication, let every man have his own wife, and let every woman have her own husband.

7:3    丈夫當用合宜之分待妻子，妻子待丈夫也要如此。
Let the husband render unto the wife due benevolence: and likewise also the wife unto the husband.

7:4    妻子沒有權柄主張自己的身子，乃在丈夫。丈夫也沒有權柄主張自己的身子，乃在妻子。
The wife hath not power of her own body, but the husband: and likewise also the husband hath not power of his own body, but the wife.

7:5    夫妻不可彼此虧負，除非兩相情願，暫時分房，為要專心禱告方可，以後仍要同房，免得撒但趁著你們情不自禁，引誘你們。
Defraud ye not one the other, except it be with consent for a time, that ye may give yourselves to fasting and prayer; and come together again, that Satan tempt you not for your incontinency.

7:6    我說這話，原是準你們的，不是命你們的。
But I speak this by permission, and not of commandment.

7:7    我願意眾人像我一樣。只是各人領受神的恩賜，一個是這樣，一個是那樣。
For I would that all men were even as I myself. But every man hath his proper gift of God, one after this manner, and another after that.

7:8    我對著沒有嫁娶的和寡婦說，若他們常像我就好。
I say therefore to the unmarried and widows, It is good for them if they abide even as I.

7:9    倘若自己禁止不住，就可以嫁娶。與其慾火攻心，倒不如嫁娶為妙。
But if they cannot contain, let them marry: for it is better to marry than to burn.

7:10    至於那已經嫁娶的，我吩咐他們，其實不是我吩咐，乃是主吩咐，說，妻子不可離開丈夫。
And unto the married I command, yet not I, but the Lord, Let not the wife depart from her husband:

7:11    若是離開了，不可再嫁。或是同丈夫和好。丈夫也不可離棄妻子。
But and if she depart, let her remain unmarried, or be reconciled to her husband: and let not the husband put away his wife.

7:12    我對其餘的人說，不是主說，倘若某弟兄有不信的妻子，妻子也情願和他住，他就不要離棄妻子。
But to the rest speak I, not the Lord: If any brother hath a wife that believeth not, and she be pleased to dwell with him, let him not put her away.

7:13    妻子有不信的丈夫，丈夫也情願和他同住，他就不要離棄丈夫。
And the woman which hath an husband that believeth not, and if he be pleased to dwell with her, let her not leave him.

7:14    因為不信的丈夫，就因著妻子成了聖潔。並且不信的妻子，就因著丈夫成了聖潔。（丈夫原文作弟兄）不然，你們的兒女就不潔淨。但如今他們是聖潔的了。
For the unbelieving husband is sanctified by the wife, and the unbelieving wife is sanctified by the husband: else were your children unclean; but now are they holy.

7:15    倘若那不信的人要離去，就由他離去吧。無論是弟兄，是姐妹，遇著這樣的事，都不必拘束。神召我們原是要我們和睦。
But if the unbelieving depart, let him depart. A brother or a sister is not under bondage in such cases: but God hath called us to peace.

7:16    你這作妻子的，怎嗎知道不能救你的丈夫呢。你這作丈夫的，怎嗎知道不能救你的妻子呢。
For what knowest thou, O wife, whether thou shalt save thy husband? or how knowest thou, O man, whether thou shalt save thy wife?

7:17    只要照主所分給各人的，和神所召各人的而行。我吩咐各教會都是這樣。
But as God hath distributed to every man, as the Lord hath called every one, so let him walk. And so ordain I in all churches.

7:18    有人已受割禮蒙召呢，就不要廢割禮。有人未受割禮蒙召呢，就不要受割禮。
Is any man called being circumcised? let him not become uncircumcised. Is any called in uncircumcision? let him not be circumcised.



7:19    受割禮算不得什麼，不受割禮也算不得什麼。只要守神的誡命就是了。
Circumcision is nothing, and uncircumcision is nothing, but the keeping of the commandments of God.

7:20    各人蒙召的時候是什麼身分，仍要守住這身分。
Let every man abide in the same calling wherein he was called.

7:21    你是作奴隸蒙召的嗎，不要因此憂慮。若能以自由，就求自由更好。
Art thou called being a servant? care not for it: but if thou mayest be made free, use it rather.

7:22    因為作奴僕蒙召於主的，就是主所釋放的人。作自由之人蒙召的，就是基督的奴僕。
For he that is called in the Lord, being a servant, is the Lord's freeman: likewise also he that is called, being free, is Christ's servant.

7:23    你們是重價買來的。不要作人的奴僕。
Ye are bought with a price; be not ye the servants of men.

7:24    弟兄們，你們各人蒙召的時候是什麼身分，仍要在神面前守住這身分。
Brethren, let every man, wherein he is called, therein abide with God.

7:25    論到童身的人，我沒有主的命令，但我既蒙主憐恤，能作忠心的人，就把自己的意見告訴你們
Now concerning virgins I have no commandment of the Lord: yet I give my judgment, as one that hath obtained mercy of the Lord to be faithful.

7:26    因現今的艱難，據我看來，人不如守素安常才好。
I suppose therefore that this is good for the present distress, I say, that it is good for a man so to be.

7:27    你有妻子纏著呢，就不要求脫離。你沒有妻子纏著呢，就不要求妻子。
Art thou bound unto a wife? seek not to be loosed. Art thou loosed from a wife? seek not a wife.

7:28    你若娶妻，並不是犯罪。處女若出嫁，也不是犯罪。然而這等人肉身必受苦難。我卻願意你們免這苦難。
But and if thou marry, thou hast not sinned; and if a virgin marry, she hath not sinned. Nevertheless such shall have trouble in the flesh: but I spare you.

7:29    弟兄們，我對你們說，時候減少了。從此以後，那有妻子的，要像沒有妻子。
But this I say, brethren, the time is short: it remaineth, that both they that have wives be as though they had none;

7:30    哀哭的，要像不哀哭。快樂的，要像不快樂。置買的，要像無有所得。
And they that weep, as though they wept not; and they that rejoice, as though they rejoiced not; and they that buy, as though they possessed not;

7:31    用世物的，要像不用世物。因為這世界的樣子將要過去了。
And they that use this world, as not abusing it: for the fashion of this world passeth away.

7:32    我願你們無所掛慮。沒有娶妻的，是為主的事掛慮，想怎樣叫主喜悅。
But I would have you without carefulness. He that is unmarried careth for the things that belong to the Lord, how he may please the Lord:

7:33    娶了妻的，是為世上的事掛慮，想怎樣叫妻子喜悅。
But he that is married careth for the things that are of the world, how he may please his wife.

7:34    婦人和處女也有分別。沒有出嫁的，是為主的事掛慮，要身體靈魂都聖潔。已經出嫁的，是為世上的事掛慮，想要怎樣叫丈夫喜悅。
There is difference also between a wife and a virgin. The unmarried woman careth for the things of the Lord, that she may be holy both in body and in spirit: but she that is married careth for the things of the world, how she may please her husband.

7:35    我說這話，是為你們的益處。不是要牢籠你們，乃是要叫你們行合宜的事，得以殷勤服事主，沒有分心的事。
And this I speak for your own profit; not that I may cast a snare upon you, but for that which is comely, and that ye may attend upon the Lord without distraction.

7:36    若有人以為自己待他的女兒不合宜，女兒也過了年歲，事又當行，他就可隨意辦理，不算有罪，叫二人成親就是了。
But if any man think that he behaveth himself uncomely toward his virgin, if she pass the flower of her age, and need so require, let him do what he will, he sinneth not: let them marry.

7:37    倘若人心裡堅定，沒有不得己的事，並且由得自己作主，心裡又決定了留下女兒不出嫁，如此行也好。
Nevertheless he that standeth stedfast in his heart, having no necessity, but hath power over his own will, and hath so decreed in his heart that he will keep his virgin, doeth well.

7:38    這樣看來，叫自己的女兒出嫁是好。不叫他出嫁更好。
So then he that giveth her in marriage doeth well; but he that giveth her not in marriage doeth better.

7:39    丈夫活著的時候，妻子是被約束的。丈夫若死了，妻子就可以自由，隨意再嫁。只是要嫁這在主裡面的人。
The wife is bound by the law as long as her husband liveth; but if her husband be dead, she is at liberty to be married to whom she will; only in the Lord.

7:40    然而按我的意見，若常守節更有福氣。我也想自己是被神的靈感動了。
But she is happier if she so abide, after my judgment: and I think also that I have the Spirit of God.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


8:1    論到祭偶像之物，我們曉得我們都有知識。但知識是叫人自高自大，惟有愛心能造就人。
Now as touching things offered unto idols, we know that we all have knowledge. Knowledge puffeth up, but charity edifieth.

8:2    若有人以為自己知道什麼，按他所當知道的，他仍是不知道。
And if any man think that he knoweth any thing, he knoweth nothing yet as he ought to know.

8:3    若有人愛神，這人乃是神所知道的。
But if any man love God, the same is known of him.

8:4    論到吃祭偶像之物，我們知道偶像在世上算不得什麼。也知道神只有一位，再沒有別的神。
As concerning therefore the eating of those things that are offered in sacrifice unto idols, we know that an idol is nothing in the world, and that there is none other God but one.

8:5    雖有稱為神的，或在天，或在地。就如那許多的神，許多的主。
For though there be that are called gods, whether in heaven or in earth, (as there be gods many, and lords many,)

8:6    然而我們只有一位神，就是父，萬物都本於他，我們也歸於他。並有一位主，就是耶穌基督，萬物都是藉著他有的，我們也是藉著他有的。
But to us there is but one God, the Father, of whom are all things, and we in him; and one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we by him.

8:7    但人不都有這等知識。有人到如今因拜慣了偶像，就以為所吃的是祭偶像之物。他們的良心既然軟弱，也就汙穢了。
Howbeit there is not in every man that knowledge: for some with conscience of the idol unto this hour eat it as a thing offered unto an idol; and their conscience being weak is defiled.

8:8    其實食物不能叫神看中我們。因為我們不吃也無損，吃也無益。
But meat commendeth us not to God: for neither, if we eat, are we the better; neither, if we eat not, are we the worse.

8:9    只是你們要謹慎，恐怕你們這自由，竟成了那軟弱人的絆腳石。
But take heed lest by any means this liberty of yours become a stumblingblock to them that are weak.

8:10    若有人見你這有知識的，在偶像的廟裡坐席，這人的良心若是軟弱，豈不放膽去吃那祭偶像之物嗎。
For if any man see thee which hast knowledge sit at meat in the idol's temple, shall not the conscience of him which is weak be emboldened to eat those things which are offered to idols;

8:11    因此，基督為他死的那軟弱弟兄，也就因你的知識沉倫了。
And through thy knowledge shall the weak brother perish, for whom Christ died?

8:12    你們這樣得罪弟兄們，傷了他們軟弱的良心，就是得罪基督。
But when ye sin so against the brethren, and wound their weak conscience, ye sin against Christ.

8:13    所以食物若叫我弟兄跌倒，我就永遠不吃肉，免得叫我弟兄跌倒了。
Wherefore, if meat make my brother to offend, I will eat no flesh while the world standeth, lest I make my brother to offend.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


9:1    我不是自由的嗎。我不是使徒嗎。我不是見過我們的主耶穌嗎。你們不是我在主裡面所作之工嗎。
Am I not an apostle? am I not free? have I not seen Jesus Christ our Lord? are not ye my work in the Lord?

9:2    假若在別人我不是使徒，在你們我總是使徒。因為你們在主里正是我作使徒的印證
If I be not an apostle unto others, yet doubtless I am to you: for the seal of mine apostleship are ye in the Lord.

9:3    我對那磐問我的人，就是這樣分訴。
Mine answer to them that do examine me is this,

9:4    難道我們沒有權柄靠福音吃喝嗎。
Have we not power to eat and to drink?

9:5    難道我們沒有權柄娶信主的姊妹為妻，帶著一同往來，彷佛其餘的使徒，和主的弟兄，並磯法一樣嗎。
Have we not power to lead about a sister, a wife, as well as other apostles, and as the brethren of the Lord, and Cephas?

9:6    獨有我與巴拿巴沒有權柄不作工嗎。
Or I only and Barnabas, have not we power to forbear working?

9:7    有誰當兵，自備糧餉呢。有誰栽葡萄園，不吃園裡的果子呢。有誰牧養牛羊，不吃牛羊的奶呢。
Who goeth a warfare any time at his own charges? who planteth a vineyard, and eateth not of the fruit thereof? or who feedeth a flock, and eateth not of the milk of the flock?

9:8    我說這話，豈是照人的意見。律法不也是這樣說嗎。
Say I these things as a man? or saith not the law the same also?

9:9    就如摩西的律法記著說，牛在場上踹谷的時候，不可籠住它的嘴。難道神所掛念的是牛嗎。
For it is written in the law of Moses, Thou shalt not muzzle the mouth of the ox that treadeth out the corn. Doth God take care for oxen?

9:10    不全是為我們說的嗎。分明是為我們說的。因為耕種的當存著指望去耕種。打場的也當存得糧的指望去打場。
Or saith he it altogether for our sakes? For our sakes, no doubt, this is written: that he that ploweth should plow in hope; and that he that thresheth in hope should be partaker of his hope.

9:11    我們若把屬靈的種子撒在你們中間，就是從你們收割奉養肉身之物，這還算大事嗎。
If we have sown unto you spiritual things, is it a great thing if we shall reap your carnal things?

9:12    若別人在你們身上有這權柄，何況我們呢。然而我們沒有用過這權柄，倒凡事忍受，免得基督的福音被阻隔。
If others be partakers of this power over you, are not we rather? Nevertheless we have not used this power; but suffer all things, lest we should hinder the gospel of Christ.

9:13    你們豈不知為聖事勞碌的，就吃殿中的物嗎。伺候祭壇的，就分領壇上的物嗎。
Do ye not know that they which minister about holy things live of the things of the temple? and they which wait at the altar are partakers with the altar?

9:14    主也這樣命定，叫傳福音的靠福音養生。
Even so hath the Lord ordained that they which preach the gospel should live of the gospel.

9:15    但這權柄我全沒有用過。我寫這話，並非要你們這樣待我。因為我寧可死，也不叫人使我所誇的落了空。
But I have used none of these things: neither have I written these things, that it should be so done unto me: for it were better for me to die, than that any man should make my glorying void.

9:16    我傳福音原沒有可誇的。因為我是不得已的。若不傳福音，我便有禍了。
For though I preach the gospel, I have nothing to glory of: for necessity is laid upon me; yea, woe is unto me, if I preach not the gospel!

9:17    我若甘心作這事，就有賞賜。若不甘心，責任卻已經託付我了。
For if I do this thing willingly, I have a reward: but if against my will, a dispensation of the gospel is committed unto me.

9:18    既是這樣，我的賞賜是什麼呢。就是我傳福音的時候，叫人不花錢得福音，免得用盡我傳福音的權柄。
What is my reward then? Verily that, when I preach the gospel, I may make the gospel of Christ without charge, that I abuse not my power in the gospel.

9:19    我雖是自由的，無人轄管，然而我甘心作了眾人的僕人，為要多得人。
For though I be free from all men, yet have I made myself servant unto all, that I might gain the more.

9:20    向猶太人，我就作猶太人，為要得猶太人。向律法以下的人，我雖不在律法以下，還是作律法以下的人，為要得律法以下的人。
And unto the Jews I became as a Jew, that I might gain the Jews; to them that are under the law, as under the law, that I might gain them that are under the law;

9:21    向沒有律法的人，我就作沒有律法的人，為要得沒有律法的人。其實我在神面前，不是沒有律法，在基督面前，正在律法之下。
To them that are without law, as without law, (being not without law to God, but under the law to Christ,) that I might gain them that are without law.

9:22    向軟弱的人，我就作軟弱的人，為要得軟弱的人。向什麼樣的人，我就作什麼樣的人。無論如何，總要救些人。
To the weak became I as weak, that I might gain the weak: I am made all things to all men, that I might by all means save some.

9:23    凡我所行的，都是為福音的緣故，為要與人同的這福音的好處。
And this I do for the gospel's sake, that I might be partaker thereof with you.

9:24    豈不知在場上賽跑的都跑，但得獎賞的只有一人。你們也當這樣跑，好叫你們得著獎賞。
Know ye not that they which run in a race run all, but one receiveth the prize? So run, that ye may obtain.

9:25    凡較力爭勝的，諸事都有節制。他們不過是要得能壞的冠冕。我們卻是要得不能壞的冠冕。
And every man that striveth for the mastery is temperate in all things. Now they do it to obtain a corruptible crown; but we an incorruptible.

9:26    所以我奔跑，不像無定向的。我鬥拳，不像打空氣的。
I therefore so run, not as uncertainly; so fight I, not as one that beateth the air:

9:27    我是攻克己身，叫身服我。恐怕我傳福音給別人，自己反被棄絕了。
But I keep under my body, and bring it into subjection: lest that by any means, when I have preached to others, I myself should be a castaway.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


10:1    弟兄們，我不願意你們不曉得，我們的祖宗從前都在雲下，都從海中經過。
Moreover, brethren, I would not that ye should be ignorant, how that all our fathers were under the cloud, and all passed through the sea;

10:2    都在雲裡海裡受洗歸了摩西。
And were all baptized unto Moses in the cloud and in the sea;

10:3    並且都吃了一樣的靈食。
And did all eat the same spiritual meat;

10:4    也都喝了一樣的靈水。所喝的是出於隨著他們的靈磐石。那磐石就是基督。
And did all drink the same spiritual drink: for they drank of that spiritual Rock that followed them: and that Rock was Christ.

10:5    但他們中間，多半是神不喜歡的人。所以在曠野倒斃。
But with many of them God was not well pleased: for they were overthrown in the wilderness.

10:6    這些事都是我們的監戒，叫我們不要貪戀惡事，像他們那樣貪戀的。
Now these things were our examples, to the intent we should not lust after evil things, as they also lusted.

10:7    也不要拜偶像，像他們有人拜的。如經上所記，百姓坐下吃喝，起來玩耍。
Neither be ye idolaters, as were some of them; as it is written, The people sat down to eat and drink, and rose up to play.

10:8    我們也不要行姦淫，像他們有人行的，一天就倒斃了二萬三千人。
Neither let us commit fornication, as some of them committed, and fell in one day three and twenty thousand.

10:9    也不要試探主，（主有古卷作基督）像他們有人試探的，就被蛇所滅。
Neither let us tempt Christ, as some of them also tempted, and were destroyed of serpents.

10:10    你們也不要發怨言，像他們有發怨言的，就被滅命的所滅。
Neither murmur ye, as some of them also murmured, and were destroyed of the destroyer.

10:11    他們遭遇這些事，都要作為監戒。並且寫在經上，正是警戒我們這末世的人。
Now all these things happened unto them for ensamples: and they are written for our admonition, upon whom the ends of the world are come.

10:12    所以自己以為站得穩的，須要謹慎，免得跌倒。
Wherefore let him that thinketh he standeth take heed lest he fall.

10:13    你們所遇見的試探，無非是人所能受的。神是信實的，必不叫你們受試探過於所能受的。在受試探的時候，總要給你們開一條出路，叫你們能忍受得住。
There hath no temptation taken you but such as is common to man: but God is faithful, who will not suffer you to be tempted above that ye are able; but will with the temptation also make a way to escape, that ye may be able to bear it.

10:14    我所親愛的弟兄阿，你們要逃避拜偶像的事。
Wherefore, my dearly beloved, flee from idolatry.

10:15    我好像對明白人說的，你們要審察我的話。
I speak as to wise men; judge ye what I say.

10:16    我們所祝福的杯，豈不是同領基督的血嗎。我們所擘開的餅，豈不是同領基督的身體嗎。
The cup of blessing which we bless, is it not the communion of the blood of Christ? The bread which we break, is it not the communion of the body of Christ?

10:17    我們雖多，仍是一個餅，一個身體。因為我們都是分受這一個餅。
For we being many are one bread, and one body: for we are all partakers of that one bread.

10:18    你們看屬肉體的以色列人。那吃祭物的，豈不是在祭壇上有分嗎。
Behold Israel after the flesh: are not they which eat of the sacrifices partakers of the altar?

10:19    我是怎樣說呢。豈是說祭偶像之物算得什麼呢。或說偶像算得什麼呢。
What say I then? that the idol is any thing, or that which is offered in sacrifice to idols is any thing?

10:20    我乃是說，外邦人所獻的祭，是祭鬼，不是祭神。我不願意你們與鬼相交。
But I say, that the things which the Gentiles sacrifice, they sacrifice to devils, and not to God: and I would not that ye should have fellowship with devils.

10:21    你們不能喝主的杯，又喝鬼的杯。不能吃主的筵席，又吃鬼的筵席。
Ye cannot drink the cup of the Lord, and the cup of devils: ye cannot be partakers of the Lord's table, and of the table of devils.

10:22    我們可惹主的憤恨嗎。我們比他還有能力嗎。
Do we provoke the Lord to jealousy? are we stronger than he?

10:23    凡事都可行。但不都有益處。凡事都可行。但不都造就人
All things are lawful for me, but all things are not expedient: all things are lawful for me, but all things edify not.

10:24    無論何人，不要求自己的益處，乃要求別人的益處。
Let no man seek his own, but every man another's wealth.

10:25    凡市上所賣的，你們只管吃，不要為良心的緣故問什麼話。
Whatsoever is sold in the shambles, that eat, asking no question for conscience sake:

10:26    因為地和其中所充滿的，都屬乎主。
For the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof.

10:27    倘有一個不信的請你們赴席，你們若願意去，凡擺在你們面前的，只管吃，不要為良心的緣故問什麼話。
If any of them that believe not bid you to a feast, and ye be disposed to go; whatsoever is set before you, eat, asking no question for conscience sake.

10:28    若有人對你說，這是獻過祭的物，就要為那告訴你們的人，併為良心的緣故，不吃。
But if any man say unto you, This is offered in sacrifice unto idols, eat not for his sake that shewed it, and for conscience sake: for the earth is the Lord's, and the fulness thereof:

10:29    我說的良心，不是你的，乃是他的。我這自由，為什麼被別人的良心論斷呢。
Conscience, I say, not thine own, but of the other: for why is my liberty judged of another man's conscience?

10:30    我若謝恩而吃，為什麼因我謝恩的物被人毀謗呢。
For if I by grace be a partaker, why am I evil spoken of for that for which I give thanks?

10:31    所以你們或吃或喝，無論作什麼，都要榮耀神而行。
Whether therefore ye eat, or drink, or whatsoever ye do, do all to the glory of God.

10:32    不拘是猶太人，是希臘人，是神的教會，你們都不要使他跌倒。
Give none offence, neither to the Jews, nor to the Gentiles, nor to the church of God:

10:33    就好像我凡事都叫眾人喜歡，不求自己的益處，只求眾人的益處，叫他們得救。
Even as I please all men in all things, not seeking mine own profit, but the profit of many, that they may be saved.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


11:1    你們該效法我，像我效法基督一樣。
Be ye followers of me, even as I also am of Christ.

11:2    我稱讚你們，因你們凡事記念我，又堅守我所傳給你們的。
Now I praise you, brethren, that ye remember me in all things, and keep the ordinances, as I delivered them to you.

11:3    我願意你們知道，基督是各人的頭。男人是女人的頭，神是基督的頭。
But I would have you know, that the head of every man is Christ; and the head of the woman is the man; and the head of Christ is God.

11:4    凡男人禱告或是講道（講道或作說預言下同），若蒙著頭，就是羞辱自己的頭。
Every man praying or prophesying, having his head covered, dishonoureth his head.

11:5    凡女人禱告或講道，若不蒙著頭，就羞辱自己的頭。因為這就如同剃了頭髮一樣。
But every woman that prayeth or prophesieth with her head uncovered dishonoureth her head: for that is even all one as if she were shaven.

11:6    女人若不蒙著頭，就該剪了頭髮。女人若以剪髮剃髮為羞愧，就該蒙著頭。
For if the woman be not covered, let her also be shorn: but if it be a shame for a woman to be shorn or shaven, let her be covered.

11:7    男人本不該蒙著頭，因為他是神的形像和榮耀，但女人是男人的榮耀。
For a man indeed ought not to cover his head, forasmuch as he is the image and glory of God: but the woman is the glory of the man.

11:8    起初，男人不是由女人而出。女人乃是由男人而出。
For the man is not of the woman; but the woman of the man.

11:9    並且男人不是為女人造的。女人乃是為男人造的。
Neither was the man created for the woman; but the woman for the man.

11:10    因此，女人為天使的緣故，應當在頭上有服權柄的記號。
For this cause ought the woman to have power on her head because of the angels.

11:11    然而照主的安排，女也不是無男，男也不是無女。
Nevertheless neither is the man without the woman, neither the woman without the man, in the Lord.

11:12    因為女人原是由男人而出，男人也是由女人而出。但萬有都是出乎神。
For as the woman is of the man, even so is the man also by the woman; but all things of God.

11:13    你們自己審察，女人禱告神，不蒙著頭，是合宜的嗎。
Judge in yourselves: is it comely that a woman pray unto God uncovered?

11:14    你們的本性不也指示你們，男人若有長頭髮，便是他的羞辱嗎。
Doth not even nature itself teach you, that, if a man have long hair, it is a shame unto him?

11:15    但女人有長頭髮，乃是他的榮耀。因為這頭髮是給他作蓋頭的。
But if a woman have long hair, it is a glory to her: for her hair is given her for a covering.

11:16    若有人想要辯駁，我們卻沒有這樣的規矩К神的眾教會也是沒有的。
But if any man seem to be contentious, we have no such custom, neither the churches of God.

11:17    我現今吩咐你們的話，不是稱讚你們。因為你們聚會不是受益，乃是招損。
Now in this that I declare unto you I praise you not, that ye come together not for the better, but for the worse.

11:18    第一，我聽說你們聚會的時候，彼此分門別類。我也稍微的信這話。
For first of all, when ye come together in the church, I hear that there be divisions among you; and I partly believe it.

11:19    在你們中間不免有分門結黨的事，好叫那些有經驗的人，顯明出來。
For there must be also heresies among you, that they which are approved may be made manifest among you.

11:20    你們聚會的時候，算不得吃主的晚餐。
When ye come together therefore into one place, this is not to eat the Lord's supper.

11:21    因為吃的時候，各人先吃自己的飯，甚至這個肌餓，那個酒醉。
For in eating every one taketh before other his own supper: and one is hungry, and another is drunken.

11:22    你們要吃喝，難道沒有家嗎。還是藐視神的教會，叫那沒有的羞愧呢。我向你們可怎嗎說呢。可因此稱讚你們嗎。我不稱讚。
What? have ye not houses to eat and to drink in? or despise ye the church of God, and shame them that have not? What shall I say to you? shall I praise you in this? I praise you not.

11:23    我當日傳給你們的，原是從主領受的，就是主耶穌被賣的那一夜，拿起餅來，
For I have received of the Lord that which also I delivered unto you, That the Lord Jesus the same night in which he was betrayed took bread:

11:24    祝謝了，就擘開，說，這是我的身體，為你們舍的（舍有古卷作擘開）。你們應當如此行，為的是記念我。
And when he had given thanks, he brake it, and said, Take, eat: this is my body, which is broken for you: this do in remembrance of me.

11:25    飯後，也照樣拿起杯來，說，這杯是用我的血所立的新約。你們每逢喝的時候，要如此行，為的是記念我。
After the same manner also he took the cup, when he had supped, saying, This cup is the new testament in my blood: this do ye, as oft as ye drink it, in remembrance of me.

11:26    你們每逢吃這餅，喝這杯，是表明主的死，直等到他來。
For as often as ye eat this bread, and drink this cup, ye do shew the Lord's death till he come.

11:27    所以無論何人，不按理吃主的餅，喝主的杯，就是干犯主的身主的血了。
Wherefore whosoever shall eat this bread, and drink this cup of the Lord, unworthily, shall be guilty of the body and blood of the Lord.

11:28    人應當自己省察，然後吃這餅，喝這杯。
But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup.

11:29    因為人吃喝，若不分辨是主的身體，就是吃喝自己的罪了。
For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself, not discerning the Lord's body.

11:30    因此，在你們中間有好些軟弱的，與患病的，死的也不少（死原文作睡）。
For this cause many are weak and sickly among you, and many sleep.

11:31    我們若是先分辨自己，就不至於受審。
For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.

11:32    我們受審的時候，乃是被主懲治。免得我們和世人一同定罪。
But when we are judged, we are chastened of the Lord, that we should not be condemned with the world.

11:33    所以我弟兄們，你們聚會吃的時候，要彼此等待。
Wherefore, my brethren, when ye come together to eat, tarry one for another.

11:34    若有人肌餓，可以在家裡先吃。免得你們聚會自己取罪。其餘的事，我來的時候再安排。
And if any man hunger, let him eat at home; that ye come not together unto condemnation. And the rest will I set in order when I come.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


12:1    弟兄們，論到屬靈的恩賜，我不願意你們不明白。
Now concerning spiritual gifts, brethren, I would not have you ignorant.

12:2    你們作外邦人的時候，隨事被牽引受迷惑，去服事那啞吧偶像。這是你們知道的。
Ye know that ye were Gentiles, carried away unto these dumb idols, even as ye were led.

12:3    所以我告訴你們，被神的靈感動的，沒有說耶穌是可咒詛的。若不是被聖靈感動的，也沒有能說耶穌是主的。
Wherefore I give you to understand, that no man speaking by the Spirit of God calleth Jesus accursed: and that no man can say that Jesus is the Lord, but by the Holy Ghost.

12:4    恩賜原有分別，聖靈卻是一位。
Now there are diversities of gifts, but the same Spirit.

12:5    職事也有分別，主卻是一位。
And there are differences of administrations, but the same Lord.

12:6    功用也有分別，神卻是一位，在眾人裡面執行一切的事。
And there are diversities of operations, but it is the same God which worketh all in all.

12:7    聖靈顯在各人身上，是叫人得益處。
But the manifestation of the Spirit is given to every man to profit withal.

12:8    這人蒙聖靈賜他智慧的言語。那人也蒙這位聖靈賜他知識的言語。
For to one is given by the Spirit the word of wisdom; to another the word of knowledge by the same Spirit;

12:9    又有一人蒙這位聖靈賜他信心。還有一人蒙這位聖靈賜他醫病的恩賜。
To another faith by the same Spirit; to another the gifts of healing by the same Spirit;

12:10    又有一人能行異能。又叫一人能作先知。又叫一人能辨別諸靈。又叫一人能說方言。又叫一人能翻方言。
To another the working of miracles; to another prophecy; to another discerning of spirits; to another divers kinds of tongues; to another the interpretation of tongues:

12:11    這一切都是這位聖靈所執行，隨己意分給各人的。
But all these worketh that one and the selfsame Spirit, dividing to every man severally as he will.

12:12    就如身子是一個，卻有許多肢體。而且肢體雖多，仍是一個身子。基督也是這樣。
For as the body is one, and hath many members, and all the members of that one body, being many, are one body: so also is Christ.

12:13    我們不拘是猶太人，是希臘人，是為奴的，是自主的，都從一位聖靈受洗，成了一個身體。飲於一位聖靈。
For by one Spirit are we all baptized into one body, whether we be Jews or Gentiles, whether we be bond or free; and have been all made to drink into one Spirit.

12:14    身子原不是一個肢體，乃是許多肢體。
For the body is not one member, but many.

12:15    設若腳說，我不是手，所以不屬乎身子。他不能因此就不屬乎身子。
If the foot shall say, Because I am not the hand, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?

12:16    設若耳說，我不是眼，所以不屬乎身子。他也不能因此就不屬乎身子。
And if the ear shall say, Because I am not the eye, I am not of the body; is it therefore not of the body?

12:17    若全身是眼，從那裡聽聲呢。若全身是耳，從那裡聞味呢。
If the whole body were an eye, where were the hearing? If the whole were hearing, where were the smelling?

12:18    但如今神隨自己的意思，把肢體俱各安排在身上。
But now hath God set the members every one of them in the body, as it hath pleased him.

12:19    若都是一個肢體，身子在那裡呢。
And if they were all one member, where were the body?

12:20    但如今肢體是多的，身子卻是一個。
But now are they many members, yet but one body.

12:21    眼不能對手說，我用不著你。頭也不能對腳說，我用不著你。
And the eye cannot say unto the hand, I have no need of thee: nor again the head to the feet, I have no need of you.

12:22    不但如此，身上肢體人以為軟弱的，更是不可少的。
Nay, much more those members of the body, which seem to be more feeble, are necessary:

12:23    身上肢體，我們看為不體面的，越發給他加上體面。不俊美的，越發得著俊美。
And those members of the body, which we think to be less honourable, upon these we bestow more abundant honour; and our uncomely parts have more abundant comeliness.

12:24    我們俊美的肢體，自然用不著裝飾。但神配搭這身子，把加倍的體面給那有缺欠的肢體。
For our comely parts have no need: but God hath tempered the body together, having given more abundant honour to that part which lacked:

12:25    免得身上分門別類。總要肢體彼此相顧。
That there should be no schism in the body; but that the members should have the same care one for another.

12:26    若一個肢體受苦，所有的肢體就一同受苦。若一個肢體得榮耀，所有的肢體就一同快樂。
And whether one member suffer, all the members suffer with it; or one member be honoured, all the members rejoice with it.

12:27    你們就是基督的身子，並且各作肢體。
Now ye are the body of Christ, and members in particular.

12:28    神在教會所設立的，第一是使徒。第二是先知，第三是教師。其次是行異能的。再次是得恩賜醫病的。幫助人的。治理事的。說方言的。
And God hath set some in the church, first apostles, secondarily prophets, thirdly teachers, after that miracles, then gifts of healings, helps, governments, diversities of tongues.

12:29    豈都是使徒嗎。豈都是先知嗎。豈都是教師嗎。豈都是行異能的嗎。
Are all apostles? are all prophets? are all teachers? are all workers of miracles?

12:30    豈都是得恩賜醫病的嗎。豈都是說方言的嗎。豈都是翻方言的嗎。
Have all the gifts of healing? do all speak with tongues? do all interpret?

12:31    你們要切切的求那更大的恩賜，我現今把最妙的道指示你們。
But covet earnestly the best gifts: and yet shew I unto you a more excellent way.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


13:1    我若能說萬人的方言，並天使的話語卻沒有愛，我就成了嗚的鑼，響的鈸一般。
Though I speak with the tongues of men and of angels, and have not charity, I am become as sounding brass, or a tinkling cymbal.

13:2    我若有先知講道之能，也明白各樣的奧祕，各樣的知識。而且有全備的信，叫我能夠移山，卻沒有愛，我就算不得什麼。
And though I have the gift of prophecy, and understand all mysteries, and all knowledge; and though I have all faith, so that I could remove mountains, and have not charity, I am nothing.

13:3    我若將所有的賙濟窮人，又捨己身叫人焚燒，卻沒有愛，仍然與我無益。
And though I bestow all my goods to feed the poor, and though I give my body to be burned, and have not charity, it profiteth me nothing.

13:4    愛是恆久忍耐，又有恩慈。愛是不嫉妒。愛是不自誇。不張狂。
Charity suffereth long, and is kind; charity envieth not; charity vaunteth not itself, is not puffed up,

13:5    不作害羞的事。不求自己的益處。不輕易發怒。不計算人的惡。
Doth not behave itself unseemly, seeketh not her own, is not easily provoked, thinketh no evil;

13:6    不喜歡不義。只喜歡真理。
Rejoiceth not in iniquity, but rejoiceth in the truth;

13:7    凡事包容。凡事相信。凡事盼望。凡事忍耐。
Beareth all things, believeth all things, hopeth all things, endureth all things.

13:8    愛是永不止息。先知講道之能，終必歸於無有。說方言之能，終必停止，知識也終必歸於無有。
Charity never faileth: but whether there be prophecies, they shall fail; whether there be tongues, they shall cease; whether there be knowledge, it shall vanish away.

13:9    我們現在所知道的有限，先知所講的也有限。
For we know in part, and we prophesy in part.

13:10    等那完全的來到，這有限的必歸於無有了。
But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part shall be done away.

13:11    我作孩子的時候，話語像孩子，心思像孩子，意念像孩子。既成了人，就把孩子的事丟棄了。
When I was a child, I spake as a child, I understood as a child, I thought as a child: but when I became a man, I put away childish things.

13:12    我們如今彷佛對著鏡子觀看，饃糊不清。（饃糊不清原文作如同謎）到那時，到那時，就要面對面了。我如今所知道的有限。到那時就全知道，如同主知道我一樣。
For now we see through a glass, darkly; but then face to face: now I know in part; but then shall I know even as also I am known.

13:13    如今常存的有信，有望，有愛，這三樣，其中最大的是愛。
And now abideth faith, hope, charity, these three; but the greatest of these is charity.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


14:1    你們要追求愛，也要切慕屬靈的恩賜，其中更要羨慕的，是作先知講道。（原文作是說預言下同）
Follow after charity, and desire spiritual gifts, but rather that ye may prophesy.

14:2    那說方言的，原不是對人說，乃是對神說。因為沒有人聽出來。然而他在心靈裡，卻是講說各樣的奧祕。
For he that speaketh in an unknown tongue speaketh not unto men, but unto God: for no man understandeth him; howbeit in the spirit he speaketh mysteries.

14:3    但作先知講道的，是對人說，要造就，安慰，勸勉人。
But he that prophesieth speaketh unto men to edification, and exhortation, and comfort.

14:4    說方言的，是造就自己。作先知講道的，乃是造就教會。
He that speaketh in an unknown tongue edifieth himself; but he that prophesieth edifieth the church.

14:5    我願意你們都說方言。更願意你們作先知講道。因為說方言的，若不翻出來，使教會被造就，那作先知講道的，就比他強了。
I would that ye all spake with tongues, but rather that ye prophesied: for greater is he that prophesieth than he that speaketh with tongues, except he interpret, that the church may receive edifying.

14:6    弟兄們，我到你們那裡去，若只說方言，不用啟示，或知識，或預言，或教訓，給你們講解，我與你們有什麼益處呢。
Now, brethren, if I come unto you speaking with tongues, what shall I profit you, except I shall speak to you either by revelation, or by knowledge, or by prophesying, or by doctrine?

14:7    就是那有聲無氣的物，或簫，或琴，若發出來的聲音，沒有分別，怎能知道所吹所彈的是什麼呢。
And even things without life giving sound, whether pipe or harp, except they give a distinction in the sounds, how shall it be known what is piped or harped?

14:8    若吹無定的號聲，誰能豫備打仗呢。
For if the trumpet give an uncertain sound, who shall prepare himself to the battle?

14:9    你們也是如此，舌頭若不說容易明白的話，怎能知道所說的是什麼呢。這就是向空說話了。
So likewise ye, except ye utter by the tongue words easy to be understood, how shall it be known what is spoken? for ye shall speak into the air.

14:10    世上的聲音，或者甚多，卻沒有一樣是無意思的。
There are, it may be, so many kinds of voices in the world, and none of them is without signification.

14:11    我若不明白那聲音的意思，這說話的人必以我為化外之人，我也以他為化外之人。
Therefore if I know not the meaning of the voice, I shall be unto him that speaketh a barbarian, and he that speaketh shall be a barbarian unto me.

14:12    你們也是如此。既是切慕屬靈的恩賜，就當求多得造就教會的恩賜。
Even so ye, forasmuch as ye are zealous of spiritual gifts, seek that ye may excel to the edifying of the church.

14:13    所以那說方言的，就當求著能翻出來。
Wherefore let him that speaketh in an unknown tongue pray that he may interpret.

14:14    我若用方言禱告，是我的靈禱告。但我的悟性沒有果效。
For if I pray in an unknown tongue, my spirit prayeth, but my understanding is unfruitful.

14:15    這卻怎嗎說呢。我要用靈禱告，也要用悟性禱告。我要用靈歌唱，也要用悟性歌唱。
What is it then? I will pray with the spirit, and I will pray with the understanding also: I will sing with the spirit, and I will sing with the understanding also.

14:16    不然，你用靈祝謝，那在座不通方言的人，既然不明白你的話，怎能在你感謝的時候說阿們呢。
Else when thou shalt bless with the spirit, how shall he that occupieth the room of the unlearned say Amen at thy giving of thanks, seeing he understandeth not what thou sayest?

14:17    你感謝的固然是好，無奈不能造就別人。
For thou verily givest thanks well, but the other is not edified.

14:18    我感謝神，我說方言比你們眾人還多。
I thank my God, I speak with tongues more than ye all:

14:19    但在教會中，寧可用悟性說五句教導人的話，強如說萬句方言。
Yet in the church I had rather speak five words with my understanding, that by my voice I might teach others also, than ten thousand words in an unknown tongue.

14:20    弟兄們，在心志上不要作小孩子。然而在惡事上要作嬰孩。在心志上總要作大人。
Brethren, be not children in understanding: howbeit in malice be ye children, but in understanding be men.

14:21    律法上記著，主說，我要用外邦人的舌頭，和外邦人的嘴脣，向這百姓說話。雖然如此，他們還是不聽從我。
In the law it is written, With men of other tongues and other lips will I speak unto this people; and yet for all that will they not hear me, saith the LORD.

14:22    這樣看來，說方言，不是為信的人作證據，乃是為不信的人。作先知講道，不是為不信的人作證據，乃是為信的人。
Wherefore tongues are for a sign, not to them that believe, but to them that believe not: but prophesying serveth not for them that believe not, but for them which believe.

14:23    所以全教會聚在一處的時候，若都說方言，偶然有不通方言的，或是不信的人進來，豈不說你們癲狂了嗎。
If therefore the whole church be come together into one place, and all speak with tongues, and there come in those that are unlearned, or unbelievers, will they not say that ye are mad?

14:24    若都作先知講道，偶然有不信的，或是不通方言的人進來，就被眾人勸醒，被眾人審明。
But if all prophesy, and there come in one that believeth not, or one unlearned, he is convinced of all, he is judged of all:

14:25    他心裡的隱情顯露出來，就必將臉伏地，敬拜神，說神真是在你們中間了。
And thus are the secrets of his heart made manifest; and so falling down on his face he will worship God, and report that God is in you of a truth.

14:26    弟兄們，這卻怎嗎樣呢。你們聚會的時候，各人或有詩歌，或有教訓，或有啟示，或有方言，或有翻出來的話。凡事都當造就人。
How is it then, brethren? when ye come together, every one of you hath a psalm, hath a doctrine, hath a tongue, hath a revelation, hath an interpretation. Let all things be done unto edifying.

14:27    若有說方言的，只好兩個人，至多三個人，且要輪流說，也要一個人翻出來。
If any man speak in an unknown tongue, let it be by two, or at the most by three, and that by course; and let one interpret.

14:28    若沒有人翻，就當在會中閉口。只對自己和神說，就是了。
But if there be no interpreter, let him keep silence in the church; and let him speak to himself, and to God.

14:29    至於作先知講道的，只好兩個人，或是三個人，其餘的就當慎思明辨。
Let the prophets speak two or three, and let the other judge.

14:30    若旁邊坐著的得了啟示，那先說話的就當閉口不言。
If any thing be revealed to another that sitteth by, let the first hold his peace.

14:31    因為你們都可以一個一個的作先知講道，叫眾人學道理，叫眾人得勸勉。
For ye may all prophesy one by one, that all may learn, and all may be comforted.

14:32    先知的靈，原是順服先知的。
And the spirits of the prophets are subject to the prophets.

14:33    因為神不是叫人混亂，乃是叫人安靜。
For God is not the author of confusion, but of peace, as in all churches of the saints.

14:34    婦女在會中要閉口不言，像在聖徒的眾教會一樣。因為不准他們說話。他們總要順服，正如律法所說的。
Let your women keep silence in the churches: for it is not permitted unto them to speak; but they are commanded to be under obedience, as also saith the law.

14:35    他們若要學什麼，可以在家裡問自己的丈夫。因為婦女在會中說話原是可恥的。
And if they will learn any thing, let them ask their husbands at home: for it is a shame for women to speak in the church.

14:36    神的道理，豈是從你們出來嗎。豈是單臨到你們嗎。
What? came the word of God out from you? or came it unto you only?

14:37    若有人以為自己是先知或是屬靈的，就該知道，我所寫給你們的是主的命令。
If any man think himself to be a prophet, or spiritual, let him acknowledge that the things that I write unto you are the commandments of the Lord.

14:38    若有不知道的，就由他不知道吧。
But if any man be ignorant, let him be ignorant.

14:39    所以我弟兄們，你們要切慕作先知講道，也不要禁止說方言。
Wherefore, brethren, covet to prophesy, and forbid not to speak with tongues.

14:40    凡事都要規規矩矩的按著次序行。
Let all things be done decently and in order.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　　


15:1    弟兄們，我如今把先前所傳給你們的福音，告訴你們知道，這福音你們也領受了，又靠著站立得住。
Moreover, brethren, I declare unto you the gospel which I preached unto you, which also ye have received, and wherein ye stand;

15:2    並且你們若不是徒然相信，能以持守我所傳給你們的，就必因這福音得救。
By which also ye are saved, if ye keep in memory what I preached unto you, unless ye have believed in vain.

15:3    我當日所領受又傳給你們的，第一，就是基督照聖經所說，為我們的罪死了。
For I delivered unto you first of all that which I also received, how that Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures;

15:4    而且埋葬了。又照聖經所說，第三天覆活了。
And that he was buried, and that he rose again the third day according to the scriptures:

15:5    並且顯給磯法看。然後顯給十二使徒看。
And that he was seen of Cephas, then of the twelve:

15:6    後來一時顯給五百多弟兄看，其中一大半到如今還在，卻也有已經睡了的。
After that, he was seen of above five hundred brethren at once; of whom the greater part remain unto this present, but some are fallen asleep.

15:7    以後顯給雅各看。再顯給眾使徒看。
After that, he was seen of James; then of all the apostles.

15:8    末了也顯給我看。我如同未到產期而生的人一般。
And last of all he was seen of me also, as of one born out of due time.

15:9    我原是使徒中最小的，不配稱為使徒，因為我從前逼迫神的教會。
For I am the least of the apostles, that am not meet to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the church of God.

15:10    然而我今日成了何等人，是蒙神的恩才成的。並且他所賜我的恩，不是徒然的。我比眾使徒格外勞苦。這原不是我，乃是神的恩與我同在。
But by the grace of God I am what I am: and his grace which was bestowed upon me was not in vain; but I laboured more abundantly than they all: yet not I, but the grace of God which was with me.

15:11    不拘是我是眾使徒，我們如此傳，你們也如此信了。
Therefore whether it were I or they, so we preach, and so ye believed.

15:12    既傳基督是從死裡復活了，怎嗎在你們中間，有人說沒有死人復活的事呢。
Now if Christ be preached that he rose from the dead, how say some among you that there is no resurrection of the dead?

15:13    若沒有死人復活的事，基督也就沒有復活了。
But if there be no resurrection of the dead, then is Christ not risen:

15:14    若基督沒有復活，我們所傳的便是枉然，你們所信的也是枉然。
And if Christ be not risen, then is our preaching vain, and your faith is also vain.

15:15    並且明顯我們是為神妄作見證的。因我們見證神是叫基督復活了。若死人真不復活，神也沒有叫基督復活了。
Yea, and we are found false witnesses of God; because we have testified of God that he raised up Christ: whom he raised not up, if so be that the dead rise not.

15:16    因為死人若不復活，基督也沒有復活了。
For if the dead rise not, then is not Christ raised:

15:17    基督若沒有復活，你們的信便是徒然。你們仍在罪裡。
And if Christ be not raised, your faith is vain; ye are yet in your sins.

15:18    就是在基督裡睡了的人也滅亡了。
Then they also which are fallen asleep in Christ are perished.

15:19    我們若靠基督，只在今生有指望，就算比眾人更可憐。
If in this life only we have hope in Christ, we are of all men most miserable.

15:20    但基督已經從死裡復活，成為睡了之人初熟的果子。
But now is Christ risen from the dead, and become the firstfruits of them that slept.

15:21    死既是因一人而來，死人復活也是因一人而來。
For since by man came death, by man came also the resurrection of the dead.

15:22    在亞當裡眾人都死了。照樣，在基督裡眾人也都要復活。
For as in Adam all die, even so in Christ shall all be made alive.

15:23    但各人是按著自己的次序復活。初熟的果子是基督。以後在他來的時候，是那些屬基督的。
But every man in his own order: Christ the firstfruits; afterward they that are Christ's at his coming.

15:24    再後末期到了，那時，基督既將一切執政的，掌權的，有能的，都毀滅了，就把國交與父神。
Then cometh the end, when he shall have delivered up the kingdom to God, even the Father; when he shall have put down all rule and all authority and power.

15:25    因為基督必要作王，等神把一切仇敵，都放在他的腳下。
For he must reign, till he hath put all enemies under his feet.

15:26    盡末了所毀滅的仇敵，就是死。
The last enemy that shall be destroyed is death.

15:27    因為經上說，神叫萬物都服在他的腳下。既說萬物都服了他，明顯那叫萬物服他的不在其內了。
For he hath put all things under his feet. But when he saith all things are put under him, it is manifest that he is excepted, which did put all things under him.

15:28    萬物既服了他，那時，子也要自己服那叫萬物服他的，叫神在萬物之上，為萬物之主。
And when all things shall be subdued unto him, then shall the Son also himself be subject unto him that put all things under him, that God may be all in all.

15:29    不然那些為死人受洗的，將來怎樣呢。若死人總不復活，因何為他們受洗呢。
Else what shall they do which are baptized for the dead, if the dead rise not at all? why are they then baptized for the dead?

15:30    我們又因何時刻冒險呢。
And why stand we in jeopardy every hour?

15:31    弟兄們，我在主基督耶穌裡，指著你們所誇的口，極力的說，我是天天冒死。
I protest by your rejoicing which I have in Christ Jesus our LORD, I die daily.

15:32    我若當日像尋常人，在以弗所同野獸戰鬥，那於我有什麼益處呢。若死人不復活，我們就吃吃喝喝吧。因為明天要死了。
If after the manner of men I have fought with beasts at Ephesus, what advantageth it me, if the dead rise not? let us eat and drink; for to morrow we die.

15:33    你們不要自欺。濫交是敗壞善行。
Be not deceived: evil communications corrupt good manners.

15:34    你們要醒悟為善，不要犯罪。因為有人不認識神。我說這話，是要叫你們羞愧。
Awake to righteousness, and sin not; for some have not the knowledge of God: I speak this to your shame.

15:35    或有人問，死人怎樣復活。帶著什麼身體來呢。
But some man will say, How are the dead raised up? and with what body do they come?

15:36    無知的人哪，你所種的，若不死就不能生。
Thou fool, that which thou sowest is not quickened, except it die:

15:37    並且你所種的，不是那將來的形體，不過是子粒，既如麥子，或是別樣的谷。
And that which thou sowest, thou sowest not that body that shall be, but bare grain, it may chance of wheat, or of some other grain:



15:38    但神隨自己的意思，給他一個形體，並叫各等子粒，各有自己的形體。
But God giveth it a body as it hath pleased him, and to every seed his own body.

15:39    凡肉體各有不同。人是一樣，獸又是一樣，鳥又是一樣，魚又是一樣。
All flesh is not the same flesh: but there is one kind of flesh of men, another flesh of beasts, another of fishes, and another of birds.

15:40    有天上的形體，也有地上的形體。但天上形體的榮光是一樣，地上形體的榮光又是一樣。
There are also celestial bodies, and bodies terrestrial: but the glory of the celestial is one, and the glory of the terrestrial is another.

15:41    日有日的榮光，月有月的榮光，星有星的榮光。這星和那星的榮光，也有分別。
There is one glory of the sun, and another glory of the moon, and another glory of the stars: for one star differeth from another star in glory.

15:42    死人復活也是這樣。所種的是必朽壞的，復活的是不朽壞的。
So also is the resurrection of the dead. It is sown in corruption; it is raised in incorruption:

15:43    所種的是羞辱的，復活的是榮耀的。所種的是軟弱的，復活的是強壯的。
It is sown in dishonour; it is raised in glory: it is sown in weakness; it is raised in power:

15:44    所種的是血氣的身體，復活的是靈性的身體。若有血氣的身體，也必有靈性的身體。
It is sown a natural body; it is raised a spiritual body. There is a natural body, and there is a spiritual body.

15:45    經上也是這樣記著說，首先的人亞當，成了有靈的活人。（靈或作血氣）末後的亞當，成了叫人活的靈。
And so it is written, The first man Adam was made a living soul; the last Adam was made a quickening spirit.

15:46    但屬靈的不在先，屬血氣的在先。以後才有屬靈的。
Howbeit that was not first which is spiritual, but that which is natural; and afterward that which is spiritual.

15:47    頭一個人是出於地，乃屬土。第二個人是出於天。
The first man is of the earth, earthy: the second man is the Lord from heaven.

15:48    那屬土的怎樣，凡屬土的也就怎樣。屬天的怎樣，凡屬天的也就怎樣。
As is the earthy, such are they also that are earthy: and as is the heavenly, such are they also that are heavenly.

15:49    我們既有屬土的形狀，將來也必有屬天的形狀。
And as we have borne the image of the earthy, we shall also bear the image of the heavenly.

15:50    弟兄們，我告訴你們說，血肉之體，不能承受神的國。必朽壞的，不能承受不朽壞的。
Now this I say, brethren, that flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God; neither doth corruption inherit incorruption.

15:51    我如今把一件奧祕的事告訴你們。我們不是都要睡覺，乃是都要改變，
Behold, I shew you a mystery; We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed,

15:52    就在一霎時，眨眼之間，號筒末次吹響的時候。因號筒要響，死人要復活成為不朽壞的，我們也要改變。
In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trump: for the trumpet shall sound, and the dead shall be raised incorruptible, and we shall be changed.

15:53    這必朽壞的，總要變成不朽壞的。（變成原文作穿下同）這必死的，總要變成不死的。
For this corruptible must put on incorruption, and this mortal must put on immortality.

15:54    這必朽壞的既變成不朽壞的。這必死的既變成不死的。那時經上所記，死被得勝吞滅的話就應驗了。
So when this corruptible shall have put on incorruption, and this mortal shall have put on immortality, then shall be brought to pass the saying that is written, Death is swallowed up in victory.

15:55    死阿，你得勝的權勢在那裡。死阿，你的毒鉤在那裡。
O death, where is thy sting? O grave, where is thy victory?

15:56    死的毒鉤就是罪。罪的權勢就是律法。
The sting of death is sin; and the strength of sin is the law.

15:57    感謝神，使我們藉著我們的主耶穌基督得勝。
But thanks be to God, which giveth us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ.

15:58    所以我親愛的弟兄們，你們務要堅固不可搖動，常常竭力多作主工，因為知道你們的勞苦，在主裡面不是徒然的。
Therefore, my beloved brethren, be ye stedfast, unmoveable, always abounding in the work of the Lord, forasmuch as ye know that your labour is not in vain in the Lord.




新約 -- 哥林多前書(1 Corinthians) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 16 章 )    　


16:1    論到為聖徒捐錢，我從前怎樣吩咐加拉太的眾教會，你們也當怎樣行。
Now concerning the collection for the saints, as I have given order to the churches of Galatia, even so do ye.

16:2    每逢七日的第一日，各人要照自己的進項抽出來留著。免得我來的時候現湊。
Upon the first day of the week let every one of you lay by him in store, as God hath prospered him, that there be no gatherings when I come.

16:3    及至我來到了，你們寫信舉薦誰，我就打發他們，把你們的捐資送到耶路撒冷去。
And when I come, whomsoever ye shall approve by your letters, them will I send to bring your liberality unto Jerusalem.

16:4    若我也該去，他們可以和我同去。
And if it be meet that I go also, they shall go with me.

16:5    我要從馬其頓經過。既經過了，就要到你們那裡去。
Now I will come unto you, when I shall pass through Macedonia: for I do pass through Macedonia.

16:6    或者和你們同住幾時，或者也過冬。無論我往那裡去，你們就可以給我送行。
And it may be that I will abide, yea, and winter with you, that ye may bring me on my journey whithersoever I go.

16:7    我如今不願意路過見你們。主若許我，我就指望和你們同住幾時。
For I will not see you now by the way; but I trust to tarry a while with you, if the Lord permit.

16:8    但我要仍舊住在以弗所，直等到五旬節。
But I will tarry at Ephesus until Pentecost.

16:9    因為有功效的門，為我開了，並且反對的人也多。
For a great door and effectual is opened unto me, and there are many adversaries.

16:10    若是提摩太來到，你們要留心，叫他在你們那裡無所懼怕。因為他勞力作主的工，像我一樣。
Now if Timotheus come, see that he may be with you without fear: for he worketh the work of the Lord, as I also do.

16:11    所以無論誰，都不可藐視他。只要送他平安前行，叫他到我這裡來。因我指望他和弟兄們同來。
Let no man therefore despise him: but conduct him forth in peace, that he may come unto me: for I look for him with the brethren.

16:12    至於兄弟亞波羅，我再三的勸他，同弟兄們到你們那裡去。但這時他決不願意去。幾時有了機會他必去。
As touching our brother Apollos, I greatly desired him to come unto you with the brethren: but his will was not at all to come at this time; but he will come when he shall have convenient time.

16:13    你們務要儆醒，在真道上站立得穩，要作大丈夫，要剛強。
Watch ye, stand fast in the faith, quit you like men, be strong.

16:14    凡你們所作的，都要憑愛心而作。
Let all your things be done with charity.

16:15    弟兄們，你們曉得司提反一家，是亞該亞初結的果子。並且他們專以服事聖徒為念。
I beseech you, brethren, (ye know the house of Stephanas, that it is the firstfruits of Achaia, and that they have addicted themselves to the ministry of the saints,)

16:16    我勸你們順服這樣的人，並一切同工同勞的人。
That ye submit yourselves unto such, and to every one that helpeth with us, and laboureth.

16:17    司提反，和福徒拿都，並亞該古，到這裡來，我很喜歡。因為你們待我有不及之處，他們補上了。
I am glad of the coming of Stephanas and Fortunatus and Achaicus: for that which was lacking on your part they have supplied.

16:18    他們叫我和你們心裡都快活。這樣的人，你們務要敬重。
For they have refreshed my spirit and yours: therefore acknowledge ye them that are such.

16:19    亞細亞的眾教會問你們安。亞居拉和百基拉，並在他們家裡的教會，因主多多的問你們安。
The churches of Asia salute you. Aquila and Priscilla salute you much in the Lord, with the church that is in their house.

16:20    眾弟兄都問你們安。你們要親嘴問安，彼此務要聖潔。
All the brethren greet you. Greet ye one another with an holy kiss.

16:21    我保羅親筆問安。
The salutation of me Paul with mine own hand.

16:22    若有人不愛主，這人可詛可咒。主必要來。
If any man love not the Lord Jesus Christ, let him be Anathema Maranatha.

16:23    願主耶穌基督的恩，常與你們眾人同在。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you.

16:24    我在基督耶穌裡的愛與你們眾人同在。阿們。
My love be with you all in Christ Jesus. Amen.



