

新約 -- 加拉太書(Galatians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　


1:1    作使徒的保羅，（不是由於人，也不是藉著人，乃是藉著耶穌基督，與叫他從死裡復活的父神）
Paul, an apostle, (not of men, neither by man, but by Jesus Christ, and God the Father, who raised him from the dead;)

1:2    和一切與我同在的眾弟兄，寫信給加拉太的各教會。
And all the brethren which are with me, unto the churches of Galatia:

1:3    願恩惠平安，從父神與我們的主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
Grace be to you and peace from God the Father, and from our Lord Jesus Christ,

1:4    基督照我們父神的旨意為我們的罪捨己，要救我們脫離這罪惡的世代。
Who gave himself for our sins, that he might deliver us from this present evil world, according to the will of God and our Father:

1:5    但願榮耀歸於神直到永永遠遠。阿們。
To whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

1:6    我希奇你們這嗎快離開那藉著基督之恩召你們的，去從別的福音。
I marvel that ye are so soon removed from him that called you into the grace of Christ unto another gospel:

1:7    那並不是福音不過有些人攪擾你們，要把基督的福音更改了。
Which is not another; but there be some that trouble you, and would pervert the gospel of Christ.

1:8    但無論是我們，是天上來的使者，若傳福音給你們，與我們所傳給你們的不同，他就應當被咒詛。
But though we, or an angel from heaven, preach any other gospel unto you than that which we have preached unto you, let him be accursed.

1:9    我們已經說了，現在又說，若有人傳福音給你們，與你們所領受的不同，他就應當被咒詛。
As we said before, so say I now again, If any man preach any other gospel unto you than that ye have received, let him be accursed.

1:10    我現在是要得人的心呢，還是要得神的心呢。我豈是討人的喜歡嗎。若仍舊討人的喜歡，我就不是基督的僕人了。
For do I now persuade men, or God? or do I seek to please men? for if I yet pleased men, I should not be the servant of Christ.

1:11    弟兄們，我告訴你們，我素來所傳的福音，不是出於人的意思。
But I certify you, brethren, that the gospel which was preached of me is not after man.

1:12    因為我不是從人領受的，也不是人教導我的，乃是從耶穌基督啟示來的。
For I neither received it of man, neither was I taught it, but by the revelation of Jesus Christ.

1:13    你們聽見我從前在猶太教中所行的事，怎樣極力逼迫殘害神的教會。
For ye have heard of my conversation in time past in the Jews' religion, how that beyond measure I persecuted the church of God, and wasted it:

1:14    我又在猶太教中，比我本國許多同歲的人更有長進，為我祖宗的遺傳更加熱心。
And profited in the Jews' religion above many my equals in mine own nation, being more exceedingly zealous of the traditions of my fathers.

1:15    然而那把我從母腹裡分別出來，又施恩召我的神，
But when it pleased God, who separated me from my mother's womb, and called me by his grace,

1:16    既然樂意將他兒子啟示在我心裡，叫我把他傳在外邦人中，我就沒有與屬血氣的人商量，
To reveal his Son in me, that I might preach him among the heathen; immediately I conferred not with flesh and blood:

1:17    也沒有上耶路撒冷去，見那些比我先作使徒的。惟獨往阿拉伯去。後又回到大馬士革。
Neither went I up to Jerusalem to them which were apostles before me; but I went into Arabia, and returned again unto Damascus.

1:18    過了三年，才上耶路撒冷去見嘰法，和他同住了十五天。
Then after three years I went up to Jerusalem to see Peter, and abode with him fifteen days.

1:19    至於別的使徒，除了主的兄弟雅各，我都沒有看見。
But other of the apostles saw I none, save James the Lord's brother.

1:20    我寫給你們的，不是謊話，這是我在神面前說的。
Now the things which I write unto you, behold, before God, I lie not.

1:21    以後我到了敘利亞和基利家境內。
Afterwards I came into the regions of Syria and Cilicia;

1:22    那時，猶太信基督的各教會都沒有見過我的面。
And was unknown by face unto the churches of Judaea which were in Christ:

1:23    不過聽說，那從前逼迫我們的，現在傳揚他原先所殘害的真道。
But they had heard only, That he which persecuted us in times past now preacheth the faith which once he destroyed.

1:24    他們就為我的緣故，歸榮耀給神。
And they glorified God in me.



新約 -- 加拉太書(Galatians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


2:1    過了十四年，我同巴拿巴又上耶路撒冷去，並帶著提多同去。
Then fourteen years after I went up again to Jerusalem with Barnabas, and took Titus with me also.

2:2    我是奉啟示上去的，把我在外邦人中所傳的福音，對弟兄們陳說。卻是背地裡對那有名望之人說的。惟恐我現在，或是從前，徒然奔跑。
And I went up by revelation, and communicated unto them that gospel which I preach among the Gentiles, but privately to them which were of reputation, lest by any means I should run, or had run, in vain.

2:3    但與我同去的提多，雖是希臘人，也沒有勉強他受割禮。
But neither Titus, who was with me, being a Greek, was compelled to be circumcised:

2:4    因為有偷著引進來的假弟兄，私下窺探我們在基督耶穌裡的自由，要叫我們作奴僕。
And that because of false brethren unawares brought in, who came in privily to spy out our liberty which we have in Christ Jesus, that they might bring us into bondage:

2:5    我們就是一刻的工夫，也沒有容讓順服他們，為要叫福音的真理仍存在你們中間。
To whom we gave place by subjection, no, not for an hour; that the truth of the gospel might continue with you.

2:6    至於那些有名望的，不論他是何等人，都與我無干。神不以外貌取人。那些有名望的，並沒有加增我什麼。
But of these who seemed to be somewhat, (whatsoever they were, it maketh no matter to me: God accepteth no man's person:) for they who seemed to be somewhat in conference added nothing to me:

2:7    反倒看見了主託我傳福音給那未受割禮的人，正如託彼得傳福音給那受割禮的人。
But contrariwise, when they saw that the gospel of the uncircumcision was committed unto me, as the gospel of the circumcision was unto Peter;

2:8    （那感動彼得，叫他為受割禮之人作使徒的，也感動我，叫我為外邦人作使徒）
(For he that wrought effectually in Peter to the apostleship of the circumcision, the same was mighty in me toward the Gentiles:)

2:9    又知道所賜給我的恩典，那稱為教會柱石的雅各，嘰法，約翰，就向我和巴拿巴用右手行相交之禮，叫我們往外邦人那裡去，他們往受割禮的人那裡去。
And when James, Cephas, and John, who seemed to be pillars, perceived the grace that was given unto me, they gave to me and Barnabas the right hands of fellowship; that we should go unto the heathen, and they unto the circumcision.

2:10    只是願意我們記念窮人。這也是我本來熱心去行的。
Only they would that we should remember the poor; the same which I also was forward to do.

2:11    後來嘰法到了安提阿，因他有可責之處，我就當面抵擋他。
But when Peter was come to Antioch, I withstood him to the face, because he was to be blamed.

2:12    從雅各那裡來的人，未到以先，他和外邦人一同吃飯。及至他們來到，他因怕奉割禮的人，就退去與外邦人隔開了。
For before that certain came from James, he did eat with the Gentiles: but when they were come, he withdrew and separated himself, fearing them which were of the circumcision.

2:13    其餘的猶太人，也都隨著他裝假。甚至連巴拿巴也隨夥裝假。
And the other Jews dissembled likewise with him; insomuch that Barnabas also was carried away with their dissimulation.

2:14    但我一看他們行的不正，與福音的真理不合，就在眾人面前對磯法說，你既是猶太人，若隨外邦人行事，不隨猶太人行事，怎嗎還勉強外邦人隨猶太人呢。
But when I saw that they walked not uprightly according to the truth of the gospel, I said unto Peter before them all, If thou, being a Jew, livest after the manner of Gentiles, and not as do the Jews, why compellest thou the Gentiles to live as do the Jews?

2:15    我們這生來的猶太人，不是外邦的罪人，
We who are Jews by nature, and not sinners of the Gentiles,

2:16    既知道人稱義，不是因行律法，乃是因信耶穌基督，連我們也信了基督耶穌，使我們因信基督稱義，不因行律法稱義，因為凡有血氣的，沒有一人因行律法稱義。
Knowing that a man is not justified by the works of the law, but by the faith of Jesus Christ, even we have believed in Jesus Christ, that we might be justified by the faith of Christ, and not by the works of the law: for by the works of the law shall no flesh be justified.

2:17    我們若求在基督裡稱義，卻仍舊是罪人，難道基督是叫人犯罪的嗎。斷乎不是。
But if, while we seek to be justified by Christ, we ourselves also are found sinners, is therefore Christ the minister of sin? God forbid.

2:18    我素來所拆毀的，若重新建造，這就證明自己是犯罪的人。
For if I build again the things which I destroyed, I make myself a transgressor.

2:19    我因律法就向律法死了，叫我可以向神活著。
For I through the law am dead to the law, that I might live unto God.

2:20    我已經與基督同釘十字架。現在活著的，不再是我，乃是基督在我裡面活著。並且我如今在肉身活著，是因信神的兒子而活，他是愛我，為我捨己。
I am crucified with Christ: nevertheless I live; yet not I, but Christ liveth in me: and the life which I now live in the flesh I live by the faith of the Son of God, who loved me, and gave himself for me.

2:21    我不廢掉神的恩。義若是藉著律法得的，基督就是徒然死了。
I do not frustrate the grace of God: for if righteousness come by the law, then Christ is dead in vain.



新約 -- 加拉太書(Galatians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


3:1    無知的加拉太人哪，耶穌基督釘十字架，已經活畫在你們眼前，誰又迷惑了你們呢。
O foolish Galatians, who hath bewitched you, that ye should not obey the truth, before whose eyes Jesus Christ hath been evidently set forth, crucified among you?

3:2    我只要問你們這一件，你們受了聖靈，是因行律法呢，是因聽信福音呢。
This only would I learn of you, Received ye the Spirit by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?

3:3    你們既靠聖靈入門，如今還靠肉身成全嗎。你們是這樣的無知嗎。
Are ye so foolish? having begun in the Spirit, are ye now made perfect by the flesh?

3:4    你們受苦如此之多，都是徒然的嗎。難道果真是徒然的嗎。
Have ye suffered so many things in vain? if it be yet in vain.

3:5    那賜給你們聖靈，又在你們中間行異能的，是因你們行律法呢，是因你們聽信福音呢。
He therefore that ministereth to you the Spirit, and worketh miracles among you, doeth he it by the works of the law, or by the hearing of faith?

3:6    正如，亞伯拉罕信神，這就算為他的義。
Even as Abraham believed God, and it was accounted to him for righteousness.

3:7    所以你們要知道那以信為本的人，就是亞伯拉罕的子孫。
Know ye therefore that they which are of faith, the same are the children of Abraham.

3:8    並且聖經既然豫先看明，神要叫外邦人因信稱義，就早已傳福音給亞伯拉罕，說，萬國都必因你得福。
And the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the heathen through faith, preached before the gospel unto Abraham, saying, In thee shall all nations be blessed.

3:9    可見那以信為本的人，和有信心的亞伯拉罕一同得福。
So then they which be of faith are blessed with faithful Abraham.

3:10    凡以行律法為本的，都是被咒詛的。因為經上記著，凡不常照律法書上所記一切之事去行的，就被咒詛。
For as many as are of the works of the law are under the curse: for it is written, Cursed is every one that continueth not in all things which are written in the book of the law to do them.

3:11    沒有一個人靠著律法在神面前稱義，這是明顯的。因為經上說，義人必因信得生。
But that no man is justified by the law in the sight of God, it is evident: for, The just shall live by faith.

3:12    律法原不本乎信，只說，行這些事的，就必因此活著。
And the law is not of faith: but, The man that doeth them shall live in them.

3:13    基督既為我們受了咒詛，（受原文作成）就贖出我們脫離律法的咒詛。因為經上記著，凡掛在木頭上都是被咒詛的。
Christ hath redeemed us from the curse of the law, being made a curse for us: for it is written, Cursed is every one that hangeth on a tree:

3:14    這便叫亞伯拉罕的福，因基督耶穌可以臨到外邦人，使我們因信得著所應許的聖靈。
That the blessing of Abraham might come on the Gentiles through Jesus Christ; that we might receive the promise of the Spirit through faith.

3:15    弟兄們，我且照著人的常話說，雖然是人的文約，若已經立定了，就沒有能廢棄或加增的。
Brethren, I speak after the manner of men; Though it be but a man's covenant, yet if it be confirmed, no man disannulleth, or addeth thereto.

3:16    所應許的原是向亞伯拉罕和他子孫說的。神並不是說眾子孫，指著許多人，乃是說你那一個子孫，指著一個人，就是基督。
Now to Abraham and his seed were the promises made. He saith not, And to seeds, as of many; but as of one, And to thy seed, which is Christ.

3:17    我是這嗎說，神豫先所立的約，不能被那四百三十年以後的律法廢掉，叫應許歸於虛空。
And this I say, that the covenant, that was confirmed before of God in Christ, the law, which was four hundred and thirty years after, cannot disannul, that it should make the promise of none effect.

3:18    因為承受產業，若本乎律法，就不本乎應許。但神是憑著應許，把產業賜給亞伯拉罕。
For if the inheritance be of the law, it is no more of promise: but God gave it to Abraham by promise.



3:19    這樣說來，律法是為什麼有的呢。原是為過犯添上的，等候那蒙應許的子孫來到。並且是藉天使經中保之手設立的。
Wherefore then serveth the law? It was added because of transgressions, till the seed should come to whom the promise was made; and it was ordained by angels in the hand of a mediator.

3:20    但中保本不是為一面作的。神既是一位。
Now a mediator is not a mediator of one, but God is one.

3:21    這樣，律法是與神的應許反對嗎。斷乎不是。若曾傳一個能叫人得生命的律法，義就誠然本乎律法了。
Is the law then against the promises of God? God forbid: for if there had been a law given which could have given life, verily righteousness should have been by the law.

3:22    但聖經把眾人都圈在罪裡，使所應許的福因信耶穌基督，歸給那信的人。
But the scripture hath concluded all under sin, that the promise by faith of Jesus Christ might be given to them that believe.

3:23    但這因信得救的理，還未來以先，我們被看守在律法之下，直圈到那將來的真道顯明出來。
But before faith came, we were kept under the law, shut up unto the faith which should afterwards be revealed.

3:24    這樣律法是我們訓蒙的師傅，引我們到基督那裡，使我們因信稱義。
Wherefore the law was our schoolmaster to bring us unto Christ, that we might be justified by faith.

3:25    但這因信得救的理，既然來到，我們從此就不在師傅的手下了。
But after that faith is come, we are no longer under a schoolmaster.

3:26    所以你們因信基督耶穌，都是神的兒子。
For ye are all the children of God by faith in Christ Jesus.

3:27    你們受洗歸入基督的，都是披戴基督了。
For as many of you as have been baptized into Christ have put on Christ.

3:28    並不分猶太人，希臘人，自主的，為奴的，或男或女。因為你們在基督耶穌裡都成為一了。
There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither bond nor free, there is neither male nor female: for ye are all one in Christ Jesus.

3:29    你們既屬乎基督，就是亞伯拉罕的後裔，是照著應許承受產業的了。
And if ye be Christ's, then are ye Abraham's seed, and heirs according to the promise.



新約 -- 加拉太書(Galatians) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


4:1    我說那承受產業的，雖然是全業的主人，但為孩童的時候，卻與奴僕毫無分別。
Now I say, That the heir, as long as he is a child, differeth nothing from a servant, though he be lord of all;

4:2    乃在師傅和管家的手下，直等他父親豫定的時候來到。
But is under tutors and governors until the time appointed of the father.

4:3    我們為孩童的時候，受管於世俗小學之下，也是如此。
Even so we, when we were children, were in bondage under the elements of the world:

4:4    及至時候滿足，神就差遣他的兒子，為女人所生，且生在律法以下，
But when the fulness of the time was come, God sent forth his Son, made of a woman, made under the law,

4:5    要把律法以下的人贖出來，叫我們得著兒子的名分。
To redeem them that were under the law, that we might receive the adoption of sons.

4:6    你們既為兒子，神就差他兒子的靈，進入你們（原文作我們）的心，呼叫阿爸，父。
And because ye are sons, God hath sent forth the Spirit of his Son into your hearts, crying, Abba, Father.

4:7    可見，從此以後，你不是奴僕，乃是兒子了。既是兒子，就靠著神為後嗣。
Wherefore thou art no more a servant, but a son; and if a son, then an heir of God through Christ.

4:8    但從前你們不認識神的時候，是給那些本來不是神的作奴僕。
Howbeit then, when ye knew not God, ye did service unto them which by nature are no gods.

4:9    現在你們既然認識神，更可說是被神所認識的，怎嗎還要歸回那懦弱無用的小學，情願再給他作奴僕呢。
But now, after that ye have known God, or rather are known of God, how turn ye again to the weak and beggarly elements, whereunto ye desire again to be in bondage?

4:10    你們謹守日子，月分，節期，年分。
Ye observe days, and months, and times, and years.

4:11    我為你們害怕。惟恐我在你們身上是枉費了工夫。
I am afraid of you, lest I have bestowed upon you labour in vain.

4:12    弟兄們，我勸你們要向我一樣，因為我也像你們一樣。你們一點沒有虧負我。
Brethren, I beseech you, be as I am; for I am as ye are: ye have not injured me at all.

4:13    你們知道我頭一次傳福音給你們，是因為身體有疾病。
Ye know how through infirmity of the flesh I preached the gospel unto you at the first.

4:14    你們為我身體的緣故受試煉，沒有輕看我，也沒有厭棄我。反倒接待我，如同神的使者，如同基督耶穌。
And my temptation which was in my flesh ye despised not, nor rejected; but received me as an angel of God, even as Christ Jesus.

4:15    你們當日所誇的福氣在那裡呢。那時你們若能行，就是把自己的眼睛剜出來給我，也都情願。這是我可以給你們作見證的。
Where is then the blessedness ye spake of? for I bear you record, that, if it had been possible, ye would have plucked out your own eyes, and have given them to me.

4:16    如今我將真理告訴你們，就成了你們的仇敵嗎。
Am I therefore become your enemy, because I tell you the truth?

4:17    那些人熱心待你們，卻不是好意，是要離間（原文作把你們關在外面）你們，叫你們熱心待他們。
They zealously affect you, but not well; yea, they would exclude you, that ye might affect them.

4:18    在善事上，常用熱心待人，原是好的，卻不單我與你們同在的時候才這樣。
But it is good to be zealously affected always in a good thing, and not only when I am present with you.

4:19    我小子阿，我為你們再受生產之苦，直等到基督成形在你們心裡。
My little children, of whom I travail in birth again until Christ be formed in you,

4:20    我巴不得現今在你們那裡，改換口氣，因我為你們，心裡作難。
I desire to be present with you now, and to change my voice; for I stand in doubt of you.

4:21    你們這願意在律法以下的人，請告訴我，你們豈沒有聽見律法嗎。
Tell me, ye that desire to be under the law, do ye not hear the law?

4:22    因為律法上記著，亞伯拉罕有兩個兒子，一個是使女生的，一個是自主之婦人生的。
For it is written, that Abraham had two sons, the one by a bondmaid, the other by a freewoman.

4:23    然而那使女所生的，是按著血氣生的。那自主之婦人生的，是憑著應許生的。
But he who was of the bondwoman was born after the flesh; but he of the freewoman was by promise.

4:24    這都是比方。那兩個婦人，就是兩約。一約是出於西奈山，生子為奴，乃是夏甲。
Which things are an allegory: for these are the two covenants; the one from the mount Sinai, which gendereth to bondage, which is Agar.

4:25    這夏甲二字是指著阿拉伯的西奈山，與現在的耶路撒冷同類。因耶路撒冷和他的兒女都是為奴的。
For this Agar is mount Sinai in Arabia, and answereth to Jerusalem which now is, and is in bondage with her children.

4:26    但那在上的耶路撒冷是自主的，他是我們的母。
But Jerusalem which is above is free, which is the mother of us all.

4:27    因為經上記著，不懷孕不生養的，你要歡樂。未曾經過產難的，你要高聲歡呼，因為沒有丈夫的，比有丈夫的兒女更多。
For it is written, Rejoice, thou barren that bearest not; break forth and cry, thou that travailest not: for the desolate hath many more children than she which hath an husband.

4:28    弟兄們，我們是憑著應許作兒女，如同以撒一樣。
Now we, brethren, as Isaac was, are the children of promise.

4:29    當時那按著血氣生的，逼迫了那按著聖靈生的。現在也是這樣。
But as then he that was born after the flesh persecuted him that was born after the Spirit, even so it is now.

4:30    然而經上是怎嗎說的呢。是說，把使女和他兒子趕出去，因為使女的兒子，不可與自主婦人的兒子一同承受產業。
Nevertheless what saith the scripture? Cast out the bondwoman and her son: for the son of the bondwoman shall not be heir with the son of the freewoman.

4:31    弟兄們，這樣看來，我們不是使女的兒女，乃是自主婦人的兒女了。
So then, brethren, we are not children of the bondwoman, but of the free.



新約 -- 加拉太書(Galatians) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


5:1    基督釋放了我們，叫我們得自由，所以要站立得穩，不要再被奴僕的軛挾制。
Stand fast therefore in the liberty wherewith Christ hath made us free, and be not entangled again with the yoke of bondage.



5:2    我保羅告訴你們，若受割禮，基督就與你們無益了。
Behold, I Paul say unto you, that if ye be circumcised, Christ shall profit you nothing.

5:3    我再指著凡受割禮的人確實的說，他是欠著行全律法的債。
For I testify again to every man that is circumcised, that he is a debtor to do the whole law.

5:4    你們這要靠律法稱義的，是與基督隔絕，從恩典中墜落了。
Christ is become of no effect unto you, whosoever of you are justified by the law; ye are fallen from grace.

5:5    我們靠著聖靈，憑著信心，等候所盼望的義。
For we through the Spirit wait for the hope of righteousness by faith.

5:6    原來在基督耶穌裡，受割禮不受割禮，全無功效。惟獨使人生髮仁愛的信心，才有功效。
For in Jesus Christ neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision; but faith which worketh by love.

5:7    你們向來跑得好。有誰攔阻你們，叫你們不順從真理呢。
Ye did run well; who did hinder you that ye should not obey the truth?

5:8    這樣的勸導，不是出於那召你們的。
This persuasion cometh not of him that calleth you.

5:9    一點面酵能使全團都發起來。
A little leaven leaveneth the whole lump.

5:10    我在主裡很信你們必不懷別樣的心，但攪擾你們的，無論是誰，必擔當他的罪名。
I have confidence in you through the Lord, that ye will be none otherwise minded: but he that troubleth you shall bear his judgment, whosoever he be.

5:11    弟兄們，我若仍舊傳割禮，為什麼還受逼迫呢。若是這樣，那十字架討厭的地方就沒有了。
And I, brethren, if I yet preach circumcision, why do I yet suffer persecution? then is the offence of the cross ceased.

5:12    恨不得那攪亂你們的人，把自己割絕了。
I would they were even cut off which trouble you.

5:13    弟兄們，你們蒙召，是要得自由。只是不可將你們的自由當作放縱情慾的機會。總要用愛心互相服事。
For, brethren, ye have been called unto liberty; only use not liberty for an occasion to the flesh, but by love serve one another.

5:14    因為全律法都包在愛人如己這一句話之內了。
For all the law is fulfilled in one word, even in this; Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself.

5:15    你們要謹慎。若相咬相吞，只怕要彼此消滅了。
But if ye bite and devour one another, take heed that ye be not consumed one of another.

5:16    我說，你們當順著聖靈而行，就不放縱肉體的情慾了。
This I say then, Walk in the Spirit, and ye shall not fulfil the lust of the flesh.

5:17    因為情慾和聖靈相爭，聖靈和情慾相爭。這兩個是彼此相敵，使你們不能作所願意作的。
For the flesh lusteth against the Spirit, and the Spirit against the flesh: and these are contrary the one to the other: so that ye cannot do the things that ye would.

5:18    但你們若被聖靈引導，就不在律法以下。
But if ye be led of the Spirit, ye are not under the law.

5:19    情慾的事，都是顯而易見的。就如姦淫，汙穢，邪蕩，
Now the works of the flesh are manifest, which are these; Adultery, fornication, uncleanness, lasciviousness,

5:20    拜偶像，邪術，仇恨，爭競，忌恨，惱怒，結黨，紛爭，異端，
Idolatry, witchcraft, hatred, variance, emulations, wrath, strife, seditions, heresies,

5:21    嫉妒，（有古卷在此有凶殺二字）醉酒，荒宴等類，我從前告訴你們，現在又告訴你們，行這樣事的人，必不能承受神的國。
Envyings, murders, drunkenness, revellings, and such like: of the which I tell you before, as I have also told you in time past, that they which do such things shall not inherit the kingdom of God.

5:22    聖靈所結的果子，就是仁愛，喜樂，和平，忍耐，恩慈，良善，信實，
But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, longsuffering, gentleness, goodness, faith,

5:23    溫柔，節制。這樣的事，沒有律法禁止。
Meekness, temperance: against such there is no law.

5:24    凡屬基督耶穌的人，是已經把肉體，連肉體的邪情私慾，同釘在十字架上了。
And they that are Christ's have crucified the flesh with the affections and lusts.

5:25    我們若是靠聖靈得生，就當靠聖靈行事。
If we live in the Spirit, let us also walk in the Spirit.

5:26    不要貪圖虛名，彼此惹氣，互相嫉妒。
Let us not be desirous of vain glory, provoking one another, envying one another.



新約 -- 加拉太書(Galatians) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　


6:1    弟兄們，若有人偶然被過犯所勝，你們屬靈的人，就應當用溫柔的心，把他挽回過來。又當自己小心，恐怕也被引誘。
Brethren, if a man be overtaken in a fault, ye which are spiritual, restore such an one in the spirit of meekness; considering thyself, lest thou also be tempted.

6:2    你們各人的重擔要互相擔當，如此就完全了基督的律法。
Bear ye one another's burdens, and so fulfil the law of Christ.

6:3    人若無有，自己還以為有，就是自欺了。
For if a man think himself to be something, when he is nothing, he deceiveth himself.

6:4    各人應當察驗自己的行為，這樣，他所誇的就專在自己，不在別人了。
But let every man prove his own work, and then shall he have rejoicing in himself alone, and not in another.

6:5    因為各人必擔當自己的擔子。
For every man shall bear his own burden.

6:6    在道理上受教的，當把一切需用的供給施教的人。
Let him that is taught in the word communicate unto him that teacheth in all good things.

6:7    不要自欺，神是輕慢不得的。人種的是什麼，收的也是什麼。
Be not deceived; God is not mocked: for whatsoever a man soweth, that shall he also reap.

6:8    順著情慾撒種的，必從情慾收敗壞順著聖靈撒種的，必從聖靈收永生。
For he that soweth to his flesh shall of the flesh reap corruption; but he that soweth to the Spirit shall of the Spirit reap life everlasting.

6:9    我們行善，不可喪志。若不灰心，到了時候，就要收成。
And let us not be weary in well doing: for in due season we shall reap, if we faint not.

6:10    所以有了機會，就當向眾人行善。向信徒一家的人更當這樣。
As we have therefore opportunity, let us do good unto all men, especially unto them who are of the household of faith.

6:11    請看我親手寫給你們的字，是何等的大呢。
Ye see how large a letter I have written unto you with mine own hand.

6:12    凡希圖外貌體面的人，都勉強你們受割禮。無非是怕自己為基督的十字架受逼迫。
As many as desire to make a fair shew in the flesh, they constrain you to be circumcised; only lest they should suffer persecution for the cross of Christ.

6:13    他們那些受割禮的，連自己也不守律法。他們願意你們受割禮，不過要藉著你們的肉體誇口。
For neither they themselves who are circumcised keep the law; but desire to have you circumcised, that they may glory in your flesh.

6:14    但我斷不以別的誇口，只誇我們主耶穌基督的十字架。因這十字架，就我而論，世界已經釘在十字架上。就世界而論，我已經釘在十字架上。
But God forbid that I should glory, save in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by whom the world is crucified unto me, and I unto the world.

6:15    受割禮不受割禮都無關緊要，要緊的就是作新造的人。
For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision availeth any thing, nor uncircumcision, but a new creature.

6:16    凡照此理而行的，願平安憐憫加給他們，和神的以色列民。
And as many as walk according to this rule, peace be on them, and mercy, and upon the Israel of God.

6:17    從今以後，人都不要攪擾我。因為我身上帶著耶穌的印記。
From henceforth let no man trouble me: for I bear in my body the marks of the Lord Jesus.

6:18    弟兄們，願我主耶穌基督的恩常在你們心裡。阿們。
Brethren, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.


