
新約 -- 以弗所書(Ephesians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　


1:1    奉神旨意，作基督耶穌使徒的保羅，寫信給在以弗所的聖徒，就是在基督耶穌裡有忠心的人。
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, to the saints which are at Ephesus, and to the faithful in Christ Jesus:

1:2    願恩惠平安，從神我們的父，和主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
Grace be to you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3    願頌讚歸與我們主耶穌基督的父神，他在基督裡，曾賜給我們天上各樣屬靈的福氣。
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who hath blessed us with all spiritual blessings in heavenly places in Christ:

1:4    就如神從創立世界以前，在基督裡揀選了我們，使我們在他面前成為聖潔，無有瑕疵。
According as he hath chosen us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and without blame before him in love:

1:5    又因愛我們，就按著自己意旨所喜悅的，豫定我們，藉著耶穌基督得兒子的名分，
Having predestinated us unto the adoption of children by Jesus Christ to himself, according to the good pleasure of his will,

1:6    使他榮耀的恩典得著稱讚。這恩典是他在愛子裡所賜給我們的。
To the praise of the glory of his grace, wherein he hath made us accepted in the beloved.

1:7    我們藉這愛子的血，得蒙救贖，過犯得以赦免，乃是照他豐富的恩典。
In whom we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of sins, according to the riches of his grace;

1:8    這恩典是神用諸般智慧聰明，充充足足賞給我們的，
Wherein he hath abounded toward us in all wisdom and prudence;

1:9    都是照他自己所豫定的美意，叫我們知道他旨意的奧祕，
Having made known unto us the mystery of his will, according to his good pleasure which he hath purposed in himself:

1:10    要照所安排的，在日期滿足的時候，使天上地上一切所有的，都在基督裡同歸於一。
That in the dispensation of the fulness of times he might gather together in one all things in Christ, both which are in heaven, and which are on earth; even in him:

1:11    我們也在他裡面得了基業，（得或作成）這原是那位隨己意行作萬事的，照著他旨意所豫定的。
In whom also we have obtained an inheritance, being predestinated according to the purpose of him who worketh all things after the counsel of his own will:

1:12    叫他的榮耀，從我們這首先在基督裡有盼望的人，可以得著稱讚。
That we should be to the praise of his glory, who first trusted in Christ.

1:13    你們既聽見真裡的道，就是那叫你們得救的福音，也信了基督，既然信他，就受了所應許的聖靈為印記。
In whom ye also trusted, after that ye heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation: in whom also after that ye believed, ye were sealed with that holy Spirit of promise,

1:14    這聖靈，是我們得基業的憑據，（原文作質）直等到神之民（民原文作產業）被贖，使他的榮耀得著稱讚。
Which is the earnest of our inheritance until the redemption of the purchased possession, unto the praise of his glory.

1:15    因此，我既聽見你們信從主耶穌，親愛眾聖徒，
Wherefore I also, after I heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus, and love unto all the saints,

1:16    就為你們不住的感謝神，禱告的時候，常題到你們。
Cease not to give thanks for you, making mention of you in my prayers;

1:17    求我們主耶穌基督的神，榮耀的父，將那賜人智慧和啟示的靈，賞給你們，使你們真知道他。
That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give unto you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of him:

1:18    並且照明你們心中的眼睛，使你們知道他的恩召有何等指望。他在聖徒中得的基業，有何等豐盛的榮耀。
The eyes of your understanding being enlightened; that ye may know what is the hope of his calling, and what the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints,

1:19    並知道他向我們這信的人所顯的能力，是何等浩大，
And what is the exceeding greatness of his power to us-ward who believe, according to the working of his mighty power,

1:20    就是照他在基督身上，所執行的大能大力，使他從死裡復活，叫他在天上坐在自己的右邊，
Which he wrought in Christ, when he raised him from the dead, and set him at his own right hand in the heavenly places,

1:21    遠超過一切執政的，掌權的，有能的，主治的，和一切有名的。不但是今世的，連來世的也都超過了。
Far above all principality, and power, and might, and dominion, and every name that is named, not only in this world, but also in that which is to come:

1:22    又將萬有服在他的腳下，使他為教會作萬有之首。
And hath put all things under his feet, and gave him to be the head over all things to the church,

1:23    教會是他的身體，是那充滿萬有者所充滿的。
Which is his body, the fulness of him that filleth all in all.



新約 -- 以弗所書(Ephesians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


2:1    你們死在過犯罪惡之中，他叫你們活過來，
And you hath he quickened, who were dead in trespasses and sins;

2:2    那時你們在其中行事為人隨從今世的風俗，順服空中掌權者的首領，就是現今在悖逆之子心中執行的邪靈。
Wherein in time past ye walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that now worketh in the children of disobedience:

2:3    我們從前也都在他們中間，放縱肉體的私慾，隨著肉體和心中所喜好的去行，本為可怒之子，和別人一樣。
Among whom also we all had our conversation in times past in the lusts of our flesh, fulfilling the desires of the flesh and of the mind; and were by nature the children of wrath, even as others.

2:4    然而神既有豐富的憐憫。因他愛我們的大愛，
But God, who is rich in mercy, for his great love wherewith he loved us,

2:5    當我們死在過犯中的時候，便叫我們與基督一同活過來。（你們得救是本乎恩）
Even when we were dead in sins, hath quickened us together with Christ, (by grace ye are saved;)

2:6    他又叫我們與基督耶穌一同復活，一同坐在天上，
And hath raised us up together, and made us sit together in heavenly places in Christ Jesus:

2:7    要將他極豐富的恩典，就是他在基督耶穌裡向我們所施的恩慈，顯明給後來的世代看。
That in the ages to come he might shew the exceeding riches of his grace in his kindness toward us through Christ Jesus.

2:8    你們得救是本乎恩，也因著信，這並不是出於自己，乃是神所賜的。
For by grace are ye saved through faith; and that not of yourselves: it is the gift of God:

2:9    也不是出於行為，免得有人自誇。
Not of works, lest any man should boast.

2:10    我們原是他的工作，在基督耶穌裡造成的，為要叫我們行善，就是神所豫備叫我們行的。
For we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus unto good works, which God hath before ordained that we should walk in them.

2:11    所以你們應當記念，你們從前按肉體是外邦人，是稱為沒受割禮的，這名原是那些憑人手在肉身上稱為受割禮之人所起的。
Wherefore remember, that ye being in time past Gentiles in the flesh, who are called Uncircumcision by that which is called the Circumcision in the flesh made by hands;

2:12    那時你們與基督無關，在以色列國民以外，在所應許的諸約上是局外人。並且活在世上沒有指望，沒有神。
That at that time ye were without Christ, being aliens from the commonwealth of Israel, and strangers from the covenants of promise, having no hope, and without God in the world:

2:13    你們從前遠離神的人，如今卻在基督耶穌裡，靠著他的血，已經得親近了。
But now in Christ Jesus ye who sometimes were far off are made nigh by the blood of Christ.

2:14    因他使我們和睦，（原文作因他是我們的和睦）將兩下合而為一，拆毀了中間隔斷的牆。
For he is our peace, who hath made both one, and hath broken down the middle wall of partition between us;

2:15    而且以自己的身體，廢掉冤仇，就是那記在律法上的規條。為要將兩下，藉著自己造成一個新人，如此便成就了和睦。
Having abolished in his flesh the enmity, even the law of commandments contained in ordinances; for to make in himself of twain one new man, so making peace;

2:16    既在十字架上滅了冤仇，便藉這十字架，使兩下歸為一體，與神和好了。
And that he might reconcile both unto God in one body by the cross, having slain the enmity thereby:

2:17    並且來傳和平的福音給你們遠處的人，也給那近處的人。
And came and preached peace to you which were afar off, and to them that were nigh.

2:18    因為我們兩下藉著他被一個聖靈所感得以進到父面前。
For through him we both have access by one Spirit unto the Father.

2:19    這樣，你們不再作外人，和客旅，是與聖徒同國，是神家裡的人了。
Now therefore ye are no more strangers and foreigners, but fellowcitizens with the saints, and of the household of God;

2:20    並且被建造在使徒和先知的根基上，有基督耶穌自己為房角石。
And are built upon the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Jesus Christ himself being the chief corner stone;

2:21    各（或作全）房靠他聯絡得合式，漸漸成為主的聖殿。
In whom all the building fitly framed together groweth unto an holy temple in the Lord:

2:22    你們也靠他同被建造成為神藉著聖靈居住的所在。
In whom ye also are builded together for an habitation of God through the Spirit.



新約 -- 以弗所書(Ephesians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


3:1    因此，我保羅為你們外邦人作了基督耶穌被囚的，替你們祈禱（此句乃照對十四節所加）
For this cause I Paul, the prisoner of Jesus Christ for you Gentiles,

3:2    掠必你們曾聽見神賜恩給我，將關切你們的職分託付我，
If ye have heard of the dispensation of the grace of God which is given me to you-ward:

3:3    用啟示使我知道福音的奧祕，正如我以前略略寫過的。
How that by revelation he made known unto me the mystery; (as I wrote afore in few words,

3:4    你們唸了，就能曉得我是深知基督的奧祕。
Whereby, when ye read, ye may understand my knowledge in the mystery of Christ)

3:5    這奧祕在以前的世代，沒有叫人知道，像如今藉著聖靈啟示他的聖使徒和先知一樣。
Which in other ages was not made known unto the sons of men, as it is now revealed unto his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit;

3:6    這奧祕就是外邦人在基督耶穌裡，藉著福音，得以同為後嗣，同為一體，同蒙應許。
That the Gentiles should be fellowheirs, and of the same body, and partakers of his promise in Christ by the gospel:

3:7    我作了這福音的執事，是照神的恩賜。這恩賜是照他執行的大能賜給我的。
Whereof I was made a minister, according to the gift of the grace of God given unto me by the effectual working of his power.

3:8    我本來比眾聖徒中最小的還小。然而他還賜我這恩典，叫我把基督那測不透的豐富，傳給外邦人。
Unto me, who am less than the least of all saints, is this grace given, that I should preach among the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ;

3:9    又使眾人都明白，這歷代以來隱藏在創造萬物之神裡的奧祕，是如何安排的。
And to make all men see what is the fellowship of the mystery, which from the beginning of the world hath been hid in God, who created all things by Jesus Christ:

3:10    為要藉著教會使天上執政的，掌權的，現在得知神百般的智慧。
To the intent that now unto the principalities and powers in heavenly places might be known by the church the manifold wisdom of God,

3:11    這是照神從萬世以前，在我們主基督耶穌裡所定的旨意。
According to the eternal purpose which he purposed in Christ Jesus our Lord:

3:12    我們因信耶穌，就在他裡面放膽無懼，篤信不疑的來到神面前。
In whom we have boldness and access with confidence by the faith of him.

3:13    所以我求你們，不要因我為你們所受的患難喪膽。這原是你們的榮耀。
Wherefore I desire that ye faint not at my tribulations for you, which is your glory.

3:14    因此，我在父面前屈膝，
For this cause I bow my knees unto the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ,

3:15    （天上地上的各（或作全）家，都是從他得名）
Of whom the whole family in heaven and earth is named,

3:16    求他按著他豐盛的榮耀，藉著他的靈，叫你們心裡的力量剛強起來，
That he would grant you, according to the riches of his glory, to be strengthened with might by his Spirit in the inner man;

3:17    使基督因你們的信，住在你們心裡，叫你們的愛心，有根有基，
That Christ may dwell in your hearts by faith; that ye, being rooted and grounded in love,

3:18    能以和眾聖徒一同明白基督的愛，是何等長闊高深，
May be able to comprehend with all saints what is the breadth, and length, and depth, and height;

3:19    並且知道這愛是過於人所能測度的，便叫神一切所充滿的，充滿了你們。
And to know the love of Christ, which passeth knowledge, that ye might be filled with all the fulness of God.

3:20    神能照著執行在我們心裡的大力，充充足足的成就一切超過我們所求所想的。
Now unto him that is able to do exceeding abundantly above all that we ask or think, according to the power that worketh in us,

3:21    但願他在教會中，並在基督耶穌裡，得著榮耀，直到世世代代，永永遠遠。阿們。
Unto him be glory in the church by Christ Jesus throughout all ages, world without end. Amen.



新約 -- 以弗所書(Ephesians) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


4:1    我為主被囚的勸你們，既然蒙召，行事為人就當與蒙召的恩相稱。
I therefore, the prisoner of the Lord, beseech you that ye walk worthy of the vocation wherewith ye are called,

4:2    凡事謙虛，溫柔，忍耐，用愛心互相寬容，
With all lowliness and meekness, with longsuffering, forbearing one another in love;

4:3    用和平彼此聯絡，竭力保守聖靈所賜合而為一的心。
Endeavouring to keep the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace.

4:4    身體只有一個，聖靈只有一個，正如你們蒙召，同有一個指望，
There is one body, and one Spirit, even as ye are called in one hope of your calling;

4:5    一主，一信，一洗，
One Lord, one faith, one baptism,

4:6    一神，就是眾人的父，超乎眾人之上，貫乎眾人之中，也住在眾人之內。
One God and Father of all, who is above all, and through all, and in you all.

4:7    我們各人蒙恩，都是照基督所量給各人的恩賜。
But unto every one of us is given grace according to the measure of the gift of Christ.

4:8    所以經上說，他升上高天的時候，擄掠了仇敵，將各樣的恩賜賞給人。
Wherefore he saith, When he ascended up on high, he led captivity captive, and gave gifts unto men.

4:9    （既說升上，豈不是先降在地下嗎。
(Now that he ascended, what is it but that he also descended first into the lower parts of the earth?

4:10    那降下的，就是遠升諸天之上要充滿萬有的
He that descended is the same also that ascended up far above all heavens, that he might fill all things.)

4:11    他所賜的有使徒，有先知。有傳福音的。有牧師和教師。
And he gave some, apostles; and some, prophets; and some, evangelists; and some, pastors and teachers;

4:12    為要成全聖徒，各盡其職，建立基督的身體。
For the perfecting of the saints, for the work of the ministry, for the edifying of the body of Christ:

4:13    直等到我們眾人在真道上同歸於一，認識神的兒子，得以長大成人，滿有基督長成的身量。
Till we all come in the unity of the faith, and of the knowledge of the Son of God, unto a perfect man, unto the measure of the stature of the fulness of Christ:

4:14    使我們不再作小孩子，中了人的詭計，和欺騙的法術，被一切異教之風搖動，飄來飄去，就隨從各樣的異端。
That we henceforth be no more children, tossed to and fro, and carried about with every wind of doctrine, by the sleight of men, and cunning craftiness, whereby they lie in wait to deceive;

4:15    惟用愛心說誠實話，凡事長進，連於元首基督。
But speaking the truth in love, may grow up into him in all things, which is the head, even Christ:

4:16    全身都靠他聯絡得合式，百節各按各職，照著各體的功用，彼此相助，便叫身體漸漸增長，在愛中建立自己。
From whom the whole body fitly joined together and compacted by that which every joint supplieth, according to the effectual working in the measure of every part, maketh increase of the body unto the edifying of itself in love.

4:17    所以我說，且在主裡確實的說，你們行事，不要再像外邦人存虛妄的心行事。
This I say therefore, and testify in the Lord, that ye henceforth walk not as other Gentiles walk, in the vanity of their mind,

4:18    他們心地昏昧，與神所賜的生命隔絕了，都因自己無知，心裡剛硬。
Having the understanding darkened, being alienated from the life of God through the ignorance that is in them, because of the blindness of their heart:

4:19    良心既然喪盡，就放縱私慾，貪行種種的汙穢。
Who being past feeling have given themselves over unto lasciviousness, to work all uncleanness with greediness.

4:20    你們學了基督，卻不是這樣。
But ye have not so learned Christ;

4:21    如果你們聽過他的道，領了他的教，學了他的真理，
If so be that ye have heard him, and have been taught by him, as the truth is in Jesus:

4:22    就要脫去你們從前行為上的舊人。這舊人是因私慾的迷惑，漸漸變壞的。
That ye put off concerning the former conversation the old man, which is corrupt according to the deceitful lusts;

4:23    又要將你們的心志改換一新。
And be renewed in the spirit of your mind;

4:24    並且穿上新人。這新人是照著神的形像造的，有真裡的仁義，和聖潔。
And that ye put on the new man, which after God is created in righteousness and true holiness.

4:25    所以你們要棄絕謊言，各人與鄰舍說實話。因為我們是互相為肢體。
Wherefore putting away lying, speak every man truth with his neighbour: for we are members one of another.

4:26    生氣卻不要犯罪。不可含怒到日落。
Be ye angry, and sin not: let not the sun go down upon your wrath:

4:27    也不可給魔鬼留地步。
Neither give place to the devil.

4:28    從前偷竊的，不要再偷。總要勞力，親手作正經事，就可有餘分給那缺少的人。我們工作不謹是為我們自己，也應當為別人。
Let him that stole steal no more: but rather let him labour, working with his hands the thing which is good, that he may have to give to him that needeth.

4:29    汙穢的言語，一句不可出口，只要隨事說造就人的好話，叫聽見的人得益處。
Let no corrupt communication proceed out of your mouth, but that which is good to the use of edifying, that it may minister grace unto the hearers.

4:30    不要叫神的聖靈擔憂。你們原是受了他的印記，等候得贖的日子來到。
And grieve not the holy Spirit of God, whereby ye are sealed unto the day of redemption.

4:31    一切苦毒，腦恨，忿怒，囔鬧，毀謗，並一切的惡毒，（或作陰毒）都當從你們中間除掉。
Let all bitterness, and wrath, and anger, and clamour, and evil speaking, be put away from you, with all malice:

4:32    並要以恩慈相待，存憐憫的心，彼此饒恕，正如神在基督裡饒恕了你們一樣。
And be ye kind one to another, tenderhearted, forgiving one another, even as God for Christ's sake hath forgiven you.



新約 -- 以弗所書(Ephesians) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


5:1    所以你們該效法神，好像蒙慈愛的兒女一樣。
Be ye therefore followers of God, as dear children;

5:2    也要憑愛心行事，正如基督愛我們，為我們舍了自己，當作馨香的供物，和祭物，獻與神。
And walk in love, as Christ also hath loved us, and hath given himself for us an offering and a sacrifice to God for a sweetsmelling savour.

5:3    至於淫亂，並一切汙穢，或是貪婪，在你們中間連題都不可，方合聖徒的體統。
But fornication, and all uncleanness, or covetousness, let it not be once named among you, as becometh saints;

5:4    淫詞，妄語，和戲笑的話，都不相宜，總要說感謝的話。
Neither filthiness, nor foolish talking, nor jesting, which are not convenient: but rather giving of thanks.

5:5    因為你們確實的知道，無論是淫亂的，是汙穢的，是有貪心的，在基督和神的國裡，都是無分的。有貪心的，就與拜偶像的一樣。
For this ye know, that no whoremonger, nor unclean person, nor covetous man, who is an idolater, hath any inheritance in the kingdom of Christ and of God.

5:6    不要被人虛浮的話欺哄。因這些事，神的忿怒必臨到那悖逆之子。
Let no man deceive you with vain words: for because of these things cometh the wrath of God upon the children of disobedience.

5:7    所以你們不要與他們同夥。
Be not ye therefore partakers with them.

5:8    從前你們是闇昧的，但如今在主裡面是光明的，行事為人就當像光明的子女。
For ye were sometimes darkness, but now are ye light in the Lord: walk as children of light:

5:9    光明所結的果子，就是一切良善，公義，誠實。
(For the fruit of the Spirit is in all goodness and righteousness and truth;)

5:10    總要察驗何為主所喜悅的事。
Proving what is acceptable unto the Lord.

5:11    那闇昧無益的事，不要與人同行，倒要責備行這事的人
And have no fellowship with the unfruitful works of darkness, but rather reprove them.

5:12    因為他們暗中所行的，就是題起來，也是可恥的。
For it is a shame even to speak of those things which are done of them in secret.

5:13    凡事受了責備，就被光顯明出來。因為一切能顯明的，就是光。
But all things that are reproved are made manifest by the light: for whatsoever doth make manifest is light.

5:14    所以主說，你這睡著的人，當醒過來，從死裡復活，基督就要光照你了。
Wherefore he saith, Awake thou that sleepest, and arise from the dead, and Christ shall give thee light.

5:15    你們要謹慎行事，不要像愚昧人，當像智慧人。
See then that ye walk circumspectly, not as fools, but as wise,

5:16    要愛惜光陰，因為現今的世代邪惡。
Redeeming the time, because the days are evil.

5:17    不要作糊塗人，要明白主的旨意如何。
Wherefore be ye not unwise, but understanding what the will of the Lord is.

5:18    不要醉酒，酒能使人放蕩，乃要被聖靈充滿。
And be not drunk with wine, wherein is excess; but be filled with the Spirit;

5:19    當用詩章，頌詞，靈歌，彼此對說，口唱心和的讚美主。
Speaking to yourselves in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing and making melody in your heart to the Lord;

5:20    凡事要奉我們主耶穌基督的名，常常感謝父神。
Giving thanks always for all things unto God and the Father in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ;

5:21    又當存敬畏基督的心，彼此順服。
Submitting yourselves one to another in the fear of God.

5:22    你們作妻子的，當順服自己的丈夫，如同順服主。
Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as unto the Lord.

5:23    因為丈夫是妻子的頭，如同基督是教會的頭。他又是教會全體的救主。
For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church: and he is the saviour of the body.

5:24    教會怎樣順服基督，妻子也要怎樣凡事順服丈夫。
Therefore as the church is subject unto Christ, so let the wives be to their own husbands in every thing.

5:25    你們作丈夫的，要愛你們的妻子，正如基督愛教會，為教會捨己。
Husbands, love your wives, even as Christ also loved the church, and gave himself for it;

5:26    要用水藉著道，把教會洗淨，成為聖潔，
That he might sanctify and cleanse it with the washing of water by the word,

5:27    可以獻給自己，作個榮耀的教會，毫無玷汙皺紋等類的病，乃是聖潔沒有瑕疵的。
That he might present it to himself a glorious church, not having spot, or wrinkle, or any such thing; but that it should be holy and without blemish.

5:28    丈夫也當照樣愛妻子，如同愛自己的身子。愛妻子，便是愛自己了。
So ought men to love their wives as their own bodies. He that loveth his wife loveth himself.

5:29    從來沒有人恨惡自己的身子，總是保養顧惜，正像基督待教會一樣。
For no man ever yet hated his own flesh; but nourisheth and cherisheth it, even as the Lord the church:

5:30    因我們是他身上的肢體。（有古卷在此有就是他的骨他的肉）。
For we are members of his body, of his flesh, and of his bones.

5:31    為這個緣故，人要離開父母，與妻子連合，二人成為一體。
For this cause shall a man leave his father and mother, and shall be joined unto his wife, and they two shall be one flesh.

5:32    這是極大的奧祕，但我是指著基督和教會說的。
This is a great mystery: but I speak concerning Christ and the church.

5:33    然而你們各人都當愛妻子，如同愛自己一樣。妻子也當敬重他的丈夫。
Nevertheless let every one of you in particular so love his wife even as himself; and the wife see that she reverence her husband.



新約 -- 以弗所書(Ephesians) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　


6:1    你們作兒女的，要在主裡聽從父母，這是理所當然的。
Children, obey your parents in the Lord: for this is right.



6:2    要孝敬父母，使你們得福，在世長壽。
Honour thy father and mother; which is the first commandment with promise;

6:3    *這是第一條帶應許的誡命。
That it may be well with thee, and thou mayest live long on the earth.

6:4    你們作父親的，不要惹兒女的氣，只要照著主的教訓和警戒，養育他們。
And, ye fathers, provoke not your children to wrath: but bring them up in the nurture and admonition of the Lord.

6:5    你們作僕人的，要懼怕戰兢，用誠實的心聽從你們肉身的主人，好像聽從基督一般。
Servants, be obedient to them that are your masters according to the flesh, with fear and trembling, in singleness of your heart, as unto Christ;

6:6    不要只在眼前事奉，像是討人喜歡的，要像基督的僕人，從心裡遵行神的旨意。
Not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but as the servants of Christ, doing the will of God from the heart;

6:7    甘心事奉，好像服事主，不像服事人。
With good will doing service, as to the Lord, and not to men:

6:8    因為曉得各人所行的善事，不論是為奴的，是自主的，都必按所行的得主的賞賜
Knowing that whatsoever good thing any man doeth, the same shall he receive of the Lord, whether he be bond or free.

6:9    你們作主人的待僕人，也是一理，不要威嚇他們。因為知道他們和你們，同有一位主在天上，他並不偏待人。
And, ye masters, do the same things unto them, forbearing threatening: knowing that your Master also is in heaven; neither is there respect of persons with him.

6:10    我還有末了的話，你們要靠著主，倚賴他的大能大力，作剛強的人。
Finally, my brethren, be strong in the Lord, and in the power of his might.

6:11    要穿戴神所賜的全副軍裝，就能抵擋魔鬼的詭計。
Put on the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to stand against the wiles of the devil.

6:12    因我們並不是與屬血氣的爭戰，乃是與那些執政的，掌權的，管轄這幽暗世界的，以及天空屬靈氣的惡魔爭戰。（兩爭戰原都作摔跤）
For we wrestle not against flesh and blood, but against principalities, against powers, against the rulers of the darkness of this world, against spiritual wickedness in high places.

6:13    所以要拿起神所賜的全副軍裝，好在磨難的日子，抵擋仇敵，並且成就了一切，還能站立得住。
Wherefore take unto you the whole armour of God, that ye may be able to withstand in the evil day, and having done all, to stand.

6:14    所以要站穩了，用真理當作帶子束腰，用公義當作護心鏡遮胸。
Stand therefore, having your loins girt about with truth, and having on the breastplate of righteousness;

6:15    又用平安的福音，當作豫備走路的鞋穿在腳上，
And your feet shod with the preparation of the gospel of peace;

6:16    此外又拿著信德當作藤牌，可以滅盡那惡者一切的火箭。
Above all, taking the shield of faith, wherewith ye shall be able to quench all the fiery darts of the wicked.

6:17    並戴上救恩的頭盔，拿著聖靈的寶劍，就是神的道。
And take the helmet of salvation, and the sword of the Spirit, which is the word of God:

6:18    靠著聖靈，隨時多方禱告祈求，並要在此儆醒不倦，為眾聖徒祈求，
Praying always with all prayer and supplication in the Spirit, and watching thereunto with all perseverance and supplication for all saints;

6:19    也為我祈求，使我得著口才，能以放膽，開口講明福音的奧祕，
And for me, that utterance may be given unto me, that I may open my mouth boldly, to make known the mystery of the gospel,

6:20    （我為這福音的奧祕，作了帶鎖鏈的使者）並使我照著當盡的本分，放膽講論。
For which I am an ambassador in bonds: that therein I may speak boldly, as I ought to speak.

6:21    今有所親愛忠心事奉主的兄弟推基古，他要把我的事情並我的景況如何，全告訴你們叫你們知道。
But that ye also may know my affairs, and how I do, Tychicus, a beloved brother and faithful minister in the Lord, shall make known to you all things:

6:22    我特意打發他到你們那裡去，好叫你們知道我們的光景，又叫他安慰你們的心。
Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that ye might know our affairs, and that he might comfort your hearts.

6:23    願平安，仁愛，信心，從父神和主耶穌基督，歸與弟兄。
Peace be to the brethren, and love with faith, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

6:24    並願所有誠心愛我們主耶穌基督的人，都蒙恩惠。
Grace be with all them that love our Lord Jesus Christ in sincerity. Amen.



