
新約 -- 腓立比書(Philippians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


1:1    基督耶穌的僕人保羅，和提摩太，寫信給凡住腓立比，在基督耶穌裡的眾聖徒，和諸位監督，諸位執事。
Paul and Timotheus, the servants of Jesus Christ, to all the saints in Christ Jesus which are at Philippi, with the bishops and deacons:

1:2    願恩惠平安，從神我們的父，並主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3    我每逢想念你們，就感謝我的神。
I thank my God upon every remembrance of you,

1:4    （每逢為你們眾人祈求的時候，常是歡歡喜喜的祈求）
Always in every prayer of mine for you all making request with joy,

1:5    因為從頭一天直到如今，你們是同心合意的興旺福音。
For your fellowship in the gospel from the first day until now;

1:6    我深信那在你們心裡動了善工的，必成全這工，直到耶穌基督的日子。
Being confident of this very thing, that he which hath begun a good work in you will perform it until the day of Jesus Christ:

1:7    我為你們眾人有這樣的意念，原是應當的。因你們常在我心裡，無論我是在捆鎖之中，是辯明證實福音的時候，你們都與我一同得恩。
Even as it is meet for me to think this of you all, because I have you in my heart; inasmuch as both in my bonds, and in the defence and confirmation of the gospel, ye all are partakers of my grace.

1:8    我體會基督耶穌的心腸，切切的想念你們眾人。這是神可以給我作見證的。
For God is my record, how greatly I long after you all in the bowels of Jesus Christ.

1:9    我所禱告的，就是要你們的愛心，在知識和各樣見識上，多而又多。
And this I pray, that your love may abound yet more and more in knowledge and in all judgment;

1:10    使你們能分別是非，（或作喜愛那美好的事）作誠實無過的人，直到基督的日子。
That ye may approve things that are excellent; that ye may be sincere and without offence till the day of Christ;

1:11    並靠著耶穌基督結滿了仁義的果子，叫榮耀稱讚歸與神。
Being filled with the fruits of righteousness, which are by Jesus Christ, unto the glory and praise of God.

1:12    弟兄們，我願意你們知道，我所遭遇的事，更是叫福音興旺。
But I would ye should understand, brethren, that the things which happened unto me have fallen out rather unto the furtherance of the gospel;

1:13    以致我受的捆鎖，在御營全軍，和其餘的人中，已經顯明是為基督的緣故。
So that my bonds in Christ are manifest in all the palace, and in all other places;

1:14    並且那在主裡的弟兄，多半因我受的捆鎖，就篤信不疑，越發放膽傳神的道，無所懼怕。
And many of the brethren in the Lord, waxing confident by my bonds, are much more bold to speak the word without fear.

1:15    有的傳基督，是出於嫉妒分爭。也有的是出於好意。
Some indeed preach Christ even of envy and strife; and some also of good will:

1:16    這一等是出於愛心，知道我是為辯明福音設立的。
The one preach Christ of contention, not sincerely, supposing to add affliction to my bonds:

1:17    那一等傳基督是出於結黨，並不誠實，意思要加增我捆鎖的苦楚。
But the other of love, knowing that I am set for the defence of the gospel.

1:18    這有何防呢。或是假意，或是真心，無論怎樣，基督究竟被傳開了。為此我就歡喜，並且還要歡喜。
What then? notwithstanding, every way, whether in pretence, or in truth, Christ is preached; and I therein do rejoice, yea, and will rejoice.

1:19    因為我知道這事藉著你們的祈禱，和耶穌基督之靈的幫助，終必叫我得救。
For I know that this shall turn to my salvation through your prayer, and the supply of the Spirit of Jesus Christ,

1:20    照著我所切慕所盼望的，沒有一事教我羞愧，只要凡事放膽。無論是生，是死，總叫基督在我身上照常顯大。
According to my earnest expectation and my hope, that in nothing I shall be ashamed, but that with all boldness, as always, so now also Christ shall be magnified in my body, whether it be by life, or by death.

1:21    因我活著就是基督，我死了就有益處。
For to me to live is Christ, and to die is gain.

1:22    但我在肉身活著，若成就我工夫的果子，我就不知道該挑選什麼。
But if I live in the flesh, this is the fruit of my labour: yet what I shall choose I wot not.

1:23    我正在兩難之間，情願離世與基督同在。因為這是好得無比的。
For I am in a strait betwixt two, having a desire to depart, and to be with Christ; which is far better:

1:24    然而我在肉身活著，為你們更是要緊的。
Nevertheless to abide in the flesh is more needful for you.

1:25    我既然這樣深信，就知道仍要住在世間，且與你們眾人同住，使你們腓01：25）在所信的道上。又長進又喜樂。
And having this confidence, I know that I shall abide and continue with you all for your furtherance and joy of faith;

1:26    叫你們在基督耶穌裡的歡樂，因我再到你們那裡去，就越發加增。
That your rejoicing may be more abundant in Jesus Christ for me by my coming to you again.

1:27    只要你們行事為人與基督的福音相稱。叫我或來見你們，或不在你們那裡，可以聽見你們的景況，知道你們同有一個心志，站立得穩，為所信的福音齊心努力。
Only let your conversation be as it becometh the gospel of Christ: that whether I come and see you, or else be absent, I may hear of your affairs, that ye stand fast in one spirit, with one mind striving together for the faith of the gospel;

1:28    凡事不怕敵人的驚嚇。這是證明他們沉淪，你們得救，都是出於神。
And in nothing terrified by your adversaries: which is to them an evident token of perdition, but to you of salvation, and that of God.

1:29    因為你們蒙恩，不但得以信服基督，並要為他受苦。
For unto you it is given in the behalf of Christ, not only to believe on him, but also to suffer for his sake;

1:30    你們的爭戰，就與你們在我身上從前所看見，現在所聽見的一樣。
Having the same conflict which ye saw in me, and now hear to be in me.

新約 -- 腓立比書(Philippians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　　


2:1    所以在基督裡若有什麼勸勉，愛心有什麼安慰，聖靈有什麼交通，心中有什麼慈悲憐憫，
If there be therefore any consolation in Christ, if any comfort of love, if any fellowship of the Spirit, if any bowels and mercies,

2:2    你們就要意念相同，愛心相同，有一樣的心思，有一樣的意念，使我們的喜樂可以滿足。
Fulfil ye my joy, that ye be likeminded, having the same love, being of one accord, of one mind.

2:3    凡事不可結黨，不可貪圖虛浮的榮耀。只要存心謙卑，各人看別人比自己強。
Let nothing be done through strife or vainglory; but in lowliness of mind let each esteem other better than themselves.

2:4    各人不要單顧自己的事，也要顧別人的事。
Look not every man on his own things, but every man also on the things of others.

2:5    你們當以基督耶穌的心為心。
Let this mind be in you, which was also in Christ Jesus:

2:6    他本有神的行像，不以自己與神同等為強奪的。
Who, being in the form of God, thought it not robbery to be equal with God:

2:7    凡倒虛己，取了奴僕的形像，成為人的樣式。
But made himself of no reputation, and took upon him the form of a servant, and was made in the likeness of men:

2:8    既有人的樣子，就自己卑微，存心順服，以至於死，且死在十字架上。
And being found in fashion as a man, he humbled himself, and became obedient unto death, even the death of the cross.

2:9    所以神將他升為至高，又賜給他那超乎萬名之上的名，
Wherefore God also hath highly exalted him, and given him a name which is above every name:

2:10    叫一切在天上的，地上的，和地底下的，因耶穌的名，無不屈膝，
That at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, of things in heaven, and things in earth, and things under the earth;

2:11    無不口稱耶穌基督為主，使榮耀歸與父神。
And that every tongue should confess that Jesus Christ is Lord, to the glory of God the Father.

2:12    這樣看來，我親愛的弟兄你們既是常順服的，不但我在你們那裡，就是我如今不在你們那裡，更是順服的，就當恐懼戰兢，作成你們得救的工夫。
Wherefore, my beloved, as ye have always obeyed, not as in my presence only, but now much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling.

2:13    因為你們立志行事，都是神在你們心裡執行，為要成就他的美意。
For it is God which worketh in you both to will and to do of his good pleasure.

2:14    凡所行的，都不要發怨言，起爭論，
Do all things without murmurings and disputings:

2:15    使你們無可指摘，誠實無偽，在這彎曲悖謬的世代，作神無瑕無疵的兒女。你們顯在這世代中，好像明光照耀，
That ye may be blameless and harmless, the sons of God, without rebuke, in the midst of a crooked and perverse nation, among whom ye shine as lights in the world;

2:16    將生命的道表明出來，叫我在基督的日子，好誇我沒有空跑，也沒有徒勞。
Holding forth the word of life; that I may rejoice in the day of Christ, that I have not run in vain, neither laboured in vain.

2:17    我以你們的信心為供獻的祭物。我若被澆奠在其上，也是喜樂，並且與你們眾人一同喜樂。
Yea, and if I be offered upon the sacrifice and service of your faith, I joy, and rejoice with you all.

2:18    你們也要照樣喜樂，並且與我一同喜樂。
For the same cause also do ye joy, and rejoice with me.

2:19    我靠主耶穌指望快打發提摩太去見你們，叫我知道你們的事，心裡就得著安慰。
But I trust in the Lord Jesus to send Timotheus shortly unto you, that I also may be of good comfort, when I know your state.

2:20    因為我沒有別人與我同心，實在掛念你們的事。
For I have no man likeminded, who will naturally care for your state.

2:21    別人都求自己的事，並不求耶穌基督的事。
For all seek their own, not the things which are Jesus Christ's.

2:22    但你們知道提摩太的明證，他興旺福音與我同勞，待我像兒子待父親一樣。
But ye know the proof of him, that, as a son with the father, he hath served with me in the gospel.

2:23    所以我一看出我的事要怎樣了結，就盼望立刻打發他去。
Him therefore I hope to send presently, so soon as I shall see how it will go with me.

2:24    但我靠著主，自信我也必快去。
But I trust in the Lord that I also myself shall come shortly.

2:25    然而我想必須打發以巴弗提到你們那裡去。他是我的兄弟，與我一同作工，一同當兵，是你們所差遣的，也是供給我需用的。
Yet I supposed it necessary to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother, and companion in labour, and fellowsoldier, but your messenger, and he that ministered to my wants.

2:26    他很想念你們眾人，並且極其難過，因為你們聽見他病了。
For he longed after you all, and was full of heaviness, because that ye had heard that he had been sick.

2:27    他實在是病了，幾乎要死。然而神憐憫他，不但憐憫他，也憐憫我，免得我憂上加憂。
For indeed he was sick nigh unto death: but God had mercy on him; and not on him only, but on me also, lest I should have sorrow upon sorrow.

2:28    所以我越發急速打發他去，叫你們再見他，就可以喜樂，我也可以少些憂愁。
I sent him therefore the more carefully, that, when ye see him again, ye may rejoice, and that I may be the less sorrowful.

2:29    故此你們要在主裡歡歡樂樂的接待他。而且要尊重這樣的人。
Receive him therefore in the Lord with all gladness; and hold such in reputation:

2:30    因他為作基督的工夫，幾乎至死，不顧性命，要補足你們供給我不及之處。
Because for the work of Christ he was nigh unto death, not regarding his life, to supply your lack of service toward me.

新約 -- 腓立比書(Philippians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　　


3:1    弟兄們，我還有話說，你們要靠主喜樂。我把這話再寫給你們，於我並不為難，於你們卻是妥當。
Finally, my brethren, rejoice in the Lord. To write the same things to you, to me indeed is not grievous, but for you it is safe.

3:2    應當防備犬類，防備作惡的，防備妄自行割的。
Beware of dogs, beware of evil workers, beware of the concision.

3:3    因為真受割禮的，乃是我們這以神的靈敬拜，在基督耶穌裡誇口，不靠著肉體的。
For we are the circumcision, which worship God in the spirit, and rejoice in Christ Jesus, and have no confidence in the flesh.

3:4    其實我也可以靠肉體。若是別人想他可以靠肉體，我更可以靠著了。
Though I might also have confidence in the flesh. If any other man thinketh that he hath whereof he might trust in the flesh, I more:

3:5    我第八天受割禮，我是以色列族，便雅憫支派的人，是希伯來人所生的希伯來人。就律法說，我是法利賽人。
Circumcised the eighth day, of the stock of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, an Hebrew of the Hebrews; as touching the law, a Pharisee;

3:6    就熱心說，我是逼迫教會的。就律法上的義說，我是無可指摘的。
Concerning zeal, persecuting the church; touching the righteousness which is in the law, blameless.

3:7    只是我先前以為與我有益的，我現在因基督都當作有損的。
But what things were gain to me, those I counted loss for Christ.

3:8    不但如此，我也將萬事都當有損的，因我以認識我主基督耶穌為至寶。
Yea doubtless, and I count all things but loss for the excellency of the knowledge of Christ Jesus my Lord: for whom I have suffered the loss of all things, and do count them but dung, that I may win Christ,

3:9    我為他已經丟棄萬事，看作糞土，為要得著基督。並且得以在他裡面，不是有自己因律法而得的義，乃是有信基督的義，就是因信神而來的義。
And be found in him, not having mine own righteousness, which is of the law, but that which is through the faith of Christ, the righteousness which is of God by faith:

3:10    使我認識基督，曉得他復活的大能，並且曉得和他一同受苦，效法他的死。
That I may know him, and the power of his resurrection, and the fellowship of his sufferings, being made conformable unto his death;

3:11    或者我也得以從死裡復活。
If by any means I might attain unto the resurrection of the dead.

3:12    這不是說，我已經得著了，已經完全了。我乃是竭力追求，或者可以得著基督耶穌所以得著我的。（所以得著我的或作所要我得的）
Not as though I had already attained, either were already perfect: but I follow after, if that I may apprehend that for which also I am apprehended of Christ Jesus.

3:13    弟兄們，我不是以為自己已經得著了。我只有一件事，就是忘記背後努力面前的，
Brethren, I count not myself to have apprehended: but this one thing I do, forgetting those things which are behind, and reaching forth unto those things which are before,

3:14    向著標竿直跑，要得神在基督耶穌裡從上面召我來得的獎賞。
I press toward the mark for the prize of the high calling of God in Christ Jesus.

3:15    所以我們中間凡是完全人，總要存這樣的心。若在什麼事上，存別樣的心，神也必以此指示你們。
Let us therefore, as many as be perfect, be thus minded: and if in any thing ye be otherwise minded, God shall reveal even this unto you.

3:16    然而我們到了什麼地步，就當照著什麼地步行。
Nevertheless, whereto we have already attained, let us walk by the same rule, let us mind the same thing.

3:17    弟兄們，你們要一同效法我，也當留意看那些照我們榜樣行的人。
Brethren, be followers together of me, and mark them which walk so as ye have us for an ensample.

3:18    因為有許多人行事，是基督十字架的仇敵。我屢次告訴你們，現在又流淚的告訴你們。
(For many walk, of whom I have told you often, and now tell you even weeping, that they are the enemies of the cross of Christ:

3:19    他們的結局就是沉淪，他們的神就是自己的肚腹，他們以自己的羞辱為榮耀，專以地上的事為念。
Whose end is destruction, whose God is their belly, and whose glory is in their shame, who mind earthly things.)

3:20    我們卻是天上的國民。並且等候救主，就是主耶穌基督，從天上降臨。
For our conversation is in heaven; from whence also we look for the Saviour, the Lord Jesus Christ:

3:21    他要按著那能叫萬有歸服自己的大能，將我們這卑賤的身體改變形狀，和他自己榮耀的身體相似。
Who shall change our vile body, that it may be fashioned like unto his glorious body, according to the working whereby he is able even to subdue all things unto himself.

新約 -- 腓立比書(Philippians) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


4:1    我所親愛所想念的弟兄們，你們就是我的喜樂，我的冠冕。我親愛的弟兄，你們應當靠主站立得穩。
Therefore, my brethren dearly beloved and longed for, my joy and crown, so stand fast in the Lord, my dearly beloved.

4:2    我勸友阿爹和循都基，要在主裡同心。
I beseech Euodias, and beseech Syntyche, that they be of the same mind in the Lord.

4:3    我也求你這真實同負一軛的，幫助這兩個女人，因為他們在福音上曾與我一同勞苦。還有革利免，並其餘和我一同作工的。他們的名字都在生命冊上。
And I intreat thee also, true yokefellow, help those women which laboured with me in the gospel, with Clement also, and with other my fellowlabourers, whose names are in the book of life.

4:4    你們要靠主常常喜樂。我再說，你們要喜樂。
Rejoice in the Lord alway: and again I say, Rejoice.

4:5    當叫眾人知道你們謙讓的心。主已經近了。
Let your moderation be known unto all men. The Lord is at hand.

4:6    應當一無掛慮，只要凡事藉著禱告，祈求，和感謝，將你們所要的告訴神。
Be careful for nothing; but in every thing by prayer and supplication with thanksgiving let your requests be made known unto God.

4:7    神所賜出人意外的平安，必在基督耶穌裡，保守你們的心懷意念。
And the peace of God, which passeth all understanding, shall keep your hearts and minds through Christ Jesus.

4:8    弟兄們，我還有未盡的話。凡是真實的，可敬的，公義的，清潔的，可愛的，有美名的。若有什麼德行，若有什麼稱讚，這些事你們都要思念。
Finally, brethren, whatsoever things are true, whatsoever things are honest, whatsoever things are just, whatsoever things are pure, whatsoever things are lovely, whatsoever things are of good report; if there be any virtue, and if there be any praise, think on these things.

4:9    你們在我身上所學習的，所領受的，所聽見的，所看見的，這些事你們都要去行。賜平安的神，就必與你們同在。
Those things, which ye have both learned, and received, and heard, and seen in me, do: and the God of peace shall be with you.

4:10    我靠主大大的喜樂，因為你們思念我的心，如今又發生。你們向來就思念我，只是沒有機會。
But I rejoiced in the Lord greatly, that now at the last your care of me hath flourished again; wherein ye were also careful, but ye lacked opportunity.

4:11    我並不是因缺乏說這話，我無論在什麼景況，都可以知足，這是我已經學會了。
Not that I speak in respect of want: for I have learned, in whatsoever state I am, therewith to be content.

4:12    我知道怎樣處卑賤，也知道怎樣處豐富，或飽足，或飢餓，或有餘，或缺乏，隨事隨在，我都得了祕訣。
I know both how to be abased, and I know how to abound: every where and in all things I am instructed both to be full and to be hungry, both to abound and to suffer need.

4:13    我靠著那加給我力量的，凡事都能作。
I can do all things through Christ which strengtheneth me.

4:14    然而你們和我同受患難，原是美事。
Notwithstanding ye have well done, that ye did communicate with my affliction.

4:15    腓立比人哪，你們也知道我初傳福音，離了馬其頓的時候，論到授受的事，除了你們以外，並沒有別的教會供給我。
Now ye Philippians know also, that in the beginning of the gospel, when I departed from Macedonia, no church communicated with me as concerning giving and receiving, but ye only.

4:16    就是我在帖撒羅尼迦，你們也一次兩次的，打發人供給我的需用。
For even in Thessalonica ye sent once and again unto my necessity.

4:17    我並不求什麼饋送，所求的就是你們的果子漸漸增多，歸在你們的賬上。
Not because I desire a gift: but I desire fruit that may abound to your account.

4:18    但我樣樣都有，並且有餘。我已經充足，因我從以巴弗提受了你們的饋送，當作極美的香氣，為神所收納所喜悅的祭物。
But I have all, and abound: I am full, having received of Epaphroditus the things which were sent from you, an odour of a sweet smell, a sacrifice acceptable, wellpleasing to God.

4:19    我的神必照他榮耀的豐富，在基督耶穌裡，使你們一切所需用的都充足。
But my God shall supply all your need according to his riches in glory by Christ Jesus.

4:20    願榮耀歸給我們的父神，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
Now unto God and our Father be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

4:21    請問在基督耶穌裡的各位聖徒安。在我這裡的眾弟兄都問你們安。
Salute every saint in Christ Jesus. The brethren which are with me greet you.

4:22    眾聖徒都問你們安。在凱撒家裡的人特特的問你們安。
All the saints salute you, chiefly they that are of Caesar's household.

4:23    願主耶穌基督的恩常在你們心裡。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.

