

新約 -- 歌羅西書(Colossians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


1:1    奉神旨意，作基督耶穌使徒的保羅，和兄弟提摩太，
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, and Timotheus our brother,

1:2    寫信給歌羅西的聖徒，在基督裡有忠心的弟兄。願恩惠平安，從神我們的父，歸與你們。
To the saints and faithful brethren in Christ which are at Colosse: Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3    我們感謝神我們主耶穌基督的父，常常為你們禱告。
We give thanks to God and the Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, praying always for you,

1:4    因聽見你們在基督耶穌裡的信心，並向眾聖徒的愛心。
Since we heard of your faith in Christ Jesus, and of the love which ye have to all the saints,

1:5    是為那給你們存在天上的盼望。這盼望就是你們從前在福音真理的道上所聽見的。
For the hope which is laid up for you in heaven, whereof ye heard before in the word of the truth of the gospel;

1:6    這福音傳到你們那裡，也傳到普天之下，並且結果增長，如同在你們中間，自從你們聽見福音，真知道神恩惠的日子一樣。
Which is come unto you, as it is in all the world; and bringeth forth fruit, as it doth also in you, since the day ye heard of it, and knew the grace of God in truth:

1:7    正如你們從我們所親愛，一同作僕人的以巴弗所學的。他為我們（有古卷你們）作了基督忠心的執事。
As ye also learned of Epaphras our dear fellowservant, who is for you a faithful minister of Christ;

1:8    也把你們因聖靈所存的愛心告訴了我們。
Who also declared unto us your love in the Spirit.

1:9    因此，我們自從聽見的日子，也就為你們不住的禱告祈求，願你們在一切屬靈的智慧悟性上，滿心知道神的旨意。
For this cause we also, since the day we heard it, do not cease to pray for you, and to desire that ye might be filled with the knowledge of his will in all wisdom and spiritual understanding;

1:10    好叫你們行事為人對得起主，凡事蒙他喜悅，在一切善事上結果子，漸漸的多知道神。
That ye might walk worthy of the Lord unto all pleasing, being fruitful in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God;

1:11    照他榮耀的權能，得以在各樣的力上加力，好叫你們凡事歡歡喜喜的忍耐寬容。
Strengthened with all might, according to his glorious power, unto all patience and longsuffering with joyfulness;

1:12    又感謝父，叫我們能與眾聖徒在光明中同得基業。
Giving thanks unto the Father, which hath made us meet to be partakers of the inheritance of the saints in light:

1:13    他救了我們脫離黑暗的權勢，把我們遷到他愛子的國裡。
Who hath delivered us from the power of darkness, and hath translated us into the kingdom of his dear Son:

1:14    我們在愛子裡得蒙救贖，罪過得以赦免。
In whom we have redemption through his blood, even the forgiveness of sins:

1:15    愛子是那不能看見之神的像，是首生的，在一切被造的以先。
Who is the image of the invisible God, the firstborn of every creature:

1:16    因為萬有都是靠他造的，無論是天上的，地上的，能看見的，不能看見的，或是有位的，主治的，執政的，掌權的，一概都是藉著他造的，又是為他造的。
For by him were all things created, that are in heaven, and that are in earth, visible and invisible, whether they be thrones, or dominions, or principalities, or powers: all things were created by him, and for him:

1:17    他在萬有之先，萬有也靠他而立。
And he is before all things, and by him all things consist.

1:18    他也是教會全體之首。他是元始，是從死裡首先復生的，使他可已在凡事上居首位。
And he is the head of the body, the church: who is the beginning, the firstborn from the dead; that in all things he might have the preeminence.

1:19    因為父喜歡叫一切的豐盛，在他裡面居住。
For it pleased the Father that in him should all fulness dwell;

1:20    既然藉著他在十字架上所流的血，成就了和平，便藉著他叫萬有，無論是地上的，天上的，都與自己和好了。
And, having made peace through the blood of his cross, by him to reconcile all things unto himself; by him, I say, whether they be things in earth, or things in heaven.

1:21    你們從前與神隔絕，因著惡行，心裡與他為敵。
And you, that were sometime alienated and enemies in your mind by wicked works, yet now hath he reconciled

1:22    但如今他藉著基督的肉身受死，叫你們與自己和好，都成了聖潔，沒有瑕疵，無可責備，把你們引到自己面前。
In the body of his flesh through death, to present you holy and unblameable and unreproveable in his sight:

1:23    只要你們在所信的道上恆心，根基穩固，堅定不移，不至被引動失去原文作離開福音的盼望。這福音就是你們所聽過的，也是傳與普天下萬人聽的。萬人原文作凡受造的我保羅也作了這福音的執事。
If ye continue in the faith grounded and settled, and be not moved away from the hope of the gospel, which ye have heard, and which was preached to every creature which is under heaven; whereof I Paul am made a minister;

1:24    現在我為你們受苦，倒覺歡樂，並且為基督的身體，就是為教會，要在我肉身上補滿基督患難的缺欠。
Who now rejoice in my sufferings for you, and fill up that which is behind of the afflictions of Christ in my flesh for his body's sake, which is the church:

1:25    我照神為你們所賜我的職分，作了教會的執事，要把神的道理傳得全備。
Whereof I am made a minister, according to the dispensation of God which is given to me for you, to fulfil the word of God;

1:26    這道理就是歷世歷代所隱藏的奧祕，但如今向他的聖徒顯明瞭。
Even the mystery which hath been hid from ages and from generations, but now is made manifest to his saints:

1:27    神願意叫他們知道，這奧祕在外邦人中有何等豐盛的榮耀。就是基督在你們心裡成了有榮耀的盼望。
To whom God would make known what is the riches of the glory of this mystery among the Gentiles; which is Christ in you, the hope of glory:

1:28    我們傳揚他，是用諸般的智慧，勸戒各人，教導各人。要把各人在基督裡完完全全的引到神面前。
Whom we preach, warning every man, and teaching every man in all wisdom; that we may present every man perfect in Christ Jesus:

1:29    我也為此勞苦，照著他在我裡面運用的大能，盡心竭力。
Whereunto I also labour, striving according to his working, which worketh in me mightily.



新約 -- 歌羅西書(Colossians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　　


2:1    我願意你們曉得我為你們和老底嘉人，並一切沒有與我親自見面的人，是何等的盡心竭力。
For I would that ye knew what great conflict I have for you, and for them at Laodicea, and for as many as have not seen my face in the flesh;

2:2    要叫他們的心得安慰，因愛心互相聯絡，以致豐豐足足在悟性中有充足的信心，使他們真知道神的奧祕，就是基督。
That their hearts might be comforted, being knit together in love, and unto all riches of the full assurance of understanding, to the acknowledgement of the mystery of God, and of the Father, and of Christ;

2:3    所積蓄的一切智慧知識，都在他裡面藏著。
In whom are hid all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge.

2:4    我說這話，免得有人用花言巧語迷惑你們。
And this I say, lest any man should beguile you with enticing words.

2:5    我身子雖與你們相離，心卻與你們同在，見你們循規蹈矩，信基督的心也堅固，我就歡喜了。
For though I be absent in the flesh, yet am I with you in the spirit, joying and beholding your order, and the stedfastness of your faith in Christ.

2:6    你們既然接受了主基督耶穌，就當遵他而行。
As ye have therefore received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk ye in him:

2:7    在他裡面生根建造，信心堅固，正如你們所領的教訓，感謝的心也更增長了。
Rooted and built up in him, and stablished in the faith, as ye have been taught, abounding therein with thanksgiving.

2:8    你們要謹慎，恐怕有人用他的理學，和虛空的妄言，不照著基督，乃照人間的遺傳，和世上的小學，就把你們擄去。
Beware lest any man spoil you through philosophy and vain deceit, after the tradition of men, after the rudiments of the world, and not after Christ.

2:9    因為神本性一切的豐盛，都有形有體的居住在基督裡面。
For in him dwelleth all the fulness of the Godhead bodily.

2:10    你們在他裡面也得了豐盛。他是各樣執政掌權者的元首。
And ye are complete in him, which is the head of all principality and power:

2:11    你們在他裡面，也受了不是人手所行的割禮，乃是基督使你們脫去肉體情慾的割禮。
In whom also ye are circumcised with the circumcision made without hands, in putting off the body of the sins of the flesh by the circumcision of Christ:

2:12    你們既受洗與他一同埋葬，也就在此與他一同復活。都因信那叫他從死裡復活神的功用
Buried with him in baptism, wherein also ye are risen with him through the faith of the operation of God, who hath raised him from the dead.

2:13    你們從前在過犯，和未受割禮的肉體中死了，神赦免了你們（或作我們）一切過犯，便叫你們與基督一同活過來。
And you, being dead in your sins and the uncircumcision of your flesh, hath he quickened together with him, having forgiven you all trespasses;

2:14    又塗抹了在律例上所寫，攻擊我們有礙於我們的字據，把他撤去，釘在十字架上。
Blotting out the handwriting of ordinances that was against us, which was contrary to us, and took it out of the way, nailing it to his cross;

2:15    既將一切執政的掌權的擄來，明顯給眾人看，就仗著十字架誇勝。
And having spoiled principalities and powers, he made a shew of them openly, triumphing over them in it.

2:16    所以不拘在飲食上，或節期，月朔，安息日，都不可讓人論斷你們。
Let no man therefore judge you in meat, or in drink, or in respect of an holyday, or of the new moon, or of the sabbath days:

2:17    這些原是後事的影兒。那形體卻是基督。
Which are a shadow of things to come; but the body is of Christ.

2:18    不可讓人因著故意謙虛，和敬拜天使，就奪去你們的獎賞。這等人拘泥在所見過的，（有古卷作這等人窺察所沒有見過的）隨著自己的欲心，無故的自高自大，
Let no man beguile you of your reward in a voluntary humility and worshipping of angels, intruding into those things which he hath not seen, vainly puffed up by his fleshly mind,

2:19    不持定元首，全身既然靠著他筋節得以相助聯絡，就因神大得長進。
And not holding the Head, from which all the body by joints and bands having nourishment ministered, and knit together, increaseth with the increase of God.

2:20    你們若是與基督同死，脫離了世上的小學，為什麼仍像在世俗中活著，
Wherefore if ye be dead with Christ from the rudiments of the world, why, as though living in the world, are ye subject to ordinances,

2:21    服從那不可拿，不可嘗，不可摸，等類的規條呢。
(Touch not; taste not; handle not;

2:22    這都是照人所吩咐所教導的。說到這一切正用的時候就都敗壞了。
Which all are to perish with the using;) after the commandments and doctrines of men?

2:23    這些規條，使人徒有智慧之名，用私意崇拜，自表謙卑，苦待己身，其實在剋制肉體的情慾上，是毫無功效。
Which things have indeed a shew of wisdom in will worship, and humility, and neglecting of the body; not in any honour to the satisfying of the flesh.



新約 -- 歌羅西書(Colossians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　　


3:1    所以你們若真與基督一同復活，就當求在上面的事。那裡有基督坐在神的右邊。
If ye then be risen with Christ, seek those things which are above, where Christ sitteth on the right hand of God.

3:2    你們要思念上面的事，不要思念地上的事。
Set your affection on things above, not on things on the earth.

3:3    因為你們已經死了，你們的生命與基督一同藏在神裡面。
For ye are dead, and your life is hid with Christ in God.

3:4    基督是我們的生命，他顯現的時候，你們也要與他一同顯現在榮耀裡。
When Christ, who is our life, shall appear, then shall ye also appear with him in glory.

3:5    所以要治死你們在地上的肢體。就如淫亂，汙穢，邪情，惡欲，和貪婪，貪婪就與拜偶像一樣。
Mortify therefore your members which are upon the earth; fornication, uncleanness, inordinate affection, evil concupiscence, and covetousness, which is idolatry:

3:6    因這些事，神的忿怒必臨到那悖逆之子。
For which things' sake the wrath of God cometh on the children of disobedience:

3:7    當你們在這些事中活著的時候，也曾這樣行過。
In the which ye also walked some time, when ye lived in them.

3:8    但現在你們要棄絕這一切的事，以及惱恨，忿怒，惡毒，（或作陰毒）毀謗，並口中汙穢的言語。
But now ye also put off all these; anger, wrath, malice, blasphemy, filthy communication out of your mouth.

3:9    不要彼此說謊，因你們已經脫去舊人和舊人的行為，
Lie not one to another, seeing that ye have put off the old man with his deeds;

3:10    穿上了新人。這新人在知識上漸漸更新，正如造他主的形像。
And have put on the new man, which is renewed in knowledge after the image of him that created him:

3:11    在此並不分希臘人，猶太人，受割禮的，未受割禮的，化外人，西古提人，為奴的，自主的，惟有基督是包括一切，又住在各人之內。
Where there is neither Greek nor Jew, circumcision nor uncircumcision, Barbarian, Scythian, bond nor free: but Christ is all, and in all.

3:12    所以你們既是神的選民，聖潔蒙愛的人，就要存（原文作穿下同）憐憫，恩慈，謙虛，溫柔，忍耐的心。
Put on therefore, as the elect of God, holy and beloved, bowels of mercies, kindness, humbleness of mind, meekness, longsuffering;

3:13    倘若這人與那人有嫌隙，總要彼此包容，彼此饒恕。主怎樣饒恕了你們，你們也要怎樣饒恕人。
Forbearing one another, and forgiving one another, if any man have a quarrel against any: even as Christ forgave you, so also do ye.

3:14    在這一切之外，要存著愛心。愛心就是聯絡全德的。
And above all these things put on charity, which is the bond of perfectness.

3:15    又要叫基督的平安在你們心裡作主。你們也為此蒙召，歸為一體。且要存感謝的心。
And let the peace of God rule in your hearts, to the which also ye are called in one body; and be ye thankful.

3:16    當用各樣的智慧，把基督的道里，豐豐富富的存在心裡，（或作當把基督的道里豐豐富富的存在心裡以各樣的智慧）用詩章，頌詞，靈歌，彼此教導，互相勸戒，心被恩感歌頌神。
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly in all wisdom; teaching and admonishing one another in psalms and hymns and spiritual songs, singing with grace in your hearts to the Lord.

3:17    無論作什麼，或說話，或行事，都要奉主耶穌的名，藉著他感謝父神。
And whatsoever ye do in word or deed, do all in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God and the Father by him.

3:18    你們作妻子的，當順服自己的丈夫，這在主裡面是相宜的。
Wives, submit yourselves unto your own husbands, as it is fit in the Lord.

3:19    你們作丈夫的，要愛你們的妻子，不可苦待他們。
Husbands, love your wives, and be not bitter against them.

3:20    你們作兒女的，要凡事聽從父母，因為這是主所喜悅的。
Children, obey your parents in all things: for this is well pleasing unto the Lord.

3:21    你們作父親的，不要惹兒女的氣，恐怕他們失去志氣。
Fathers, provoke not your children to anger, lest they be discouraged.

3:22    你們作僕人的，要凡事聽從你們肉身的主人，不要只在眼前事奉，像是討人喜歡的，總要存心誠實敬畏主。
Servants, obey in all things your masters according to the flesh; not with eyeservice, as menpleasers; but in singleness of heart, fearing God:

3:23    無論作什麼，都要從心裡作，像是給主作的，不是給人作的。
And whatsoever ye do, do it heartily, as to the Lord, and not unto men;

3:24    因你們知道從主那裡，必得著基業為賞賜。你們所事奉的乃是主基督。
Knowing that of the Lord ye shall receive the reward of the inheritance: for ye serve the Lord Christ.

3:25    那行不義的，必受不義的報應。主不偏待人。
But he that doeth wrong shall receive for the wrong which he hath done: and there is no respect of persons.



新約 -- 歌羅西書(Colossians) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


4:1    你們作主人的，要公公平平的待僕人，因為知道你們也有一位主在天上。
Masters, give unto your servants that which is just and equal; knowing that ye also have a Master in heaven.

4:2    你們要恆切禱告，在此儆醒感恩。
Continue in prayer, and watch in the same with thanksgiving;

4:3    也要為我們禱告，求神給我們開傳道的門，能以講基督的奧祕，（我為此被捆鎖）。
Withal praying also for us, that God would open unto us a door of utterance, to speak the mystery of Christ, for which I am also in bonds:

4:4    叫我按著所該說的話，將這奧祕發明出來。
That I may make it manifest, as I ought to speak.

4:5    你們要愛惜光陰，用智慧與外人交往。
Walk in wisdom toward them that are without, redeeming the time.

4:6    你們的言語要常常帶著和氣，好像用鹽調和，就可知道該怎樣回答各人。
Let your speech be alway with grace, seasoned with salt, that ye may know how ye ought to answer every man.

4:7    有我親愛的兄弟推基古要將我一切的事都告訴你們。他是忠心的執事，和我一同作主的僕人。
All my state shall Tychicus declare unto you, who is a beloved brother, and a faithful minister and fellowservant in the Lord:

4:8    我特意打發他到你們那裡去，好叫你們知道我們的光景，又叫他安慰你們的心。
Whom I have sent unto you for the same purpose, that he might know your estate, and comfort your hearts;

4:9    我又打發一位親愛忠心的兄弟阿尼西母同去。他也是你們那裡的人。他們要把這裡一切的事都告訴你們。
With Onesimus, a faithful and beloved brother, who is one of you. They shall make known unto you all things which are done here.

4:10    與我一同坐監的亞里達古問你們安。巴拿巴的表弟馬可也問你們安。（說到這馬可，你們已經受了吩咐。他若到了你們那裡，你們就接待他
Aristarchus my fellowprisoner saluteth you, and Marcus, sister's son to Barnabas, (touching whom ye received commandments: if he come unto you, receive him;)

4:11    耶數又稱猶士都，也問你們安。奉割裡的人中，只有這三個人，是為神的國與我一同作工的。也是叫我心裡得安慰的。
And Jesus, which is called Justus, who are of the circumcision. These only are my fellowworkers unto the kingdom of God, which have been a comfort unto me.

4:12    有你們那裡的人，作基督耶穌僕人的以巴弗問你們安。他在禱告之間，常為你們竭力的祈求，願你們在神一切的旨意上，得以完全。信心充足，能站立得穩。
Epaphras, who is one of you, a servant of Christ, saluteth you, always labouring fervently for you in prayers, that ye may stand perfect and complete in all the will of God.

4:13    他為你們和老底嘉並希拉波立的弟兄，多多的勞苦。這是我可以給他作見證的。
For I bear him record, that he hath a great zeal for you, and them that are in Laodicea, and them in Hierapolis.

4:14    所親愛的醫生路加，和底馬問你們安。
Luke, the beloved physician, and Demas, greet you.

4:15    請問老底嘉的弟兄和寧法，並他家裡的教會安。
Salute the brethren which are in Laodicea, and Nymphas, and the church which is in his house.

4:16    你們唸了這書信，便交給老底嘉的教會，叫他們也念。你們也要念從老底嘉來的書信。
And when this epistle is read among you, cause that it be read also in the church of the Laodiceans; and that ye likewise read the epistle from Laodicea.

4:17    要對亞基布說，務要謹慎，盡你從主所受的職分。
And say to Archippus, Take heed to the ministry which thou hast received in the Lord, that thou fulfil it.

4:18    我保羅親筆問你們安。你們要記念我的捆鎖。願恩惠常與你們同在。
The salutation by the hand of me Paul. Remember my bonds. Grace be with you. Amen.

