
新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦前書(1 Thessalonians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


1:1    保羅，西拉，提摩太，寫信給帖撒羅尼迦在父神和主耶穌基督裡的教會。願恩惠平安歸與你們。
Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the Thessalonians which is in God the Father and in the Lord Jesus Christ: Grace be unto you, and peace, from God our Father, and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:2    我們為你們眾人常常感謝神，禱告的時候題到你們。
We give thanks to God always for you all, making mention of you in our prayers;

1:3    在神我們的父面前，不住的記念你們因信心所作的工夫，因愛心所受的勞苦，因盼望我們主耶穌基督所存的忍耐。
Remembering without ceasing your work of faith, and labour of love, and patience of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ, in the sight of God and our Father;

1:4    被神所愛的弟兄阿，我知道你們是蒙揀選的。
Knowing, brethren beloved, your election of God.

1:5    因為我們的福音傳到你們那裡，不獨在乎言語，也在乎權能和聖靈，並充足的信心，正如你們知道我們在你們那裡，為你們的緣故是怎樣為人。
For our gospel came not unto you in word only, but also in power, and in the Holy Ghost, and in much assurance; as ye know what manner of men we were among you for your sake.

1:6    並且你們在大難之中，蒙了聖靈所賜的喜樂，領受真道，就效法我們，也效法了主。
And ye became followers of us, and of the Lord, having received the word in much affliction, with joy of the Holy Ghost:

1:7    甚至你們作了馬其頓和亞該亞，所有信主之人的榜樣。
So that ye were ensamples to all that believe in Macedonia and Achaia.

1:8    因為主的道從你們那裡已經傳楊出來，你們向神的信心不但在馬其頓和亞該亞，就是在各處，也都傳開了。所以不用我們說什麼話。
For from you sounded out the word of the Lord not only in Macedonia and Achaia, but also in every place your faith to God-ward is spread abroad; so that we need not to speak any thing.

1:9    因為他們自己已經報明我們是怎樣進到你們那裡，你們是怎樣離棄偶像歸向神，要服事那又真又活的神，
For they themselves shew of us what manner of entering in we had unto you, and how ye turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God;

1:10    等候他兒子從天降臨，就是他從死裡復活的，那位救我們脫離將來忿怒的耶穌。
And to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, even Jesus, which delivered us from the wrath to come.




新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦前書(1 Thessalonians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


2:1    弟兄們，你們自己原曉得我們進到你們那裡，並不是徒然的。
For yourselves, brethren, know our entrance in unto you, that it was not in vain:

2:2    我們從前在腓立比被害受辱，這是你們知道的。然而還是靠我們的神放開膽量，在大爭戰中把神的福音傳給你們。
But even after that we had suffered before, and were shamefully entreated, as ye know, at Philippi, we were bold in our God to speak unto you the gospel of God with much contention.

2:3    我們的勸勉，不是出於錯誤，不是出於汙穢，也不是用詭詐。
For our exhortation was not of deceit, nor of uncleanness, nor in guile:

2:4    但神既然驗中了我們，把福音託付我們，我們就照樣講，不是要討人喜歡，乃是要討那察驗我們心的神喜歡。
But as we were allowed of God to be put in trust with the gospel, even so we speak; not as pleasing men, but God, which trieth our hearts.

2:5    因為我們從來沒有用過諂媚的話，這是你們知道的。也沒有藏著貪心，這是神可以作見證的。
For neither at any time used we flattering words, as ye know, nor a cloke of covetousness; God is witness:

2:6    我們作基督的使徒，雖然可以叫人尊重，卻沒有向你們或向別人求榮耀，
Nor of men sought we glory, neither of you, nor yet of others, when we might have been burdensome, as the apostles of Christ.

2:7    只在你們中間存心溫柔，如同母親乳養自己的孩子。
But we were gentle among you, even as a nurse cherisheth her children:

2:8    我們既是這樣愛你們，不但願意將神的福音給你們，連自己的性命也願意給你們，因你們是我們所疼愛的。
So being affectionately desirous of you, we were willing to have imparted unto you, not the gospel of God only, but also our own souls, because ye were dear unto us.

2:9    弟兄們，你們記念我們的辛苦勞碌，晝夜作工，傳神的福音給你們，免得叫你們一人受累。
For ye remember, brethren, our labour and travail: for labouring night and day, because we would not be chargeable unto any of you, we preached unto you the gospel of God.

2:10    我們向你們信主的人，是何等聖潔，公義，無可指摘，有你們作見證，也有神作見證。
Ye are witnesses, and God also, how holily and justly and unblameably we behaved ourselves among you that believe:

2:11    你們也曉得我們怎樣勸勉你們，安慰你們，囑咐你們各人，好像父親待自己的兒女一樣。
As ye know how we exhorted and comforted and charged every one of you, as a father doth his children,

2:12    要叫你們行事對得起那召你們進他國得他榮耀的神。
That ye would walk worthy of God, who hath called you unto his kingdom and glory.

2:13    為此，我們也不住的感謝神，因你們聽見我們所傳神的道，就領受了，不以為是人的道，乃以為是神的道。這道實在是神的，並且執行在你們信主的人心中。
For this cause also thank we God without ceasing, because, when ye received the word of God which ye heard of us, ye received it not as the word of men, but as it is in truth, the word of God, which effectually worketh also in you that believe.

2:14    弟兄們，你們曾效法猶太中，在基督耶穌裡神的各教會。因為你們也受了本地人的苦害，像他們受了猶太人的苦害一樣。
For ye, brethren, became followers of the churches of God which in Judaea are in Christ Jesus: for ye also have suffered like things of your own countrymen, even as they have of the Jews:

2:15    這猶太人殺了主耶穌和先知，又把我們趕出去。他們不得神的喜悅，且與眾人為敵。
Who both killed the Lord Jesus, and their own prophets, and have persecuted us; and they please not God, and are contrary to all men:

2:16    不許我們傳道給外邦人使外邦人得救，常常充滿自己的罪惡。神的忿怒臨在他們身上已經到了極處。
Forbidding us to speak to the Gentiles that they might be saved, to fill up their sins alway: for the wrath is come upon them to the uttermost.

2:17    弟兄們，我們暫時與你們離別，是面目離別，心裡卻不離別，我們極力的想法子，很願意見你們的面。
But we, brethren, being taken from you for a short time in presence, not in heart, endeavoured the more abundantly to see your face with great desire.

2:18    所以我們有意到你們那裡，我保羅有一兩次要去，只是撒但阻擋了我們。
Wherefore we would have come unto you, even I Paul, once and again; but Satan hindered us.

2:19    我們的盼望和喜樂，並所誇的冠冕，是什麼呢。豈不是我們主耶穌來的時候你們在他面前刪立得住嗎。
For what is our hope, or joy, or crown of rejoicing? Are not even ye in the presence of our Lord Jesus Christ at his coming?

2:20    因為你們就是我們的榮耀，我們的喜樂。
For ye are our glory and joy.




新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦前書(1 Thessalonians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


3:1    我們既不能再忍，就願意獨自等在雅典。
Wherefore when we could no longer forbear, we thought it good to be left at Athens alone;

3:2    打發我們的兄弟在基督福音上作神執事的提摩太前去，（作神執事的有古卷作與神同工的）堅固你們，並在你們所信的道上勸慰你們。
And sent Timotheus, our brother, and minister of God, and our fellowlabourer in the gospel of Christ, to establish you, and to comfort you concerning your faith:

3:3    免得有人被諸般患難搖動。因為你們自己知道我們受患難原是命定的。
That no man should be moved by these afflictions: for yourselves know that we are appointed thereunto.

3:4    我們在你們那裡的時候，豫先告訴你們，我們必受患難，以後果然應驗了，你們也知道。
For verily, when we were with you, we told you before that we should suffer tribulation; even as it came to pass, and ye know.

3:5    為此，我既不能再忍，就打發人去，要曉得你們的信心如何，恐怕那誘惑人的到底誘惑了你們，叫我們的勞苦歸於徒然。
For this cause, when I could no longer forbear, I sent to know your faith, lest by some means the tempter have tempted you, and our labour be in vain.

3:6    但提摩太剛才從你們那裡回來，將你們信心和愛心的好訊息報給我們，又說你們常常記念我們，切切的想見我們，如同我們想見你們一樣。
But now when Timotheus came from you unto us, and brought us good tidings of your faith and charity, and that ye have good remembrance of us always, desiring greatly to see us, as we also to see you:

3:7    所以弟兄們，我們在一切困苦患難之中，因著你們的信心就得了安慰。
Therefore, brethren, we were comforted over you in all our affliction and distress by your faith:

3:8    你們若靠主站立得穩，我們就活了。
For now we live, if ye stand fast in the Lord.

3:9    我們在神面前，因著你們甚是喜樂，為這一切喜樂，可用何等的感謝，為你們報答神呢。
For what thanks can we render to God again for you, for all the joy wherewith we joy for your sakes before our God;



3:10    我們晝夜切切的祈求，要見你們的面，補滿你們信心的不足。
Night and day praying exceedingly that we might see your face, and might perfect that which is lacking in your faith?

3:11    願神我們的父，和我們的主耶穌，一直引領我們到你們那裡去。
Now God himself and our Father, and our Lord Jesus Christ, direct our way unto you.

3:12    又願主叫你們彼此相愛的心，並愛眾人的心，都能增長，充足，如同我們愛你們一樣。
And the Lord make you to increase and abound in love one toward another, and toward all men, even as we do toward you:

3:13    好使你們，當我們主耶穌同他眾聖徒來的時候，在我們父神面前，心裡堅固，成為聖潔，無可責備。
To the end he may stablish your hearts unblameable in holiness before God, even our Father, at the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ with all his saints.




新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦前書(1 Thessalonians) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


4:1    弟兄們，我還有話說。我們靠著主耶穌求你們，勸你們，你們既然受了我們的教訓，知道該怎樣行，可以討神的喜悅，就要照你們現在所行的，更加勉勵。
Furthermore then we beseech you, brethren, and exhort you by the Lord Jesus, that as ye have received of us how ye ought to walk and to please God, so ye would abound more and more.

4:2    你們原曉得我們憑主耶穌傳給你們什麼命令。
For ye know what commandments we gave you by the Lord Jesus.

4:3    神的旨意就是要你們成為聖潔，遠避淫行。
For this is the will of God, even your sanctification, that ye should abstain from fornication:

4:4    要你們各人曉得怎樣用聖潔尊貴，守著自己的身體。
That every one of you should know how to possess his vessel in sanctification and honour;

4:5    不放縱私慾的邪情，像那不認識神的外邦人。
Not in the lust of concupiscence, even as the Gentiles which know not God:

4:6    不要一個人在這事上越分，欺負他的弟兄。因為這一類的事，主必報應，正如我豫先對你們說過，又切切囑咐你們的。
That no man go beyond and defraud his brother in any matter: because that the Lord is the avenger of all such, as we also have forewarned you and testified.

4:7    神召我們，本不是要我們沾染汙穢，乃是要我們成為聖潔。
For God hath not called us unto uncleanness, but unto holiness.

4:8    所以那棄絕的，不是棄絕人，乃是棄絕那賜聖靈給你們的神。
He therefore that despiseth, despiseth not man, but God, who hath also given unto us his holy Spirit.

4:9    論到弟兄們相愛，不用人寫信給你們，因為你們自己蒙了神的教訓，叫你們彼此相愛。
But as touching brotherly love ye need not that I write unto you: for ye yourselves are taught of God to love one another.

4:10    你們向馬其頓全地的眾弟兄，固然是這樣行，但我勸弟兄們要更加勉勵。
And indeed ye do it toward all the brethren which are in all Macedonia: but we beseech you, brethren, that ye increase more and more;

4:11    又要立志作安靜人，辦自己的事，親手作工，正如我們從前所吩咐你們的。
And that ye study to be quiet, and to do your own business, and to work with your own hands, as we commanded you;

4:12    叫你們可以向外人行事端正，自己也就沒有什麼缺乏了。
That ye may walk honestly toward them that are without, and that ye may have lack of nothing.

4:13    論到睡了的人，我們不願意弟兄們不知道，恐怕你們憂傷，像那些沒有指望的人一樣。
But I would not have you to be ignorant, brethren, concerning them which are asleep, that ye sorrow not, even as others which have no hope.

4:14    我們若信耶穌死而復活了，那已經在耶穌裡睡了的人，神也必將他與耶穌一同帶來。
For if we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so them also which sleep in Jesus will God bring with him.

4:15    我們現在照主的話告訴你們一件事。我們這活著還存留到主降臨的人，斷不能在那已經睡了的人之先。
For this we say unto you by the word of the Lord, that we which are alive and remain unto the coming of the Lord shall not prevent them which are asleep.

4:16    因為主必親自從天降臨，有呼叫的聲音，和天使長的聲音，又有神的號吹響。那在基督裡死了的人必先復活。
For the Lord himself shall descend from heaven with a shout, with the voice of the archangel, and with the trump of God: and the dead in Christ shall rise first:

4:17    以後我們這活著還存留的人，必和他們一同被提到雲裡，在空中與主相遇。這樣，我們就要和主永遠同在。
Then we which are alive and remain shall be caught up together with them in the clouds, to meet the Lord in the air: and so shall we ever be with the Lord.



4:18    所以你們當用這些話彼此勸慰。
Wherefore comfort one another with these words.




新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦前書(1 Thessalonians) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


5:1    弟兄們，論到時候日期，不用寫信給你們。
But of the times and the seasons, brethren, ye have no need that I write unto you.

5:2    因為你們自己明明曉得，主的日子來到，好像夜間的賊一樣。
For yourselves know perfectly that the day of the Lord so cometh as a thief in the night.

5:3    人正說平安穩妥的時候，災禍忽然臨到他們，如同叄難臨到懷胎的婦人一樣，他們絕不能逃脫。
For when they shall say, Peace and safety; then sudden destruction cometh upon them, as travail upon a woman with child; and they shall not escape.

5:4    弟兄們，你們卻不在黑暗裡，叫那日子臨到你們像賊一樣。
But ye, brethren, are not in darkness, that that day should overtake you as a thief.

5:5    你們都是光明之子，都是白晝之子，我們不是屬黑夜的，也不是屬幽暗的。
Ye are all the children of light, and the children of the day: we are not of the night, nor of darkness.

5:6    所以我們不要睡覺，像別人一樣，總要儆醒謹守。
Therefore let us not sleep, as do others; but let us watch and be sober.

5:7    因為睡了的人是在夜間睡。醉了的人是在夜間醉。
For they that sleep sleep in the night; and they that be drunken are drunken in the night.

5:8    但我們既然屬乎白晝，就應當謹守，把信和愛當作護心鏡遮胸。把得救的盼望當作頭盔戴上。
But let us, who are of the day, be sober, putting on the breastplate of faith and love; and for an helmet, the hope of salvation.

5:9    因為神不是豫定我們受刑，乃是豫定我們藉著我們主耶穌基督得救。
For God hath not appointed us to wrath, but to obtain salvation by our Lord Jesus Christ,

5:10    他替我們死，叫我們無論醒著睡著，都與他同活。
Who died for us, that, whether we wake or sleep, we should live together with him.

5:11    所以你們該彼此勸慰，互相建立，正如你們素常所行的。
Wherefore comfort yourselves together, and edify one another, even as also ye do.

5:12    弟兄們，我們勸你們敬重那在你們中間勞苦的人，就是在主裡面治理你們，勸戒你們的。
And we beseech you, brethren, to know them which labour among you, and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you;

5:13    又因他們所作的工，用愛心格外尊重他們，你們也要彼此和睦。
And to esteem them very highly in love for their work's sake. And be at peace among yourselves.

5:14    我們又勸弟兄們，要警戒不守規矩的人。勉勵灰心的人。扶助軟弱的人。也要向眾人忍耐。
Now we exhort you, brethren, warn them that are unruly, comfort the feebleminded, support the weak, be patient toward all men.

5:15    你們要謹慎，無論是誰都不可以惡報惡。或是彼此相待，或是待眾人，常要追求良善。
See that none render evil for evil unto any man; but ever follow that which is good, both among yourselves, and to all men.

5:16    要常常喜樂。
Rejoice evermore.

5:17    不住的禱告。
Pray without ceasing.

5:18    凡事謝恩。因為這是神在基督耶穌裡向你們所定的旨意。
In every thing give thanks: for this is the will of God in Christ Jesus concerning you.

5:19    不要銷滅聖靈的感動。
Quench not the Spirit.

5:20    不要藐視先知的講論。
Despise not prophesyings.

5:21    但要凡事察驗。善美的要持守。
Prove all things; hold fast that which is good.

5:22    各樣的惡事要禁戒不作。
Abstain from all appearance of evil.

5:23    願賜平安的神，親自使你們全然成聖。又願你們的靈，與魂，與身子，得蒙保守，在我主耶穌基督降臨的時候，完全無可指摘。
And the very God of peace sanctify you wholly; and I pray God your whole spirit and soul and body be preserved blameless unto the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ.

5:24    那召你們的本是信實的，他必成就這事。
Faithful is he that calleth you, who also will do it.

5:25    請弟兄們為我們禱告。
Brethren, pray for us.

5:26    與眾弟兄親嘴問安務要聖潔。
Greet all the brethren with an holy kiss.

5:27    我指著主囑咐你們，要把這信念給眾弟兄聽。
I charge you by the Lord that this epistle be read unto all the holy brethren.

5:28    願我主耶穌基督的恩常與你們同在。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you. Amen.



