
新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦後書(2 Thessalonians) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    保羅，西拉，提摩太，寫信給帖撒羅尼迦在神我們的父，與主耶穌基督裡的教會。
Paul, and Silvanus, and Timotheus, unto the church of the Thessalonians in God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ:

1:2    願恩惠平安，從父神和主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
Grace unto you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:3    弟兄們，我們該為你們常常感謝神，這本是合宜的。因你們的信心格外增長，並且你們眾人彼此相愛的心也都充足。
We are bound to thank God always for you, brethren, as it is meet, because that your faith groweth exceedingly, and the charity of every one of you all toward each other aboundeth;

1:4    甚至我們在神的各教會裡為你們誇口，都因你們在所受的一切逼迫患難中，仍舊存忍耐和信心。
So that we ourselves glory in you in the churches of God for your patience and faith in all your persecutions and tribulations that ye endure:

1:5    這正是神公義判斷的明證。叫你們可算配得神的國，你們就是為這國受苦。
Which is a manifest token of the righteous judgment of God, that ye may be counted worthy of the kingdom of God, for which ye also suffer:

1:6    神既是公義的，就必將患難報應那加患難給你們的人。
Seeing it is a righteous thing with God to recompense tribulation to them that trouble you;

1:7    也必使你們這受患難的人，與我們同得平安。那時，主耶穌同他有能力的天使從天上在火焰中顯現，
And to you who are troubled rest with us, when the Lord Jesus shall be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels,

1:8    要報應那不認識神，和那不聽從我主耶穌福音的人。
In flaming fire taking vengeance on them that know not God, and that obey not the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ:

1:9    他們要受刑罰，就是永遠沉淪，離開主的面和他權能的榮光。
Who shall be punished with everlasting destruction from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power;

1:10    這正是主降臨要在他聖徒的身上得榮耀，又在一切信的人身上顯為希奇的那日子。（我們對你們作的見證，你們也信了。）
When he shall come to be glorified in his saints, and to be admired in all them that believe (because our testimony among you was believed) in that day.



1:11    因此，我們常為你們禱告，願我們的神看你們配得過所蒙的召。又用大能成就你們一切所羨慕的良善，和一切因信心所作的工夫。
Wherefore also we pray always for you, that our God would count you worthy of this calling, and fulfil all the good pleasure of his goodness, and the work of faith with power:

1:12    叫我們主耶穌的名在你們身上得榮耀，你們也在他們身上得榮耀，都照著我們的神並主耶穌基督的恩。
That the name of our Lord Jesus Christ may be glorified in you, and ye in him, according to the grace of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ.




新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦後書(2 Thessalonians) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　　


2:1    弟兄們，論到我們主耶穌基督降臨，和我們到他那裡聚集，
Now we beseech you, brethren, by the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, and by our gathering together unto him,

2:2    我勸你們，無論有靈有言語，有冒我名的書信，說主的日子現在到了，（現在或作就）不要輕易動心，也不要驚慌。
That ye be not soon shaken in mind, or be troubled, neither by spirit, nor by word, nor by letter as from us, as that the day of Christ is at hand.

2:3    人不拘用什嗎法子，你們總不要被他誘惑，因為那日子以前，必有離道反教的事，並有那大罪人，就是沈淪之子，顯露出來。
Let no man deceive you by any means: for that day shall not come, except there come a falling away first, and that man of sin be revealed, the son of perdition;

2:4    他是抵擋主，高抬自己，超過一切稱為神的，和一切受人敬拜的。甚至坐在神的殿裡，自稱是神。
Who opposeth and exalteth himself above all that is called God, or that is worshipped; so that he as God sitteth in the temple of God, shewing himself that he is God.

2:5    我還在你們那裡的時候，曾把這些事告訴你們，你們不記得嗎。
Remember ye not, that, when I was yet with you, I told you these things?

2:6    現在你們也知道那攔阻他的是什麼，是叫他到了的時候，才可以顯露。
And now ye know what withholdeth that he might be revealed in his time.

2:7    因為那不法的隱意已經發動。只是現在有一個攔阻的，等到那攔阻的被除去。
For the mystery of iniquity doth already work: only he who now letteth will let, until he be taken out of the way.

2:8    那時這不法的人，必顯露出來。主耶穌要用口中的氣滅絕他，用降臨的榮光廢掉他。
And then shall that Wicked be revealed, whom the Lord shall consume with the spirit of his mouth, and shall destroy with the brightness of his coming:

2:9    這不法的人來，是照撒但的運動，行各樣的異能神蹟，和一切虛假的奇事，
Even him, whose coming is after the working of Satan with all power and signs and lying wonders,

2:10    並且在那沉淪的人身上，行各樣出於不義的詭詐。因為他們不領受真理的心，使他們得救。
And with all deceivableness of unrighteousness in them that perish; because they received not the love of the truth, that they might be saved.

2:11    故此，神就給他們一個生髮錯誤的心，叫他們信從虛謊。
And for this cause God shall send them strong delusion, that they should believe a lie:

2:12    使一切不信真理，倒喜愛不義的人，都被定罪。
That they all might be damned who believed not the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness.

2:13    主所愛的弟兄哪，我們本該常為你們感謝神。因為他從起初揀選了你們，叫你們因信真道，又被聖靈感動，成為聖潔，能以得救。
But we are bound to give thanks alway to God for you, brethren beloved of the Lord, because God hath from the beginning chosen you to salvation through sanctification of the Spirit and belief of the truth:

2:14    神藉我們所傳的福音，召你們到這地步，好得著我們主耶穌基督的榮光。
Whereunto he called you by our gospel, to the obtaining of the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ.

2:15    所以弟兄們，你們要站立得穩，凡所領受的教訓，不拘是我們口傳的，是信上寫的，都要堅守。
Therefore, brethren, stand fast, and hold the traditions which ye have been taught, whether by word, or our epistle.

2:16    但願我們主耶穌基督，和那愛我們，開恩將永遠的安慰，並美好的盼望，賜給我們的父神，
Now our Lord Jesus Christ himself, and God, even our Father, which hath loved us, and hath given us everlasting consolation and good hope through grace,

2:17    安慰你們的心，並且在一切善行善言上，堅固你們。
Comfort your hearts, and stablish you in every good word and work.




新約 -- 帖撒羅尼迦後書(2 Thessalonians) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    弟兄們，我還有話說，請你們為我們禱告，好叫主的道理快快行開，得著榮耀，正如在你們中間一樣。
Finally, brethren, pray for us, that the word of the Lord may have free course, and be glorified, even as it is with you:

3:2    也叫我們脫離無理之惡人的手。因為人不都是有信心。
And that we may be delivered from unreasonable and wicked men: for all men have not faith.

3:3    但主是信實的，要堅固你們，保護你們脫離那惡者。（或作脫離凶惡）
But the Lord is faithful, who shall stablish you, and keep you from evil.

3:4    我們靠主深信你們現在是遵行我們所吩咐的，後來也必要遵行。
And we have confidence in the Lord touching you, that ye both do and will do the things which we command you.

3:5    願主引導你們的心，叫你們愛神並學基督的忍耐。
And the Lord direct your hearts into the love of God, and into the patient waiting for Christ.

3:6    弟兄們，我們奉主耶穌基督的名吩咐你們，凡有弟兄不按規矩而行，不遵守從我們所受的教訓，就當遠離他。
Now we command you, brethren, in the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, that ye withdraw yourselves from every brother that walketh disorderly, and not after the tradition which he received of us.

3:7    你們自己原知道應當怎樣效法我們。因為我們在你們中間，未嘗不按規矩而行。
For yourselves know how ye ought to follow us: for we behaved not ourselves disorderly among you;

3:8    也未嘗白吃人的飯。倒是辛苦勞碌，晝夜作工，免得叫你們一人受累。
Neither did we eat any man's bread for nought; but wrought with labour and travail night and day, that we might not be chargeable to any of you:

3:9    這並不是因我們沒有權柄，乃是要給你們作榜樣，叫你們效法我們。
Not because we have not power, but to make ourselves an ensample unto you to follow us.

3:10    我們在你們那裡的時候，曾吩咐你們說，若有人不肯作工，就不可吃飯。
For even when we were with you, this we commanded you, that if any would not work, neither should he eat.

3:11    因我們聽說，在你們中間有人不按規矩而行，什麼工都不作，反倒專管閒事。
For we hear that there are some which walk among you disorderly, working not at all, but are busybodies.

3:12    我們靠主耶穌基督，吩咐勸戒這樣的人，要安靜作工，吃自己的飯。
Now them that are such we command and exhort by our Lord Jesus Christ, that with quietness they work, and eat their own bread.

3:13    弟兄們，你們行善不可喪志。
But ye, brethren, be not weary in well doing.

3:14    若有人不聽從我們這信上的話，要記下他，不和他交往，叫他自覺羞愧。
And if any man obey not our word by this epistle, note that man, and have no company with him, that he may be ashamed.

3:15    但不要以他為仇人，要勸他如弟兄。
Yet count him not as an enemy, but admonish him as a brother.

3:16    願賜平安的主，隨時隨事親自給你們平安。願主常與你們眾人同在。
Now the Lord of peace himself give you peace always by all means. The Lord be with you all.

3:17    我保羅親筆問你們安。凡我的信都以此為記。我的筆跡就是這樣。
The salutation of Paul with mine own hand, which is the token in every epistle: so I write.

3:18    願我們主耶穌基督的恩，常與你們眾人同在。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.


