

新約 -- 提摩太前書(1 Timothy) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　


1:1    奉我們救主神，和我們的盼望基督耶穌之命，作基督耶穌使徒的保羅，
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the commandment of God our Saviour, and Lord Jesus Christ, which is our hope;

1:2    寫信給那因信主作我真兒子的提摩太。願恩惠憐憫平安，從父神和我們主基督耶穌，歸與你。
Unto Timothy, my own son in the faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God our Father and Jesus Christ our Lord.

1:3    我往馬其頓去的時候，曾勸你仍住在以弗所，好囑咐那幾個人，不可傳異教，
As I besought thee to abide still at Ephesus, when I went into Macedonia, that thou mightest charge some that they teach no other doctrine,

1:4    也不可聽從荒渺無憑的話語，和無窮的家譜。這等事只生辯論，並不發明神在信上所立的章程。
Neither give heed to fables and endless genealogies, which minister questions, rather than godly edifying which is in faith: so do.

1:5    但命令的總歸就是愛。這愛是從清潔的心，和無虧的良心，無偽的信心，生出來的。
Now the end of the commandment is charity out of a pure heart, and of a good conscience, and of faith unfeigned:

1:6    有人偏離這些，反去講虛浮的話。
From which some having swerved have turned aside unto vain jangling;

1:7    想要作教法師，卻不明白自己所講說的，所論定的。
Desiring to be teachers of the law; understanding neither what they say, nor whereof they affirm.

1:8    我們知道律法原是好的，只要人用得合宜。
But we know that the law is good, if a man use it lawfully;

1:9    因為律法不是為義人設立的，乃是為不法和不服的，不虔誠和犯罪的，不聖潔和戀世俗的，弒父母和殺人的，
Knowing this, that the law is not made for a righteous man, but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and for sinners, for unholy and profane, for murderers of fathers and murderers of mothers, for manslayers,

1:10    行淫和親男色的，搶人口和說謊話的，並起假誓的，或是為別樣敵正道的事設立的。
For whoremongers, for them that defile themselves with mankind, for menstealers, for liars, for perjured persons, and if there be any other thing that is contrary to sound doctrine;

1:11    這是照著可稱頌之神交託我榮耀福音說的。
According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God, which was committed to my trust.

1:12    我感謝那給我力量的，我們主基督耶穌，因他以我有忠心，派我服事他。
And I thank Christ Jesus our Lord, who hath enabled me, for that he counted me faithful, putting me into the ministry;

1:13    我從前是褻瀆神的，逼迫人的，悔慢人的。然而我還蒙了憐憫，因我是不信不明白的時候而作的。
Who was before a blasphemer, and a persecutor, and injurious: but I obtained mercy, because I did it ignorantly in unbelief.

1:14    並且我主的恩是格外豐盛，使我在基督耶穌裡有信心和愛心。
And the grace of our Lord was exceeding abundant with faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:15    基督耶穌降世，為要拯救罪人。這話是可信的，是十分可佩服的。在罪人中我個是罪魁。
This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners; of whom I am chief.

1:16    然而我蒙了憐憫，是因耶穌基督要在我這罪魁身上，顯明他一切的忍耐，給後來信他得永生的人作榜樣。
Howbeit for this cause I obtained mercy, that in me first Jesus Christ might shew forth all longsuffering, for a pattern to them which should hereafter believe on him to life everlasting.

1:17    但願尊貴，榮耀歸與那不能朽壞不能看見永世的君王，獨一的神，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
Now unto the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only wise God, be honour and glory for ever and ever. Amen.

1:18    我兒提摩太阿，我照從前指著你的預言，將這命令交託你，叫你因此可以打那美好的杖。
This charge I commit unto thee, son Timothy, according to the prophecies which went before on thee, that thou by them mightest war a good warfare;

1:19    常存信心，和無虧的良心。有人丟棄良心，就在真道上如同船破壞了一般。
Holding faith, and a good conscience; which some having put away concerning faith have made shipwreck:

1:20    其中有許米乃和亞歷山大。我已經把他們交給撒但，使他們受責罰，就不再謗瀆了。
Of whom is Hymenaeus and Alexander; whom I have delivered unto Satan, that they may learn not to blaspheme.




新約 -- 提摩太前書(1 Timothy) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


2:1    我勸你第一要為萬人懇求禱告，代求，祝謝。
I exhort therefore, that, first of all, supplications, prayers, intercessions, and giving of thanks, be made for all men;

2:2    為君王和一切在位的也該如此。使我們可以敬虔端正，平安無事的度日。
For kings, and for all that are in authority; that we may lead a quiet and peaceable life in all godliness and honesty.

2:3    這是好的，在神我們救主面前可蒙悅訥。
For this is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Saviour;

2:4    他願意萬人得救，明白真道。
Who will have all men to be saved, and to come unto the knowledge of the truth.

2:5    因為只有一位神，在神和人中間，只有一位中保，乃是降世為人的基督耶穌。
For there is one God, and one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus;

2:6    他舍自己作萬人的贖價。到了時候，這事必證明出來。
Who gave himself a ransom for all, to be testified in due time.

2:7    我為此奉派，作傳道的，作使徒，作外邦人的師傅，教導他們相信，學習涉道。我說的是真話，並不是謊言。
Whereunto I am ordained a preacher, and an apostle, (I speak the truth in Christ, and lie not;) a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and verity.

2:8    我願男人無忿怒，無爭論，（爭論或作疑惑），舉起聖潔的手，隨處禱告。
I will therefore that men pray every where, lifting up holy hands, without wrath and doubting.

2:9    又願女人廉恥，自守，以正派衣裳為妝飾，不以編髮，黃金，珍珠，和貴价的衣裳為妝飾。
In like manner also, that women adorn themselves in modest apparel, with shamefacedness and sobriety; not with broided hair, or gold, or pearls, or costly array;

2:10    只要有善行。這才與自稱是敬神的女人相宜。
But (which becometh women professing godliness) with good works.

2:11    女人要沉靜學道，一味的順服。
Let the woman learn in silence with all subjection.

2:12    我不許女人講道，也不許他轄管男人，只要沉靜。
But I suffer not a woman to teach, nor to usurp authority over the man, but to be in silence.

2:13    因為先造的是亞當，後造的是夏娃。
For Adam was first formed, then Eve.

2:14    且不是亞當被引誘，乃是女人被引誘，陷在罪裡。
And Adam was not deceived, but the woman being deceived was in the transgression.

2:15    然而女人若常存信心愛心，又聖潔自守，就必在生產上得救。
Notwithstanding she shall be saved in childbearing, if they continue in faith and charity and holiness with sobriety.




新約 -- 提摩太前書(1 Timothy) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


3:1    人若想得監督的職分，就是羨慕善工。這話是可信的。
This is a true saying, If a man desire the office of a bishop, he desireth a good work.

3:2    作監督的，必須無可指責，只作一個婦人的丈夫，有節制，自守，端正。樂意接待遠人，善於教導。
A bishop then must be blameless, the husband of one wife, vigilant, sober, of good behaviour, given to hospitality, apt to teach;

3:3    不因酒滋事，不打人，只要溫和，不爭競，不貪財。
Not given to wine, no striker, not greedy of filthy lucre; but patient, not a brawler, not covetous;

3:4    好好管理自己的家，使兒女凡事端莊順服。（或作端端莊莊的使兒女順服）
One that ruleth well his own house, having his children in subjection with all gravity;

3:5    人若不知道管理自己的家，焉能照管神的教會呢。
(For if a man know not how to rule his own house, how shall he take care of the church of God?)

3:6    初入教的不可作監督，恐怕他自高自大，就落在魔鬼所受的刑罰裡。
Not a novice, lest being lifted up with pride he fall into the condemnation of the devil.

3:7    監督也必須在教外有好名聲，恐怕被人毀謗，落在魔鬼的網羅裡。
Moreover he must have a good report of them which are without; lest he fall into reproach and the snare of the devil.

3:8    論執事的也是如此，必須端莊，不一口兩舌，不好喝酒，不貪不義之財。
Likewise must the deacons be grave, not doubletongued, not given to much wine, not greedy of filthy lucre;

3:9    要存清潔的良心，固守真道的奧祕。
Holding the mystery of the faith in a pure conscience.

3:10    這等人也要先受試驗。若沒有可責之處，然後叫他們作執事。
And let these also first be proved; then let them use the office of a deacon, being found blameless.

3:11    女執事（原文作女人）也是如此，必須端莊，不說讒言，有節制，凡事忠心。
Even so must their wives be grave, not slanderers, sober, faithful in all things.

3:12    執事只要作一個婦人的丈夫，好好管理兒女和自己的家。
Let the deacons be the husbands of one wife, ruling their children and their own houses well.

3:13    因為善作執事的，自己就得到美好的地步，並且在基督耶穌裡的真道上大有膽量。
For they that have used the office of a deacon well purchase to themselves a good degree, and great boldness in the faith which is in Christ Jesus.

3:14    我指望快到你那裡去，所以先將這些事寫給你。
These things write I unto thee, hoping to come unto thee shortly:

3:15    倘若我耽延日久，你也可以知道在神的家中當怎樣行。這家就是永生神的教會，真理的柱石和根基。
But if I tarry long, that thou mayest know how thou oughtest to behave thyself in the house of God, which is the church of the living God, the pillar and ground of the truth.

3:16    大哉，敬虔的奧祕，無人不以為然，就是神在肉身顯現，被聖靈稱義，（或作在靈性稱義），被天使看見，被傳於外邦，被世人信服，被接在榮耀裡。
And without controversy great is the mystery of godliness: God was manifest in the flesh, justified in the Spirit, seen of angels, preached unto the Gentiles, believed on in the world, received up into glory.




新約 -- 提摩太前書(1 Timothy) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


4:1    聖靈明說，在後來的時候，必有人離棄真道，聽從那引誘人的（邪）靈，和鬼魔的道理。
Now the Spirit speaketh expressly, that in the latter times some shall depart from the faith, giving heed to seducing spirits, and doctrines of devils;

4:2    這是因為說謊之人的假冒。這等人的良心，如同被熱鐵烙慣了一般。
Speaking lies in hypocrisy; having their conscience seared with a hot iron;

4:3    他們禁止嫁娶，又禁戒食物，（或作又叫人戒葷）就是神所造叫那信而明白真道的人，感謝著領受的。
Forbidding to marry, and commanding to abstain from meats, which God hath created to be received with thanksgiving of them which believe and know the truth.

4:4    凡神所造的物，都是好的。若感謝著領受，就沒有一樣可棄的。
For every creature of God is good, and nothing to be refused, if it be received with thanksgiving:

4:5    都因神的道和人的祈求，成為聖潔了。
For it is sanctified by the word of God and prayer.

4:6    你若將這些事題醒弟兄們，便是基督耶穌的好執事，在真道的話語，和你向來所服從的善道上，得了教育。
If thou put the brethren in remembrance of these things, thou shalt be a good minister of Jesus Christ, nourished up in the words of faith and of good doctrine, whereunto thou hast attained.

4:7    只是要棄絕那世俗的言語，和老婦荒渺的話，在敬虔上操練自己。
But refuse profane and old wives' fables, and exercise thyself rather unto godliness.

4:8    操練身體，益處還少。惟獨敬虔，凡事都有益處。因有今生和來生的應許。
For bodily exercise profiteth little: but godliness is profitable unto all things, having promise of the life that now is, and of that which is to come.

4:9    這話是可信的，是十分可佩服的。
This is a faithful saying and worthy of all acceptation.

4:10    我們勞苦努力，正是為此。因我們的指望在乎永生的神。他是萬人的救主，更是信徒的救主。
For therefore we both labour and suffer reproach, because we trust in the living God, who is the Saviour of all men, specially of those that believe.

4:11    這些事你要吩咐人，也要教導人。
These things command and teach.

4:12    不可叫人小看你年輕。總要在言語，行為，愛心，信心，清潔上，都作信徒的榜樣。
Let no man despise thy youth; but be thou an example of the believers, in word, in conversation, in charity, in spirit, in faith, in purity.

4:13    你要以宣讀，勸勉，教導為念，直等到我來。
Till I come, give attendance to reading, to exhortation, to doctrine.

4:14    你不可輕忽所得的恩賜，就是從前藉著預言，在眾長老按手的時候，賜給你的。
Neglect not the gift that is in thee, which was given thee by prophecy, with the laying on of the hands of the presbytery.

4:15    這些事你要殷勤去作，並要在此專心，使眾人看出你的長進來。
Meditate upon these things; give thyself wholly to them; that thy profiting may appear to all.

4:16    你要謹慎自己和自己的教訓，要在這些事上恆心。因為這樣行，又能救自己，又能救聽你的人。
Take heed unto thyself, and unto the doctrine; continue in them: for in doing this thou shalt both save thyself, and them that hear thee.




新約 -- 提摩太前書(1 Timothy) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　　


5:1    不可嚴責老年人，只要勸他們如同父親。勸少年人如同弟兄。
Rebuke not an elder, but intreat him as a father; and the younger men as brethren;

5:2    勸老年婦女如同母親。勸少年婦女如同姐妹。總要清清潔潔的。
The elder women as mothers; the younger as sisters, with all purity.

5:3    要尊敬那真為寡婦的。
Honour widows that are widows indeed.

5:4    若寡婦有兒女，或有孫子孫女，便叫他們先在自己的家中學著行孝，報答親恩，因為這在神面前是可悅納的。
But if any widow have children or nephews, let them learn first to shew piety at home, and to requite their parents: for that is good and acceptable before God.

5:5    那獨居無靠真為寡婦的，是仰賴神，晝夜不住的祈求禱告。
Now she that is a widow indeed, and desolate, trusteth in God, and continueth in supplications and prayers night and day.

5:6    但那好宴樂的寡婦，正活著的時候也是死的。
But she that liveth in pleasure is dead while she liveth.

5:7    這些事你要囑咐他們，叫他們無可指責。
And these things give in charge, that they may be blameless.

5:8    人若不看顧親屬，就是背了真道，比不信的人還不好。不看顧自己家裡的人，更是如此。
But if any provide not for his own, and specially for those of his own house, he hath denied the faith, and is worse than an infidel.

5:9    寡婦記在冊上，必須年紀到六十歲，從來只作一個丈夫的妻子，
Let not a widow be taken into the number under threescore years old, having been the wife of one man,

5:10    又有行善的名聲，就如養育兒女，接待遠人，洗聖徒的腳，救濟遭難的人，竭力行各樣善事。
Well reported of for good works; if she have brought up children, if she have lodged strangers, if she have washed the saints' feet, if she have relieved the afflicted, if she have diligently followed every good work.

5:11    至於年輕的寡婦，就可以辭他。因為他們的情慾發動，違背基督的時候，就想要嫁人。
But the younger widows refuse: for when they have begun to wax wanton against Christ, they will marry;

5:12    他們被定罪，是因廢棄了當初所許的願。
Having damnation, because they have cast off their first faith.

5:13    並且他們又習慣懶惰，挨家閒遊。不但是懶惰，又說長道短，好管閒事，說些不當說的話。
And withal they learn to be idle, wandering about from house to house; and not only idle, but tattlers also and busybodies, speaking things which they ought not.

5:14    所以我願意年輕的寡婦嫁人，生養兒女，治理家務，不給敵人辱罵的把柄。
I will therefore that the younger women marry, bear children, guide the house, give none occasion to the adversary to speak reproachfully.

5:15    因為已經有轉去隨從撒但的。
For some are already turned aside after Satan.

5:16    信主的婦女，若家中有寡婦，自己就當救濟他們，不可累著教會，好使教會能救濟那真無倚靠的寡婦。
If any man or woman that believeth have widows, let them relieve them, and let not the church be charged; that it may relieve them that are widows indeed.

5:17    那善於管理教會的長老，當以為配受加倍的敬奉。那勞苦傳道教導人的，更當如此。
Let the elders that rule well be counted worthy of double honour, especially they who labour in the word and doctrine.

5:18    因為經上說，牛在場上踹谷的時候，不可籠住它的嘴。又說，工人得工價是應當的。
For the scripture saith, Thou shalt not muzzle the ox that treadeth out the corn. And, The labourer is worthy of his reward.

5:19    控告長老的呈子，非有兩三個見證就不要收。
Against an elder receive not an accusation, but before two or three witnesses.

5:20    犯罪的人，當在眾人面前責備他，叫其餘的人也可以懼怕。
Them that sin rebuke before all, that others also may fear.

5:21    我在神和基督耶穌並蒙揀選的天使面前囑咐你，要遵守這些話，不可存成見，行事也不可有偏心。
I charge thee before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, and the elect angels, that thou observe these things without preferring one before another, doing nothing by partiality.

5:22    給人行按手的禮，不可急促。不要在別人的罪上有分。要保守自己清潔。
Lay hands suddenly on no man, neither be partaker of other men's sins: keep thyself pure.

5:23    因你胃口不清，屢次患病，再不要照常喝水，可以稍微用點酒。
Drink no longer water, but use a little wine for thy stomach's sake and thine often infirmities.

5:24    有些人的罪是明顯的，如同先到審判案前。有些人的罪是隨後跟了去的。
Some men's sins are open beforehand, going before to judgment; and some men they follow after.

5:25    這樣，善行也有明顯的。那不明顯的，也不能隱藏。
Likewise also the good works of some are manifest beforehand; and they that are otherwise cannot be hid.




新約 -- 提摩太前書(1 Timothy) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 6 章 )    　


6:1    凡在軛下作僕人的，當以自己主人配受十分的恭敬，免得神的名和道理，被人褻瀆。
Let as many servants as are under the yoke count their own masters worthy of all honour, that the name of God and his doctrine be not blasphemed.

6:2    僕人有通道的主人，不可因為與他是弟兄就輕看他。更要加意服事他。因為得服事之益處的，是通道蒙愛的。你要以此教訓人，勸勉人。
And they that have believing masters, let them not despise them, because they are brethren; but rather do them service, because they are faithful and beloved, partakers of the benefit. These things teach and exhort.

6:3    若有人傳異教，不服從我們主耶穌基督純正的話，與那合乎敬虔的道理。
If any man teach otherwise, and consent not to wholesome words, even the words of our Lord Jesus Christ, and to the doctrine which is according to godliness;

6:4    他是自高自大，一無所知，專好問難爭辯言詞，從此就生出嫉妒，分爭，毀謗，妄疑，
He is proud, knowing nothing, but doting about questions and strifes of words, whereof cometh envy, strife, railings, evil surmisings,

6:5    並那壞了心術，失喪真理之人的爭競。他們以敬虔為得利的門路。
Perverse disputings of men of corrupt minds, and destitute of the truth, supposing that gain is godliness: from such withdraw thyself.

6:6    然而敬虔加上知足的心便是大利了。
But godliness with contentment is great gain.

6:7    因為我們沒有帶什麼到世上來，也不能帶什麼去。
For we brought nothing into this world, and it is certain we can carry nothing out.

6:8    只要有衣有食，就當知足。
And having food and raiment let us be therewith content.

6:9    但那些想發財的人，就陷在迷惑，落在網羅，和許多無知有害的私慾裡，叫人沉在敗壞和滅亡中。
But they that will be rich fall into temptation and a snare, and into many foolish and hurtful lusts, which drown men in destruction and perdition.

6:10    貪財是萬惡之根。有人貪戀錢財，就被引誘離了真道，用許多愁苦把自己刺透了。
For the love of money is the root of all evil: which while some coveted after, they have erred from the faith, and pierced themselves through with many sorrows.

6:11    但你這屬神的人，要逃避這些事，追求公義，敬虔，信心，愛心，忍耐，溫柔。
But thou, O man of God, flee these things; and follow after righteousness, godliness, faith, love, patience, meekness.

6:12    你要為真道打那美好的仗，持定永生。你為此被召，也在許多見證人面前，已經作了那美好的見證。
Fight the good fight of faith, lay hold on eternal life, whereunto thou art also called, and hast professed a good profession before many witnesses.

6:13    我在叫萬物生活的神面前，並在向本丟彼拉多作過那美好見證的基督耶穌面前囑咐你，
I give thee charge in the sight of God, who quickeneth all things, and before Christ Jesus, who before Pontius Pilate witnessed a good confession;

6:14    要守這命令，毫不玷汙，無可指責，直到我們的主耶穌基督顯現。
That thou keep this commandment without spot, unrebukeable, until the appearing of our Lord Jesus Christ:

6:15    到了日期，那可稱頌獨有權能的，萬王之王，萬主之主，
Which in his times he shall shew, who is the blessed and only Potentate, the King of kings, and Lord of lords;

6:16    就是那獨一不死，住在人不能靠近的光裡，是人未曾看見，也是不能看見的，要將他顯明出來。但願尊貴和永遠的權能，都歸給他。阿們。
Who only hath immortality, dwelling in the light which no man can approach unto; whom no man hath seen, nor can see: to whom be honour and power everlasting. Amen.

6:17    你要囑咐那些今世富足的人，不要漬高，也不要倚靠無定的錢財。只要倚靠那厚賜百物給我們享受的神。
Charge them that are rich in this world, that they be not highminded, nor trust in uncertain riches, but in the living God, who giveth us richly all things to enjoy;

6:18    又要囑咐他們行善，在好事上富足，甘心施捨，樂意供給人，（供給或作體貼）
That they do good, that they be rich in good works, ready to distribute, willing to communicate;

6:19    為自己積成美好的根基，豫備將來，叫他們持定那真正的生命。
Laying up in store for themselves a good foundation against the time to come, that they may lay hold on eternal life.

6:20    提摩太阿，你要保守所託付你的，躲避世俗的虛談，和那敵真道似是而非的學問。
O Timothy, keep that which is committed to thy trust, avoiding profane and vain babblings, and oppositions of science falsely so called:

6:21    已經有人自稱有這學問，就偏離了真道。願恩惠常與你們同在。
Which some professing have erred concerning the faith. Grace be with thee. Amen.


