

新約 -- 提摩太後書(2 Timothy) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


1:1    奉神旨意，照著在基督耶穌裡生命的應許，作基督耶穌使徒的保羅，
Paul, an apostle of Jesus Christ by the will of God, according to the promise of life which is in Christ Jesus,

1:2    寫信給我親愛的兒子提摩太。願恩惠憐憫平安，從父神和我們主基督耶穌，歸與你。
To Timothy, my dearly beloved son: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord.

1:3    我感謝神，就是我接續祖先，用清潔的良心所事奉的神，祈禱的時候，不住的想念你，
I thank God, whom I serve from my forefathers with pure conscience, that without ceasing I have remembrance of thee in my prayers night and day;

1:4    記念你的眼淚，晝夜切切的想要見你，好叫我滿心快樂。
Greatly desiring to see thee, being mindful of thy tears, that I may be filled with joy;

1:5    想到你心裡無偽之信。這信是先在你外祖母羅以，和你母親友尼基心裡的。我深信也在你的心裡。
When I call to remembrance the unfeigned faith that is in thee, which dwelt first in thy grandmother Lois, and thy mother Eunice; and I am persuaded that in thee also.

1:6    為此我題醒你，使你將神藉我按手所給你的恩賜，再如火挑旺起來。
Wherefore I put thee in remembrance that thou stir up the gift of God, which is in thee by the putting on of my hands.

1:7    因為神賜給我們，不是膽怯的心，乃是剛強，仁愛，謹守的心。
For God hath not given us the spirit of fear; but of power, and of love, and of a sound mind.

1:8    你不要以給我們的主作見證為恥，也不要以我這為主被囚的為恥。總要按神的能力，與我為福音同受苦難。
Be not thou therefore ashamed of the testimony of our Lord, nor of me his prisoner: but be thou partaker of the afflictions of the gospel according to the power of God;

1:9    神救了我們，以聖召召我們，不是按我們的行為，乃是按他的旨意，和恩典。這恩典是萬古之先，在基督耶穌裡賜給我們的。
Who hath saved us, and called us with an holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace, which was given us in Christ Jesus before the world began,

1:10    但如今藉著我們救主基督耶穌的顯現，才表明出來了。他已經把死廢去，藉著福音，將不能壞的生命彰顯出來。
But is now made manifest by the appearing of our Saviour Jesus Christ, who hath abolished death, and hath brought life and immortality to light through the gospel:

1:11    我為這福音奉派作傳道的，作使徒，作師傅。
Whereunto I am appointed a preacher, and an apostle, and a teacher of the Gentiles.

1:12    為這緣故，我也受這些苦難。然而我不以為恥。因為我知道我所信的是誰，也深信他能保全我所交付他的，（或作他所交託我的）直到那日。
For the which cause I also suffer these things: nevertheless I am not ashamed: for I know whom I have believed, and am persuaded that he is able to keep that which I have committed unto him against that day.

1:13    你從我聽的那純正話語的規模，要用在基督耶穌裡的信心和愛心，常常守著。
Hold fast the form of sound words, which thou hast heard of me, in faith and love which is in Christ Jesus.

1:14    從前所交託你的善道，你要靠著那住在我們裡面的聖靈，牢牢的守著。
That good thing which was committed unto thee keep by the Holy Ghost which dwelleth in us.

1:15    凡在亞細亞的人都離棄我，這是你知道的。其中有腓吉路和黑摩其尼。
This thou knowest, that all they which are in Asia be turned away from me; of whom are Phygellus and Hermogenes.

1:16    願主憐憫阿尼色弗一家的人。因他屢次使我暢快，不以我的鎖鏈為恥。
The Lord give mercy unto the house of Onesiphorus; for he oft refreshed me, and was not ashamed of my chain:

1:17    反倒在羅馬的時候，殷勤的找我，並且找著了。
But, when he was in Rome, he sought me out very diligently, and found me.

1:18    願主使他在那日得主的憐憫。他在以弗所怎樣多多的服事我，是你明明知道的。
The Lord grant unto him that he may find mercy of the Lord in that day: and in how many things he ministered unto me at Ephesus, thou knowest very well.




新約 -- 提摩太後書(2 Timothy) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　　


2:1    我兒阿，你要在基督耶穌的恩典上剛強起來。
Thou therefore, my son, be strong in the grace that is in Christ Jesus.

2:2    你在許多見證人面前聽見我所教訓的，也要交託那忠心能教導別人的人。
And the things that thou hast heard of me among many witnesses, the same commit thou to faithful men, who shall be able to teach others also.

2:3    你要和我同受苦難，好像基督耶穌的精兵。
Thou therefore endure hardness, as a good soldier of Jesus Christ.

2:4    凡在軍中當兵的，不將世物纏身，好叫那招他當兵的人喜悅。
No man that warreth entangleth himself with the affairs of this life; that he may please him who hath chosen him to be a soldier.

2:5    人若在場上比武，非按規矩，就不能得冠冕。
And if a man also strive for masteries, yet is he not crowned, except he strive lawfully.

2:6    勞力的農夫，理當先得糧食。
The husbandman that laboureth must be first partaker of the fruits.

2:7    我所說的話你要思想。因為凡事主必給你聰明。
Consider what I say; and the Lord give thee understanding in all things.

2:8    你要記念耶穌基督乃是大衛的後裔。他從死裡復活，正合乎我所傳的福音。
Remember that Jesus Christ of the seed of David was raised from the dead according to my gospel:

2:9    我為這福音受苦難，甚至被捆綁，像犯人一樣。然而神的道，卻不被捆綁。
Wherein I suffer trouble, as an evil doer, even unto bonds; but the word of God is not bound.

2:10    所以我為選民凡事忍耐，叫他們也可以得著那在基督耶穌的救恩，和永遠的榮耀。
Therefore I endure all things for the elect's sakes, that they may also obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory.

2:11    有可信的話說，我們若與基督同死，也必與他同活。
It is a faithful saying: For if we be dead with him, we shall also live with him:

2:12    我們若能忍耐，也必和他一同作王。我們若不認他，他也必不認我們。
If we suffer, we shall also reign with him: if we deny him, he also will deny us:

2:13    我們縱然失信，他仍是可信的。因為他不能背乎自己。
If we believe not, yet he abideth faithful: he cannot deny himself.

2:14    你要使眾人回想這些事，在主面前囑咐他們，不可為言語爭辯。這事沒有益處的，只能敗壞聽見的人。
Of these things put them in remembrance, charging them before the Lord that they strive not about words to no profit, but to the subverting of the hearers.

2:15    你當竭力，在神面前得蒙喜悅，作無愧的工人，按著正意分解真理的道。
Study to shew thyself approved unto God, a workman that needeth not to be ashamed, rightly dividing the word of truth.

2:16    但要遠避世俗的虛談。因為這等人必進到更不敬虔的地步。
But shun profane and vain babblings: for they will increase unto more ungodliness.

2:17    他們的話如同毒瘡，越爛越大。其中有許米乃和腓理徒。
And their word will eat as doth a canker: of whom is Hymenaeus and Philetus;

2:18    他們偏離了真道，說復活的事已過，就敗壞好些人的信心。
Who concerning the truth have erred, saying that the resurrection is past already; and overthrow the faith of some.

2:19    然而神堅固的根基立住了。上面有這印記說，主認識誰是他的人。又說，凡稱呼主名的人，總要離開不義。
Nevertheless the foundation of God standeth sure, having this seal, The Lord knoweth them that are his. And, Let every one that nameth the name of Christ depart from iniquity.

2:20    在大戶人家，不但有金器銀器，也有木器瓦器。有作為貴重的，有作為卑賤的。
But in a great house there are not only vessels of gold and of silver, but also of wood and of earth; and some to honour, and some to dishonour.

2:21    人若自潔，脫離卑賤的事，就必作貴重的器皿，成為聖潔，合乎主用，豫備行各樣的善事。
If a man therefore purge himself from these, he shall be a vessel unto honour, sanctified, and meet for the master's use, and prepared unto every good work.

2:22    你要逃避少年的私慾，同那清心禱告主的人追求公義，信德，仁愛，和平。
Flee also youthful lusts: but follow righteousness, faith, charity, peace, with them that call on the Lord out of a pure heart.

2:23    惟有那愚拙無學問的辯論，總要棄絕。因為知道這等事是起爭競的。
But foolish and unlearned questions avoid, knowing that they do gender strifes.

2:24    然而主的僕人不可爭競，只要溫溫和和的待眾人，善於教導，存心忍耐，
And the servant of the Lord must not strive; but be gentle unto all men, apt to teach, patient,

2:25    用溫柔勸戒那抵擋的人。或者給他們悔改的心，可以明白真道。
In meekness instructing those that oppose themselves; if God peradventure will give them repentance to the acknowledging of the truth;

2:26    叫他們這已經被魔鬼任意擄去的，可以醒悟，脫離他的網羅。
And that they may recover themselves out of the snare of the devil, who are taken captive by him at his will.




新約 -- 提摩太後書(2 Timothy) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　　


3:1    你該知道，末世必有危險的日子來到。
This know also, that in the last days perilous times shall come.

3:2    因為那時人要專顧自己，貪愛錢財，自誇，狂傲，謗？？，違背父母，忘恩負義，心不聖潔，
For men shall be lovers of their own selves, covetous, boasters, proud, blasphemers, disobedient to parents, unthankful, unholy,

3:3    無親情，不解怨，好說才言，不能自約，性情凶暴，不愛良善，
Without natural affection, trucebreakers, false accusers, incontinent, fierce, despisers of those that are good,

3:4    賣主賣友，任意妄為，自高自大，愛宴樂不愛神。
Traitors, heady, highminded, lovers of pleasures more than lovers of God;

3:5    有敬虔的外貌，卻背了敬虔的實意。這等人你要躲開。
Having a form of godliness, but denying the power thereof: from such turn away.

3:6    那偷進人家，牢籠無知婦女的，正是這等人。這些婦女擔負罪惡，被各樣的私慾引誘。
For of this sort are they which creep into houses, and lead captive silly women laden with sins, led away with divers lusts,

3:7    常常學習，終久不能明白真道。
Ever learning, and never able to come to the knowledge of the truth.

3:8    從前雅尼和佯庇怎樣敵擋摩西，這等人也怎樣敵擋真道。他們的心地壞了，在真道上是可廢棄的。
Now as Jannes and Jambres withstood Moses, so do these also resist the truth: men of corrupt minds, reprobate concerning the faith.

3:9    然而他們不能再這樣敵擋，因為他們的愚昧，必在眾人面前顯露出來，像那二人一樣。
But they shall proceed no further: for their folly shall be manifest unto all men, as theirs also was.

3:10    但你已經服從了我的教訓，品行，志向，信心，寬容，愛心，忍耐，
But thou hast fully known my doctrine, manner of life, purpose, faith, longsuffering, charity, patience,

3:11    以及我在安提阿，以哥念，路司得，所遭遇的逼迫，苦難。我所忍受是何等的逼迫。但從這一切苦難中主都把我救出來了。
Persecutions, afflictions, which came unto me at Antioch, at Iconium, at Lystra; what persecutions I endured: but out of them all the Lord delivered me.

3:12    不但如此，凡立志在基督耶穌裡敬虔度日的，也都要受逼迫。
Yea, and all that will live godly in Christ Jesus shall suffer persecution.

3:13    只是作惡的，和迷惑人的，必越久越惡，他欺哄人也被人欺哄。
But evil men and seducers shall wax worse and worse, deceiving, and being deceived.

3:14    但你所學習的，所確信的，要存在心裡。因為你知道是跟誰學的。
But continue thou in the things which thou hast learned and hast been assured of, knowing of whom thou hast learned them;

3:15    並且知道你是從小明白聖經。這聖經能使你因信基督耶穌有得救的智慧。
And that from a child thou hast known the holy scriptures, which are able to make thee wise unto salvation through faith which is in Christ Jesus.

3:16    聖經都是神所默示的，（或作凡神默示的聖經）於教訓，督責，使人歸正，教導人學義，都是有益的。
All scripture is given by inspiration of God, and is profitable for doctrine, for reproof, for correction, for instruction in righteousness:

3:17    叫屬神的人得以完全，豫備行各樣的善事。
That the man of God may be perfect, throughly furnished unto all good works.




新約 -- 提摩太後書(2 Timothy) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


4:1    我在神面前，並在將來審判活人死人的基督耶穌面前，憑著他的顯現和他的國度囑咐你。
I charge thee therefore before God, and the Lord Jesus Christ, who shall judge the quick and the dead at his appearing and his kingdom;

4:2    務要傳道。無論得時不得時，總要專心，並用百般的忍耐，各樣的教訓，責備人，警戒人，勸勉人。
Preach the word; be instant in season, out of season; reprove, rebuke, exhort with all longsuffering and doctrine.

4:3    因為時候要到，人必厭煩純正的道理。耳朵發癢，就隨從自己的情慾，增添好些師傅。
For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine; but after their own lusts shall they heap to themselves teachers, having itching ears;

4:4    並且掩耳不聽真道，偏向荒渺的言語。
And they shall turn away their ears from the truth, and shall be turned unto fables.

4:5    你卻要凡事謹慎，忍受苦難，作傳道的工夫，盡你的職分。
But watch thou in all things, endure afflictions, do the work of an evangelist, make full proof of thy ministry.

4:6    我現在被澆奠，我離世的時候到了。
For I am now ready to be offered, and the time of my departure is at hand.

4:7    那美好的仗我已經打過了。當跑的路我已經跑盡了。所信的道我已經守住了。
I have fought a good fight, I have finished my course, I have kept the faith:

4:8    從此以後，有公義的冠冕為我存留，就是按著公義審判的主到了那日要賜給我的。不但賜給我，也賜給凡愛慕他顯現的人。
Henceforth there is laid up for me a crown of righteousness, which the Lord, the righteous judge, shall give me at that day: and not to me only, but unto all them also that love his appearing.

4:9    你要趕緊的到我這裡來。
Do thy diligence to come shortly unto me:

4:10    因為底馬貪愛現今的世界，就離棄我往帖撒羅尼迦去了。革勒士往加拉太去。提多往撻馬太去。
For Demas hath forsaken me, having loved this present world, and is departed unto Thessalonica; Crescens to Galatia, Titus unto Dalmatia.

4:11    獨有路加在我這裡。你來的時候要把馬可帶來。因為他在傳道的事上於我有益處。（傳道或作服事我）
Only Luke is with me. Take Mark, and bring him with thee: for he is profitable to me for the ministry.

4:12    我已經打發推基古往以弗所去。
And Tychicus have I sent to Ephesus.

4:13    我在特羅亞留於加布的那件外衣，你來的時候可以帶來。那些書也要帶來。更要緊的是那些皮卷。
The cloke that I left at Troas with Carpus, when thou comest, bring with thee, and the books, but especially the parchments.

4:14    銅匠亞歷山大多多的害我。主必照他所行的報應他。
Alexander the coppersmith did me much evil: the Lord reward him according to his works:

4:15    你也要防備他。因為他極力敵擋了我們的話。
Of whom be thou ware also; for he hath greatly withstood our words.

4:16    我初次申訴，沒有人前來幫助，竟都離棄我。但願這罪不歸與他們。
At my first answer no man stood with me, but all men forsook me: I pray God that it may not be laid to their charge.

4:17    惟有主站在我旁邊，加給我力量，使福音被我盡都傳明，叫外邦人都聽見。我也從獅子口裡被救出來。
Notwithstanding the Lord stood with me, and strengthened me; that by me the preaching might be fully known, and that all the Gentiles might hear: and I was delivered out of the mouth of the lion.

4:18    主必救我脫離諸般的凶惡，也必救我進他的天國。願榮耀歸給他，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
And the Lord shall deliver me from every evil work, and will preserve me unto his heavenly kingdom: to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

4:19    問百基拉，亞居拉，和阿尼色弗一家的人安。
Salute Prisca and Aquila, and the household of Onesiphorus.

4:20    以拉都在哥林多住下了。特羅非摩病了，我就留他在米利都。
Erastus abode at Corinth: but Trophimus have I left at Miletum sick.

4:21    你要趕緊在冬天以前到我這裡來。有友布羅，布田，利奴，革老底亞，和眾弟兄，都問你安。
Do thy diligence to come before winter. Eubulus greeteth thee, and Pudens, and Linus, and Claudia, and all the brethren.

4:22    願主與你的靈同在。願恩惠常與你們同在。
The Lord Jesus Christ be with thy spirit. Grace be with you. Amen.



