

新約 -- 提多書(Titus) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    神的僕人，耶穌基督的使徒保羅，憑著神選民的信心，與敬虔真理的知識，
Paul, a servant of God, and an apostle of Jesus Christ, according to the faith of God's elect, and the acknowledging of the truth which is after godliness;

1:2    盼望那無謊言的神在萬古之先所應許的永生，
In hope of eternal life, which God, that cannot lie, promised before the world began;

1:3    到了日期，藉著傳揚的工夫，把他的道顯明瞭。這傳揚的責任，是按著神我們救主的命令交託了我。
But hath in due times manifested his word through preaching, which is committed unto me according to the commandment of God our Saviour;

1:4    現在寫信給提多，就是照著我們共信之道作我真兒子的。願恩惠平安，從父神和我們的救主基督耶穌歸與你。
To Titus, mine own son after the common faith: Grace, mercy, and peace, from God the Father and the Lord Jesus Christ our Saviour.

1:5    我從前留你在克里特，是要你將沒有辨完的事都辨整齊了，又照我所吩咐你的，在各城設立長老。
For this cause left I thee in Crete, that thou shouldest set in order the things that are wanting, and ordain elders in every city, as I had appointed thee:

1:6    若有無可指責的人，只作一個婦人的丈夫，兒女也是信主的，沒有人告訴他們是放蕩不服約束的，就可以設立。
If any be blameless, the husband of one wife, having faithful children not accused of riot or unruly.

1:7    監督既是神的管家，必須無可指責，不任性，不暴躁，不因酒滋事，不打人，不貪無義之財，
For a bishop must be blameless, as the steward of God; not selfwilled, not soon angry, not given to wine, no striker, not given to filthy lucre;

1:8    樂意接待遠人，好善，莊重，公平，聖潔，自持。
But a lover of hospitality, a lover of good men, sober, just, holy, temperate;

1:9    堅守所教真實的道理，就能將純正的教訓勸化人。又能把爭辯的人駁倒了。
Holding fast the faithful word as he hath been taught, that he may be able by sound doctrine both to exhort and to convince the gainsayers.

1:10    因為有許多人不服約束，說虛空話，欺哄人。那奉割禮的，更是這樣。
For there are many unruly and vain talkers and deceivers, specially they of the circumcision:

1:11    這些人的口總要堵住。他們因貪不義之財，將不該教導的教導人，敗壞人的全家。
Whose mouths must be stopped, who subvert whole houses, teaching things which they ought not, for filthy lucre's sake.

1:12    有克里特人中的一個本地先知說，克里特人常說謊話，乃是惡獸，又饞又懶。
One of themselves, even a prophet of their own, said, The Cretians are alway liars, evil beasts, slow bellies.

1:13    這個見證是真的。所以你要嚴嚴的責備他們，使他們在真道上純全無疵。
This witness is true. Wherefore rebuke them sharply, that they may be sound in the faith;

1:14    不聽猶太人荒渺的言語，和離棄真道之人的誡命。
Not giving heed to Jewish fables, and commandments of men, that turn from the truth.

1:15    在潔淨的人，凡物都潔淨。在汙穢不信的人，什麼都不潔淨。連心地和天良，也都汙穢了。
Unto the pure all things are pure: but unto them that are defiled and unbelieving is nothing pure; but even their mind and conscience is defiled.

1:16    他們說是認識神行事卻和他相背。本是可憎惡的，是悖逆的，在各樣善事上是可廢棄的。
They profess that they know God; but in works they deny him, being abominable, and disobedient, and unto every good work reprobate.



新約 -- 提多書(Titus) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　　


2:1    但你所講的，總要合乎那純正的道理。
But speak thou the things which become sound doctrine:

2:2    勸老年人，要有節制，端莊，自守，在信心愛心忍耐上，都要純全無疵。
That the aged men be sober, grave, temperate, sound in faith, in charity, in patience.

2:3    又勸老年婦人，舉止行動要恭敬，不說讒言，不給酒作奴僕，用善道教訓人。
The aged women likewise, that they be in behaviour as becometh holiness, not false accusers, not given to much wine, teachers of good things;

2:4    好指教少年婦人，愛丈夫，愛兒女，
That they may teach the young women to be sober, to love their husbands, to love their children,

2:5    謹守貞潔，料理家務，待人有恩，順服自己的丈夫，免得神的道理被毀謗。
To be discreet, chaste, keepers at home, good, obedient to their own husbands, that the word of God be not blasphemed.

2:6    又勸少年人要謹守。
Young men likewise exhort to be sober minded.

2:7    你自己凡事要顯出善行的榜樣，在教訓上要正直，端莊，
In all things shewing thyself a pattern of good works: in doctrine shewing uncorruptness, gravity, sincerity,

2:8    言語純全，無可指責，叫那反對的人，既無處可說我們的不是，便自覺羞愧。
Sound speech, that cannot be condemned; that he that is of the contrary part may be ashamed, having no evil thing to say of you.

2:9    勸僕人要順服自己的主人，凡事討他的喜歡。不可頂撞他。
Exhort servants to be obedient unto their own masters, and to please them well in all things; not answering again;

2:10    不可私拿東西。要顯為忠誠，以致凡事尊榮我們救主神的道。
Not purloining, but shewing all good fidelity; that they may adorn the doctrine of God our Saviour in all things.

2:11    因為神救眾人的恩典，已經顯明出來，
For the grace of God that bringeth salvation hath appeared to all men,

2:12    教訓我們除去不敬虔的心，和世俗的情慾，在今世自守，公義，敬虔度日。
Teaching us that, denying ungodliness and worldly lusts, we should live soberly, righteously, and godly, in this present world;

2:13    等候所盼望的福，並等候至大的神，和（或作無和字）我們救主耶穌基督的榮耀顯現。
Looking for that blessed hope, and the glorious appearing of the great God and our Saviour Jesus Christ;

2:14    他為我們舍了自己，要贖我們脫離一切罪惡，又潔淨我們，特作自己的子民，熱心為善。
Who gave himself for us, that he might redeem us from all iniquity, and purify unto himself a peculiar people, zealous of good works.

2:15    這些事你要講明，勸戒人，用各等權柄責備人。不可叫人輕看你。
These things speak, and exhort, and rebuke with all authority. Let no man despise thee.



新約 -- 提多書(Titus) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    你要題醒眾人，叫他們順服作官的，掌權的，遵他的命，豫備行各樣的善事。
Put them in mind to be subject to principalities and powers, to obey magistrates, to be ready to every good work,

3:2    不要毀謗，不要爭競，總要和平，向眾人大顯溫柔。
To speak evil of no man, to be no brawlers, but gentle, shewing all meekness unto all men.

3:3    我們從前也是無知，悖逆，受迷惑，服事各樣私慾和宴樂，常存惡毒（或作陰毒）嫉妒的心，是可恨的，又是彼此相恨。
For we ourselves also were sometimes foolish, disobedient, deceived, serving divers lusts and pleasures, living in malice and envy, hateful, and hating one another.

3:4    但到了神我們救主的恩慈，和他向人所施的慈愛顯明的時候，
But after that the kindness and love of God our Saviour toward man appeared,

3:5    他便救了我們，並不是因我們自己所行的義，乃是照他的憐憫，藉著重生的洗，和聖靈的更新。
Not by works of righteousness which we have done, but according to his mercy he saved us, by the washing of regeneration, and renewing of the Holy Ghost;

3:6    聖靈就是神藉著耶穌基督我們救主，厚厚澆灌在我們身上的。
Which he shed on us abundantly through Jesus Christ our Saviour;

3:7    好叫我們因他的恩得稱為義，可以憑著永生的盼望成為後嗣。（或作可以憑著盼望承受永生）。
That being justified by his grace, we should be made heirs according to the hope of eternal life.

3:8    這話是可信的，我也願你把這些事，切切實實的講明，使那些已信神的人，留心作正經事業。（或作留心行善）這都是美事，並且與人有益。
This is a faithful saying, and these things I will that thou affirm constantly, that they which have believed in God might be careful to maintain good works. These things are good and profitable unto men.

3:9    要遠避無知的辯論，和家譜的空談，以及分爭，並因律法而起的爭競。因為這都是虛妄無益的。
But avoid foolish questions, and genealogies, and contentions, and strivings about the law; for they are unprofitable and vain.

3:10    分門結黨的人，警戒過一兩次，就要棄絕他。
A man that is an heretick after the first and second admonition reject;

3:11    因為知道這等人已經背道，犯了罪，自己明知不是，還是去作。
Knowing that he that is such is subverted, and sinneth, being condemned of himself.

3:12    我打發亞提馬，或是推基古，到你那裡去的時候，你要趕緊往尼哥波立去見我。因為我已經定意在那裡過冬。
When I shall send Artemas unto thee, or Tychicus, be diligent to come unto me to Nicopolis: for I have determined there to winter.

3:13    你要趕緊給律師西納，和亞波羅送行，叫他們沒有缺乏。
Bring Zenas the lawyer and Apollos on their journey diligently, that nothing be wanting unto them.

3:14    並且我們的人要學習升經事業，（或作要學習行善）豫備所需用的，免得不結果子。
And let ours also learn to maintain good works for necessary uses, that they be not unfruitful.



3:15    同我在一處的人都問你安。請代問那些因有信心愛我們的人安。願恩惠常與你們眾人同在。
All that are with me salute thee. Greet them that love us in the faith. Grace be with you all. Amen.


