


新約 -- 腓利門書(Philemon) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 1 章 )    　


1:1    為基督耶穌被囚的保羅，同兄弟提摩太，寫信給我們所親愛的同工腓利門，
Paul, a prisoner of Jesus Christ, and Timothy our brother, unto Philemon our dearly beloved, and fellowlabourer,

1:2    和妹子亞腓亞，並與我們同當兵的亞基布，以及在你家的教會。
And to our beloved Apphia, and Archippus our fellowsoldier, and to the church in thy house:

1:3    願恩惠平安，從神我們的父，和主耶穌基督，歸與你們。
Grace to you, and peace, from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ.

1:4    我禱告的時候題到你，常為你感謝我的神。
I thank my God, making mention of thee always in my prayers,

1:5    因聽說你的愛心，並你向主耶穌和眾聖徒的信心。（或作因聽說你向主耶穌和眾聖徒有愛心有信心）
Hearing of thy love and faith, which thou hast toward the Lord Jesus, and toward all saints;

1:6    願你與人所同有的信心顯出功效，使人知道你們各樣善事都是為基督作的。
That the communication of thy faith may become effectual by the acknowledging of every good thing which is in you in Christ Jesus.

1:7    兄弟阿，我為你的愛心，大有快樂，大得安慰。因眾聖徒的心從你得了暢快。
For we have great joy and consolation in thy love, because the bowels of the saints are refreshed by thee, brother.

1:8    我雖然靠著基督能放膽吩咐你合宜的事。
Wherefore, though I might be much bold in Christ to enjoin thee that which is convenient,

1:9    然而像我這有年紀的保羅，現在又是為基督耶穌被囚的，寧可憑愛心求你。
Yet for love's sake I rather beseech thee, being such an one as Paul the aged, and now also a prisoner of Jesus Christ.

1:10    就是為我在捆鎖中所生的兒子阿尼西母（此名就是有益處的意思）求你。
I beseech thee for my son Onesimus, whom I have begotten in my bonds:

1:11    他從前與你沒有益處，但如今與你我都有益處。
Which in time past was to thee unprofitable, but now profitable to thee and to me:

1:12    我現在打發他親自回你那裡去。他是我心上的人。
Whom I have sent again: thou therefore receive him, that is, mine own bowels:

1:13    我本來有意將他留下，在我為福音所受的捆鎖中替你伺候我。
Whom I would have retained with me, that in thy stead he might have ministered unto me in the bonds of the gospel:

1:14    但不知道你的意思，我不願意這樣行，叫你的善行不是出於勉強，乃是出於甘心。
But without thy mind would I do nothing; that thy benefit should not be as it were of necessity, but willingly.

1:15    他暫時離開你，或者是叫你永遠得著他。
For perhaps he therefore departed for a season, that thou shouldest receive him for ever;

1:16    不再是奴僕，乃是高過奴僕，是親愛的兄弟，在我實在是如此，何況在你呢。這也不拘是按肉體說，是按主說。
Not now as a servant, but above a servant, a brother beloved, specially to me, but how much more unto thee, both in the flesh, and in the Lord?

1:17    你若以我為同伴，就收納他，如同收納我一樣。
If thou count me therefore a partner, receive him as myself.

1:18    他若虧負你，或欠你什麼，都歸在我的賬上。
If he hath wronged thee, or oweth thee ought, put that on mine account;

1:19    我必償還。這是我保羅親筆寫的。我並不用對你說，連你自己也虧欠於我。
I Paul have written it with mine own hand, I will repay it: albeit I do not say to thee how thou owest unto me even thine own self besides.

1:20    兄弟阿，望你使我在主裡因你得快樂。（或作益處）並望你使我的心在基督裡得暢快。
Yea, brother, let me have joy of thee in the Lord: refresh my bowels in the Lord.

1:21    我寫信給你，深信你必順服，知道你所要行的，必過於我所說的。
Having confidence in thy obedience I wrote unto thee, knowing that thou wilt also do more than I say.

1:22    此外你還要給我豫備住處，因為我盼望藉著你們的禱告，必蒙恩到你們那裡去。
But withal prepare me also a lodging: for I trust that through your prayers I shall be given unto you.

1:23    為基督耶穌與我同坐監的以巴弗問你安。
There salute thee Epaphras, my fellowprisoner in Christ Jesus;

1:24    與我同工的馬可，亞里達古，底馬，路加，也都問你安。
Marcus, Aristarchus, Demas, Lucas, my fellowlabourers.

1:25    願我們主耶穌基督的恩常在你的心裡。阿們。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit. Amen.


