
新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


1:1    神既在古時藉著眾先知，多次多方的曉諭列祖，
God, who at sundry times and in divers manners spake in time past unto the fathers by the prophets,

1:2    就在這末世，藉著他兒子曉諭我們，又早已立他為承受萬有的，也曾藉著他創造諸世界。
Hath in these last days spoken unto us by his Son, whom he hath appointed heir of all things, by whom also he made the worlds;

1:3    他是神榮耀所發的光輝，是神本體的真像，常用他權能的命令托住萬有，他洗淨了人的罪，就坐在高天至大者的右邊。
Who being the brightness of his glory, and the express image of his person, and upholding all things by the word of his power, when he had by himself purged our sins, sat down on the right hand of the Majesty on high;

1:4    他所承受的名，既比天使的名更尊貴，就遠超過天使。
Being made so much better than the angels, as he hath by inheritance obtained a more excellent name than they.

1:5    所有的天使，神從來對那一個說，你是我的兒子，我今日生你。又指著那一個說，我要作他的父，他要作我的子。
For unto which of the angels said he at any time, Thou art my Son, this day have I begotten thee? And again, I will be to him a Father, and he shall be to me a Son?

1:6    再者，神使長子到世上來的時候，（或作神再使長子到世上來的時候）就說，神的使者都要拜他。
And again, when he bringeth in the firstbegotten into the world, he saith, And let all the angels of God worship him.

1:7    論到使者，又說，神以風為使者，以火焰為僕役。
And of the angels he saith, Who maketh his angels spirits, and his ministers a flame of fire.

1:8    論到子卻說，神阿，你的寶座是永永遠遠的，你的國權是正直的。
But unto the Son he saith, Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: a sceptre of righteousness is the sceptre of thy kingdom.

1:9    你喜愛公義，恨惡罪惡。所以神就是你的神，用喜樂油膏你，勝過膏你的同伴。
Thou hast loved righteousness, and hated iniquity; therefore God, even thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.

1:10    又說，主阿，你起初立了地的根基，天也是你手所造的。
And, Thou, Lord, in the beginning hast laid the foundation of the earth; and the heavens are the works of thine hands:

1:11    天地都要滅沒，你卻要長存。天地都要像衣服漸漸舊了。
They shall perish; but thou remainest; and they all shall wax old as doth a garment;

1:12    你要將天地捲起來，像一件外衣，天地都改變了。惟有你永不改變，你的年數沒有窮盡。
And as a vesture shalt thou fold them up, and they shall be changed: but thou art the same, and thy years shall not fail.

1:13    所有的天使，神從來對那一個說，你坐在我的右邊，等我使你仇敵作你的腳凳。
But to which of the angels said he at any time, Sit on my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool?

1:14    天使豈不都是服役的靈，奉差遣為那將要承受救恩的人效力嗎。
Are they not all ministering spirits, sent forth to minister for them who shall be heirs of salvation?



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


2:1    所以我們當越發鄭重所聽見的道理，恐怕我們隨流失去。
Therefore we ought to give the more earnest heed to the things which we have heard, lest at any time we should let them slip.

2:2    那藉著天使所傳的話，既是確定的，凡干犯悖逆的，都受了該受的報應。
For if the word spoken by angels was stedfast, and every transgression and disobedience received a just recompence of reward;

2:3    我們若忽略這嗎大的救恩，怎能逃罪呢。這救恩起先主親自講的，後來是聽見的人給我們證實了。
How shall we escape, if we neglect so great salvation; which at the first began to be spoken by the Lord, and was confirmed unto us by them that heard him;

2:4    神又按自己的旨意，用神蹟奇事，和百般的異能，並聖靈的恩賜，同他們作見證。
God also bearing them witness, both with signs and wonders, and with divers miracles, and gifts of the Holy Ghost, according to his own will?

2:5    我們所說將來的世界，神原沒有交給天使管轄。
For unto the angels hath he not put in subjection the world to come, whereof we speak.

2:6    但有人在經上某處證明說，人算什麼，你竟顧念他，世人算什麼，你竟眷顧他。
But one in a certain place testified, saying, What is man, that thou art mindful of him? or the son of man, that thou visitest him?

2:7    你叫他比天使微小一點，（或作你叫他暫時比天使小）賜他榮耀尊貴為冠冕，並將你手所造的都派他管理。
Thou madest him a little lower than the angels; thou crownedst him with glory and honour, and didst set him over the works of thy hands:

2:8    叫萬物都服在他的腳下。既叫萬物都服他，就沒有剩下一樣不服他的。只是如今我們還不見萬物都服他。
Thou hast put all things in subjection under his feet. For in that he put all in subjection under him, he left nothing that is not put under him. But now we see not yet all things put under him.

2:9    惟獨見那成為比天使小一點的耶穌，（或作惟獨見耶穌暫時比天使小）因為受死的苦，就得了尊貴榮耀為冠冕，叫他因著神的恩，為人人嚐了死味。
But we see Jesus, who was made a little lower than the angels for the suffering of death, crowned with glory and honour; that he by the grace of God should taste death for every man.

2:10    原來那為萬物所屬，為萬物所本的，要領許多的兒子進榮耀裡去，使救他們的元帥，因受苦難得以完全，本是合宜的。
For it became him, for whom are all things, and by whom are all things, in bringing many sons unto glory, to make the captain of their salvation perfect through sufferings.

2:11    因那使人成聖的，和那些得以成聖的，都是出於一。所以他稱他們為弟兄，也不以為恥，
For both he that sanctifieth and they who are sanctified are all of one: for which cause he is not ashamed to call them brethren,

2:12    說，我要將你的名傳與我的弟兄，在會中我要頌楊你。
Saying, I will declare thy name unto my brethren, in the midst of the church will I sing praise unto thee.

2:13    又說，我要倚賴他。又說，看哪，我與神所給我的兒女。
And again, I will put my trust in him. And again, Behold I and the children which God hath given me.

2:14    兒女既同有血肉之體，他也照樣親自成了血肉之體。特要藉著死，敗壞那掌死權的，就是魔鬼。
Forasmuch then as the children are partakers of flesh and blood, he also himself likewise took part of the same; that through death he might destroy him that had the power of death, that is, the devil;

2:15    並要釋放那些一生因怕死而為奴僕的人。
And deliver them who through fear of death were all their lifetime subject to bondage.

2:16    他並不救拔天使，乃是救拔亞伯拉罕的後裔。
For verily he took not on him the nature of angels; but he took on him the seed of Abraham.

2:17    所以他凡事該與他的弟兄相同，為要在神的事上，成為慈悲忠信的大祭司，為百姓的罪獻上挽回祭。
Wherefore in all things it behoved him to be made like unto his brethren, that he might be a merciful and faithful high priest in things pertaining to God, to make reconciliation for the sins of the people.

2:18    他自己既然被試探而受苦，就能搭救被試探的人。
For in that he himself hath suffered being tempted, he is able to succour them that are tempted.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


3:1    同蒙天召的聖潔弟兄阿，你們應當思想，我們所認為使者，為大祭司的耶穌。
Wherefore, holy brethren, partakers of the heavenly calling, consider the Apostle and High Priest of our profession, Christ Jesus;

3:2    他為那設立他的盡忠，如同摩西在神的全家盡忠一樣。
Who was faithful to him that appointed him, as also Moses was faithful in all his house.

3:3    他比摩西算是更配多得榮耀，好像建造房屋的比房屋更尊榮。
For this man was counted worthy of more glory than Moses, inasmuch as he who hath builded the house hath more honour than the house.

3:4    因為房屋都必有人建造。但建造萬物的就是神。
For every house is builded by some man; but he that built all things is God.

3:5    摩西為僕人，在神的全家誠然盡忠，為要證明將來必傳說的事。
And Moses verily was faithful in all his house, as a servant, for a testimony of those things which were to be spoken after;

3:6    但基督為兒子，治理神的家。我們若將可誇的盼望和膽量，堅持到底，便是他的家了。
But Christ as a son over his own house; whose house are we, if we hold fast the confidence and the rejoicing of the hope firm unto the end.

3:7    聖靈有話說，你們今日若聽他的話，
Wherefore (as the Holy Ghost saith, To day if ye will hear his voice,

3:8    就不可硬著心，像在曠野惹他發怒，試探他的時候一樣。
Harden not your hearts, as in the provocation, in the day of temptation in the wilderness:

3:9    在那裡，你們的祖宗試我探我，並且觀看我的作為，有四十年之久。
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my works forty years.

3:10    所以我厭煩那世代的人，說，他們心裡常常迷糊，竟不曉得我的作為。
Wherefore I was grieved with that generation, and said, They do alway err in their heart; and they have not known my ways.

3:11    我就在怒中起誓說，他們斷不可進入我的安息。
So I sware in my wrath, They shall not enter into my rest.)

3:12    弟兄們，你們要謹慎，免得你們中間，或有人存著不信的噁心，把永生神離棄了。
Take heed, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil heart of unbelief, in departing from the living God.

3:13    總要趁著還有今日，天天彼此相勸，免得你們中間，有人被罪迷惑，心裡就剛硬了。
But exhort one another daily, while it is called To day; lest any of you be hardened through the deceitfulness of sin.

3:14    我們若將起初確實的信心，堅持到底，就在基督裡有分了。
For we are made partakers of Christ, if we hold the beginning of our confidence stedfast unto the end;

3:15    經上說，你們今日若聽他的話，就不可硬著心，像惹他發怒的日子一樣。
While it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts, as in the provocation.

3:16    那時聽見他話惹他發怒的是誰呢。豈不是跟著摩西從埃及出來的眾人嗎。
For some, when they had heard, did provoke: howbeit not all that came out of Egypt by Moses.

3:17    神四十年之久，又厭煩誰呢。豈不是那些犯罪屍首倒在曠野的人嗎。
But with whom was he grieved forty years? was it not with them that had sinned, whose carcases fell in the wilderness?

3:18    又向誰起誓，不容他們進入他的安息呢。豈不是向那些不信從的人嗎。
And to whom sware he that they should not enter into his rest, but to them that believed not?

3:19    這樣看來，他們不能進入安息，是因為不信的緣故了。
So we see that they could not enter in because of unbelief.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


4:1    我們既蒙留下有進入他安息的應許，就當畏懼，免得我們中間，（我們原文作你們）或有人似乎是趕不上了。
Let us therefore fear, lest, a promise being left us of entering into his rest, any of you should seem to come short of it.

4:2    因為有福音傳給我們，像傳給他們一樣。只是所聽見的道與他們無益，因為他們沒有信心與所聽見的道調和。
For unto us was the gospel preached, as well as unto them: but the word preached did not profit them, not being mixed with faith in them that heard it.

4:3    但我們已經相信的人，得以進入那安息，正如神所說，我在怒中起誓說，他們斷不可進入我的安息。其實造物之工，從創世以來已經成全了。
For we which have believed do enter into rest, as he said, As I have sworn in my wrath, if they shall enter into my rest: although the works were finished from the foundation of the world.

4:4    論到第七日，有一處說，到第七日神就歇了他一切的工。
For he spake in a certain place of the seventh day on this wise, And God did rest the seventh day from all his works.

4:5    又有一處說，他們斷不可進入我的安息。
And in this place again, If they shall enter into my rest.

4:6    既有必進安息的人，那先前聽見福音的，因為不信從，不得進去。
Seeing therefore it remaineth that some must enter therein, and they to whom it was first preached entered not in because of unbelief:

4:7    所以過了多年，就在大衛的書上，又限定一日，如以上所引的說，你們今日若聽他的話，就不可硬著心。
Again, he limiteth a certain day, saying in David, To day, after so long a time; as it is said, To day if ye will hear his voice, harden not your hearts.

4:8    若是約書亞已叫他們享了安息，後來神就不再題別的日子了。
For if Jesus had given them rest, then would he not afterward have spoken of another day.

4:9    這樣看來，必另有一安息日的安息，為神的子民存留。
There remaineth therefore a rest to the people of God.

4:10    因為那進入安息的，乃是歇了自己的工，正如神歇了他的工一樣。
For he that is entered into his rest, he also hath ceased from his own works, as God did from his.

4:11    所以我們務必竭力進入那安息，免得有人學那不信從的樣子跌倒了。
Let us labour therefore to enter into that rest, lest any man fall after the same example of unbelief.

4:12    神的道是活潑的，是有功效的，比一切兩刃的劍更快，甚至魂與靈，骨節與骨髓，都能刺入剖開，連心中的思念和主意，都能辨明。
For the word of God is quick, and powerful, and sharper than any twoedged sword, piercing even to the dividing asunder of soul and spirit, and of the joints and marrow, and is a discerner of the thoughts and intents of the heart.

4:13    並且被造的，沒有一樣在他面前不顯然的。原來萬物，在那與我們有關係的主眼前，都是赤露敞開的。
Neither is there any creature that is not manifest in his sight: but all things are naked and opened unto the eyes of him with whom we have to do.

4:14    我們既然有一位已經升入高天尊榮的大祭司，就是神的兒子耶穌，便當持定所承認的道。
Seeing then that we have a great high priest, that is passed into the heavens, Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our profession.

4:15    因我們的大祭司，並非不能體恤我們的軟弱。他也曾凡事受過試探，與我們一樣。只是他沒有犯罪。
For we have not an high priest which cannot be touched with the feeling of our infirmities; but was in all points tempted like as we are, yet without sin.

4:16    所以我們只管坦然無懼的，來到施恩的寶座前，為要得憐恤，蒙恩惠作隨時的幫助。
Let us therefore come boldly unto the throne of grace, that we may obtain mercy, and find grace to help in time of need.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


5:1    凡從人間挑選的大祭司，是奉派替人辨理屬神的事，為要獻上禮物，和贖罪祭。（或作要為罪獻上禮物和祭物）
For every high priest taken from among men is ordained for men in things pertaining to God, that he may offer both gifts and sacrifices for sins:

5:2    他能體諒那愚蒙的，和失迷的人，因為他自己也是被軟弱所困。
Who can have compassion on the ignorant, and on them that are out of the way; for that he himself also is compassed with infirmity.

5:3    故此他理當為百姓和自己獻祭贖罪。
And by reason hereof he ought, as for the people, so also for himself, to offer for sins.

5:4    這大祭司的尊榮，沒有人自取，惟要蒙神所召，像亞倫一樣。
And no man taketh this honour unto himself, but he that is called of God, as was Aaron.

5:5    如此，基督也不是自取榮耀作大祭司，乃是在乎向他說，你是我的兒子，我今日生你。的那一位。
So also Christ glorified not himself to be made an high priest; but he that said unto him, Thou art my Son, to day have I begotten thee.

5:6    就如經上又有一處說，你是照著麥基洗德的等次永遠為祭司。
As he saith also in another place, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.

5:7    基督在肉體的時候，既大聲哀哭，流淚禱告懇求那能救他免死的主，就因他的虔誠，蒙了應允。
Who in the days of his flesh, when he had offered up prayers and supplications with strong crying and tears unto him that was able to save him from death, and was heard in that he feared;

5:8    他雖然為兒子，還是因所受的苦難學了順從。
Though he were a Son, yet learned he obedience by the things which he suffered;

5:9    他既得以完全，就為凡順從的的人，成了永遠得救的根源。
And being made perfect, he became the author of eternal salvation unto all them that obey him;

5:10    並蒙神照著麥基洗德的等次稱他為大祭司。
Called of God an high priest after the order of Melchisedec.

5:11    論到麥基洗德，我們有好些話，並且難以解明，因為你們聽不進去。
Of whom we have many things to say, and hard to be uttered, seeing ye are dull of hearing.

5:12    看你們學習的工夫，本該作師傅，誰知還得有人將神聖言小學的開端，另教導你們。並且成了那必須吃奶，不能吃乾糧的人。
For when for the time ye ought to be teachers, ye have need that one teach you again which be the first principles of the oracles of God; and are become such as have need of milk, and not of strong meat.

5:13    凡只能吃奶的，都不熟練仁義的道理。因為他是嬰孩。
For every one that useth milk is unskilful in the word of righteousness: for he is a babe.

5:14    惟獨長大成人的，才能吃乾糧，他們的心竅，習練得通達，就能分辨好歹了。
But strong meat belongeth to them that are of full age, even those who by reason of use have their senses exercised to discern both good and evil.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


6:1    所以我們應當離開基督道理的開端，竭力進到完全的地步。不必再立根基，就如那懊悔死行，信靠神，
Therefore leaving the principles of the doctrine of Christ, let us go on unto perfection; not laying again the foundation of repentance from dead works, and of faith toward God,

6:2    各樣洗禮，按手之禮，死人復活，以及永遠審判，各等教訓。
Of the doctrine of baptisms, and of laying on of hands, and of resurrection of the dead, and of eternal judgment.

6:3    神若許我們，我們必如此行。
And this will we do, if God permit.

6:4    論到那些已經蒙了光照，嘗過天恩的滋味，又於聖靈有分，
For it is impossible for those who were once enlightened, and have tasted of the heavenly gift, and were made partakers of the Holy Ghost,

6:5    並嘗過神善道的滋味，覺悟來世權能的人，
And have tasted the good word of God, and the powers of the world to come,

6:6    若是離棄道理，就不能叫他們從新懊悔了。因為他們把神的兒子重釘十字架，明明的羞辱他。
If they shall fall away, to renew them again unto repentance; seeing they crucify to themselves the Son of God afresh, and put him to an open shame.

6:7    就如一塊田地，吃過屢次下的雨水，生長菜蔬合乎耕種的人用，就從神得福。
For the earth which drinketh in the rain that cometh oft upon it, and bringeth forth herbs meet for them by whom it is dressed, receiveth blessing from God:

6:8    若長荊棘和疾？？，必被廢棄，近於咒詛，結局就是焚燒。
But that which beareth thorns and briers is rejected, and is nigh unto cursing; whose end is to be burned.

6:9    親愛的弟兄們，我們雖是這樣說，卻深信你們的行為強過這些，而且近乎得救。
But, beloved, we are persuaded better things of you, and things that accompany salvation, though we thus speak.

6:10    因為神並非不公義，竟忘記你們所作的工，和你們為他名所顯的愛心，就是先前伺候聖徒，如今還是伺候。
For God is not unrighteous to forget your work and labour of love, which ye have shewed toward his name, in that ye have ministered to the saints, and do minister.

6:11    我們願你們各人都顯出這樣的殷勤，使你們有滿足的指望，一直到底。
And we desire that every one of you do shew the same diligence to the full assurance of hope unto the end:

6:12    並且不懈怠。總要效法那些憑信心和忍耐承受應許的人。
That ye be not slothful, but followers of them who through faith and patience inherit the promises.

6:13    當初神應許亞伯拉罕的時候，因為沒有比自己更大可以指著起誓的，就指著自己起誓說，
For when God made promise to Abraham, because he could swear by no greater, he sware by himself,

6:14    論福，我必賜大福給你。論子孫，我必叫你的子孫多起來。
Saying, Surely blessing I will bless thee, and multiplying I will multiply thee.

6:15    這樣，亞伯拉罕既恆久忍耐，就得了所應許的。
And so, after he had patiently endured, he obtained the promise.

6:16    人都是指著比自己大的起誓。並且以起誓為實據，了結各樣的爭論
For men verily swear by the greater: and an oath for confirmation is to them an end of all strife.

6:17    照樣，神願意為那承受應許的人，格外顯明他的旨意是不更改的，就起誓為證。
Wherein God, willing more abundantly to shew unto the heirs of promise the immutability of his counsel, confirmed it by an oath:

6:18    藉這兩件不更改的事，神決不能說謊，好叫我們這逃往避難所，持定擺在我們前頭指望的人，可以大得勉勵。
That by two immutable things, in which it was impossible for God to lie, we might have a strong consolation, who have fled for refuge to lay hold upon the hope set before us:

6:19    我們有這指望如同靈魂的錨，又堅固又牢靠，且通入幔內。
Which hope we have as an anchor of the soul, both sure and stedfast, and which entereth into that within the veil;

6:20    作先鋒的耶穌，既照著麥基洗德的等次，成了永遠的大祭司，就為我們進入幔內。
Whither the forerunner is for us entered, even Jesus, made an high priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


7:1    這麥基洗德，就是撒冷王，又是至高神的祭司，本是長遠為祭司的。他當亞伯拉罕殺敗諸王回來的時候，就迎接他，給他祝福。
For this Melchisedec, king of Salem, priest of the most high God, who met Abraham returning from the slaughter of the kings, and blessed him;

7:2    亞伯拉罕也將自己所得來的取十分之一給他。他頭一個名翻出來，就是仁義王，他又名撒冷王，就是平安王的意思。
To whom also Abraham gave a tenth part of all; first being by interpretation King of righteousness, and after that also King of Salem, which is, King of peace;

7:3    他無父，無母，無族譜，無生之始，無命之終，乃是與神的兒子相似。
Without father, without mother, without descent, having neither beginning of days, nor end of life; but made like unto the Son of God; abideth a priest continually.

7:4    你們想一想，先祖亞伯拉罕，將自己所擄來上等之物取十分之一給他，這人是何等尊貴呢。
Now consider how great this man was, unto whom even the patriarch Abraham gave the tenth of the spoils.

7:5    那是祭司職任的利未子孫，領命照例向百姓取十分之一，這百姓是自己的弟兄，雖是從亞伯拉罕身中生的，（身原文作腰），還是照例取十分之一
And verily they that are of the sons of Levi, who receive the office of the priesthood, have a commandment to take tithes of the people according to the law, that is, of their brethren, though they come out of the loins of Abraham:

7:6    獨有麥基洗德，不與他們同譜，倒收納亞伯拉罕的十分之一，為那蒙應許的亞伯拉罕祝福。
But he whose descent is not counted from them received tithes of Abraham, and blessed him that had the promises.

7:7    從來位分大的給位分小的祝福，這是駁不倒的理。
And without all contradiction the less is blessed of the better.

7:8    在這裡收十分之一的都是必死的人。但在那裡收十分之一的，有為他作見證的說，他是活的。
And here men that die receive tithes; but there he receiveth them, of whom it is witnessed that he liveth.

7:9    並且可說，那受十分之一的利未，也是藉著亞伯拉罕納了十分之一。
And as I may so say, Levi also, who receiveth tithes, payed tithes in Abraham.

7:10    因為麥基洗德迎接亞伯拉罕的時候，利未已經在他先祖的身中。（身原文作腰）
For he was yet in the loins of his father, when Melchisedec met him.

7:11    從前百姓在利未人祭司職任以下受律法，倘若藉這職任能得完全，又何用另外興起一位祭司，照麥基洗德的等次，不照亞倫的等次呢。
If therefore perfection were by the Levitical priesthood, (for under it the people received the law,) what further need was there that another priest should rise after the order of Melchisedec, and not be called after the order of Aaron?

7:12    祭司的職任既已更改，律法也必須更改。
For the priesthood being changed, there is made of necessity a change also of the law.

7:13    因為這話所指的人，本屬別的支派，那支派裡從來沒有一人伺候祭壇。
For he of whom these things are spoken pertaineth to another tribe, of which no man gave attendance at the altar.

7:14    我們的主分明是從猶大出來的。但這支派，摩西並沒有題到祭司。
For it is evident that our Lord sprang out of Juda; of which tribe Moses spake nothing concerning priesthood.

7:15    倘若照麥基洗德的樣式，另外興起一位祭司來，我的話更是顯而易見的了。
And it is yet far more evident: for that after the similitude of Melchisedec there ariseth another priest,

7:16    他成為祭司，並不是照屬肉體的條例，乃是照無窮之生命的大能。（無窮原文作不能毀壞）。
Who is made, not after the law of a carnal commandment, but after the power of an endless life.

7:17    因為有給他作見證的說，你是照著麥基洗德的等次永遠為祭司。
For he testifieth, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec.

7:18    先前的條例，因軟弱無益，所以廢掉了。
For there is verily a disannulling of the commandment going before for the weakness and unprofitableness thereof.



7:19    （律法原來一無所成）就引進了更美的指望，靠這指望我們便可以進到神面前。
For the law made nothing perfect, but the bringing in of a better hope did; by the which we draw nigh unto God.

7:20    再者，耶穌為祭司，並不是不起誓立的。
And inasmuch as not without an oath he was made priest:

7:21    至於那些祭司，原不是起誓立的，只有耶穌是起誓立的。因為那立他的對他說，主起了誓決不後悔，你是永遠為祭司。
(For those priests were made without an oath; but this with an oath by him that said unto him, The Lord sware and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchisedec:)

7:22    既是起誓立的，耶穌就作了更美之約的中保。
By so much was Jesus made a surety of a better testament.

7:23    那些成為祭司的，數目本來多，是因為有死阻隔不能長久。
And they truly were many priests, because they were not suffered to continue by reason of death:

7:24    這位既是永遠長存的，他祭司的職任，就長久不更換。
But this man, because he continueth ever, hath an unchangeable priesthood.

7:25    凡靠著他進到神面前的人，他都能拯救到底。因為他是長遠活著，替他們祈求。
Wherefore he is able also to save them to the uttermost that come unto God by him, seeing he ever liveth to make intercession for them.

7:26    像這樣聖潔，無邪惡，無玷汙，遠離罪人，高過諸天的大祭司，原是與我們合宜的。
For such an high priest became us, who is holy, harmless, undefiled, separate from sinners, and made higher than the heavens;

7:27    他不像那些大祭司，每日必須先為自己的罪，後為百姓的罪獻祭，因為他只一次將自己獻上，就把這事成全了。
Who needeth not daily, as those high priests, to offer up sacrifice, first for his own sins, and then for the people's: for this he did once, when he offered up himself.

7:28    律法本是立軟弱的人為大祭司。但在律法以後起誓的話，是立兒子為大祭司，乃是成全到永遠的。
For the law maketh men high priests which have infirmity; but the word of the oath, which was since the law, maketh the Son, who is consecrated for evermore.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


8:1    我們所講的事，其中第一要緊的，就是我們有這樣的大祭司，已經坐在天上至大者寶座的右邊，
Now of the things which we have spoken this is the sum: We have such an high priest, who is set on the right hand of the throne of the Majesty in the heavens;

8:2    在聖所，就是真帳幕裡，作執事。這帳幕是主所支的，不是人所支的。
A minister of the sanctuary, and of the true tabernacle, which the Lord pitched, and not man.

8:3    凡大祭司都是為獻禮物和祭物設立的。所以這位大祭司也必須有所獻的。
For every high priest is ordained to offer gifts and sacrifices: wherefore it is of necessity that this man have somewhat also to offer.

8:4    他若在地上，必不得為祭司，因為已經有照律法獻禮物的祭司。
For if he were on earth, he should not be a priest, seeing that there are priests that offer gifts according to the law:

8:5    他們供奉的事，本是天上事的形狀和影像，正如摩西將要造帳幕的時候，蒙神警戒他，說，你要謹慎，作各樣的物件，都要照著在山上指示你的樣式。
Who serve unto the example and shadow of heavenly things, as Moses was admonished of God when he was about to make the tabernacle: for, See, saith he, that thou make all things according to the pattern shewed to thee in the mount.

8:6    如今耶穌所得的職任是更美的，正如他作更美之約的中保。這約原是憑更美之應許立的。
But now hath he obtained a more excellent ministry, by how much also he is the mediator of a better covenant, which was established upon better promises.

8:7    那前約若沒有瑕疵，就無處尋求後約了。
For if that first covenant had been faultless, then should no place have been sought for the second.

8:8    所以主指責他的百姓說，（或作所以主指前約的缺欠說）日子將到，我要與以色列家，和猶大家，另立新約。
For finding fault with them, he saith, Behold, the days come, saith the Lord, when I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and with the house of Judah:

8:9    不像我拉著他們祖宗的手，領他們出埃及的時候，與他們所立的約。因為他們不恆心守我的約，我也不理他們。這是主說的。
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day when I took them by the hand to lead them out of the land of Egypt; because they continued not in my covenant, and I regarded them not, saith the Lord.

8:10    主又說，那些日子以後，我與以色列家所立的約乃是這樣。我要將我的律法放在他們裡面，寫在他們心上，我要作他們的神，他們要作我的子民。
For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, saith the Lord; I will put my laws into their mind, and write them in their hearts: and I will be to them a God, and they shall be to me a people:

8:11    他們不用各人教導自己的鄉鄰，和自己的弟兄，說，你該認識主。因為他們從最小的到至大的，都必認識我。
And they shall not teach every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the Lord: for all shall know me, from the least to the greatest.

8:12    我要寬恕他們的不義，不再記念他們的罪愆。
For I will be merciful to their unrighteousness, and their sins and their iniquities will I remember no more.

8:13    既說新約，就以前約為舊了。但那漸舊漸衰的，就必快歸無有了。
In that he saith, A new covenant, he hath made the first old. Now that which decayeth and waxeth old is ready to vanish away.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


9:1    原來前約有禮拜的條例，和屬世界的聖幕。
Then verily the first covenant had also ordinances of divine service, and a worldly sanctuary.

9:2    因為有豫備的帳幕，頭一層叫作聖所。裡面有燈臺，桌子，和陳設餅。
For there was a tabernacle made; the first, wherein was the candlestick, and the table, and the shewbread; which is called the sanctuary.

9:3    第二幔子後，又有一層帳幕，叫作至聖所。
And after the second veil, the tabernacle which is called the Holiest of all;

9:4    有金香爐，（爐或作壇）有包金的約櫃，櫃裡有盛嗎哪的金罐，和亞倫發過芽的杖，並兩塊約版。
Which had the golden censer, and the ark of the covenant overlaid round about with gold, wherein was the golden pot that had manna, and Aaron's rod that budded, and the tables of the covenant;

9:5    櫃上面有榮耀基路伯的影芍著施恩座。（施恩原文作蔽罪）這幾件我現在不能一一細說。
And over it the cherubims of glory shadowing the mercyseat; of which we cannot now speak particularly.

9:6    這些物件既如此豫備齊了，眾祭司就常進頭一層帳幕，行拜神的禮。
Now when these things were thus ordained, the priests went always into the first tabernacle, accomplishing the service of God.

9:7    至於第二層帳幕，惟有大祭司一年一次獨自進去，沒有不帶著血，為自己和百姓的過錯獻上。
But into the second went the high priest alone once every year, not without blood, which he offered for himself, and for the errors of the people:

9:8    聖靈用此指明，頭一層帳幕仍存的時候，進入至聖所的路還未顯明。
The Holy Ghost this signifying, that the way into the holiest of all was not yet made manifest, while as the first tabernacle was yet standing:

9:9    那頭一層帳幕作現今的一個表樣，所獻上的禮物和祭物，就著良心說，都不能叫禮拜的人得以完全。
Which was a figure for the time then present, in which were offered both gifts and sacrifices, that could not make him that did the service perfect, as pertaining to the conscience;

9:10    這些事連那飲食和諸般洗濯的規矩，都不過是屬肉體的條例，命定到振興的時候為止。
Which stood only in meats and drinks, and divers washings, and carnal ordinances, imposed on them until the time of reformation.

9:11    但現在基督已經來到，作了將來美事的大祭司，經過那更大更全備的帳幕，不是人手所造也不是屬乎這世界的。
But Christ being come an high priest of good things to come, by a greater and more perfect tabernacle, not made with hands, that is to say, not of this building;

9:12    並且不用山羊和牛犢的血，乃用自己的血，只一次進入聖所，成了永遠贖罪的事。
Neither by the blood of goats and calves, but by his own blood he entered in once into the holy place, having obtained eternal redemption for us.

9:13    若山羊和公牛的血，並母牛犢的灰灑在不潔的人身上，尚且叫人成聖，身體潔淨。
For if the blood of bulls and of goats, and the ashes of an heifer sprinkling the unclean, sanctifieth to the purifying of the flesh:

9:14    何況基督藉著永遠的靈，將自己無瑕無疵獻給神，他的血豈不更能洗淨你們的心。（原文作良心）除去你們的死行，使你們事奉那永生神嗎。
How much more shall the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without spot to God, purge your conscience from dead works to serve the living God?

9:15    為此他作了新約的中保。既然受死贖了人在前約之時所犯的罪過，便叫蒙召之人得著所應許永遠的產業。
And for this cause he is the mediator of the new testament, that by means of death, for the redemption of the transgressions that were under the first testament, they which are called might receive the promise of eternal inheritance.

9:16    凡有遺命，必須等到留遺命的人死了。（遺命原文與約字同）
For where a testament is, there must also of necessity be the death of the testator.



9:17    因為人死了，遺命才有效力，若留遺命的尚在，那遺命還有用處嗎。
For a testament is of force after men are dead: otherwise it is of no strength at all while the testator liveth.

9:18    所以前約也不是不用血立的。
Whereupon neither the first testament was dedicated without blood.

9:19    因為摩西當日照著律法，將各樣誡命傳給眾百姓，就拿硃紅色絨和牛膝草，把牛犢山羊的血和水，灑在書上，又灑在眾百姓身上，說，
For when Moses had spoken every precept to all the people according to the law, he took the blood of calves and of goats, with water, and scarlet wool, and hyssop, and sprinkled both the book, and all the people,

9:20    這血就是神與你們立約的憑據。
Saying, This is the blood of the testament which God hath enjoined unto you.

9:21    他又照樣把血灑在帳幕，和各樣器皿上。
Moreover he sprinkled with blood both the tabernacle, and all the vessels of the ministry.

9:22    按著律法，凡物差不多都是用血潔淨的，若不流血，罪就不得赦免了。
And almost all things are by the law purged with blood; and without shedding of blood is no remission.

9:23    照著天上樣式作的物件，必須用這些祭物去潔淨。但那天上的本物，自然當用更美的祭物去潔淨。
It was therefore necessary that the patterns of things in the heavens should be purified with these; but the heavenly things themselves with better sacrifices than these.

9:24    因為基督並不是進了人手所造的聖所，（這不過是真聖所的影像）乃是進了天堂，如今為我們顯在神面前。
For Christ is not entered into the holy places made with hands, which are the figures of the true; but into heaven itself, now to appear in the presence of God for us:

9:25    也不是多次將自己獻上，像那大祭司每年帶著牛羊血進入聖所。（牛羊的血原文作不是自己的血）
Nor yet that he should offer himself often, as the high priest entereth into the holy place every year with blood of others;

9:26    如果這樣，他從創世以來，就必多次受苦了。但如今在這末世顯現一次，把自己獻為祭，好除掉罪。
For then must he often have suffered since the foundation of the world: but now once in the end of the world hath he appeared to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself.

9:27    按著定命，人人都有一死，死後且有審判。
And as it is appointed unto men once to die, but after this the judgment:

9:28    這樣，基督既然一次被獻，擔當了多人的罪，將來要向那等候他的人第二次顯現，並與罪無關，乃是為拯救他們。
So Christ was once offered to bear the sins of many; and unto them that look for him shall he appear the second time without sin unto salvation.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


10:1    律法既是將來美事的影兒，不是本物的真像，總不能藉著每年常獻一樣的祭物，叫那近前來的人得以完全。
For the law having a shadow of good things to come, and not the very image of the things, can never with those sacrifices which they offered year by year continually make the comers thereunto perfect.

10:2    若不然，獻祭的事豈不早已止住了嗎。因為禮拜的人，良心既被潔淨，就不再覺得有罪了。
For then would they not have ceased to be offered? because that the worshippers once purged should have had no more conscience of sins.

10:3    但這些祭物是叫人每年想起罪來。
But in those sacrifices there is a remembrance again made of sins every year.

10:4    因為公牛和山羊的血，斷不能除罪。
For it is not possible that the blood of bulls and of goats should take away sins.

10:5    所以基督到世上來的時候，就說，神阿祭物和禮物是你不願意的，你曾給我豫備了身體。
Wherefore when he cometh into the world, he saith, Sacrifice and offering thou wouldest not, but a body hast thou prepared me:

10:6    燔祭和贖罪祭是你不喜歡的。
In burnt offerings and sacrifices for sin thou hast had no pleasure.

10:7    那時我說，神阿，我來了為要照你的旨意行。我的事在經卷上已經記載了。
Then said I, Lo, I come (in the volume of the book it is written of me,) to do thy will, O God.

10:8    以上說，祭物和禮物，燔祭和贖罪祭，是你不願意的，也是你不喜歡的，（這都是按著律法獻的）。
Above when he said, Sacrifice and offering and burnt offerings and offering for sin thou wouldest not, neither hadst pleasure therein; which are offered by the law;

10:9    後又說我來了為要照你的旨意行。可見他是除去在先的，為要立定在後的。
Then said he, Lo, I come to do thy will, O God. He taketh away the first, that he may establish the second.

10:10    我們憑這旨意，靠耶穌基督只一次獻上他的身體，就得以成聖。
By the which will we are sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all.

10:11    凡祭司天天站著事奉神，履次獻上一樣的祭物。這祭物永不能除罪。
And every priest standeth daily ministering and offering oftentimes the same sacrifices, which can never take away sins:

10:12    但基督獻了一次永遠的贖罪祭，就在神的右邊坐下了。
But this man, after he had offered one sacrifice for sins for ever, sat down on the right hand of God;

10:13    從此等候他仇敵成了他的腳凳。
From henceforth expecting till his enemies be made his footstool.

10:14    因為他一次獻祭，便叫那得以成聖的人永遠完全。
For by one offering he hath perfected for ever them that are sanctified.

10:15    聖靈也對我們作見證。因為他既已說過，
Whereof the Holy Ghost also is a witness to us: for after that he had said before,

10:16    主說，那些日子以後，我與他們所立的約乃是這樣。我要將我的律法寫在他們心上，又要放在他們的裡面。
This is the covenant that I will make with them after those days, saith the Lord, I will put my laws into their hearts, and in their minds will I write them;

10:17    以後就說，我不再記念他們的罪愆，和他們的過犯。
And their sins and iniquities will I remember no more.

10:18    這些罪過既已赦免，就不用再為罪獻祭了。
Now where remission of these is, there is no more offering for sin.

10:19    弟兄們，我們既因耶穌的血，得以坦然進入至聖所，
Having therefore, brethren, boldness to enter into the holiest by the blood of Jesus,

10:20    是藉著他給我們開了一條又新又活的路從幔子經過，這幔子就是他的身體。
By a new and living way, which he hath consecrated for us, through the veil, that is to say, his flesh;

10:21    又有一位大祭司治理神的家。
And having an high priest over the house of God;

10:22    並我們心中天良的虧欠已經灑去，身體用清水洗淨了，就當存著誠心，和充足的信心，來到神面前。
Let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, having our hearts sprinkled from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water.

10:23    也要堅守我們所承認的指望，不至搖動。因為那應許我們的是信實的。
Let us hold fast the profession of our faith without wavering; (for he is faithful that promised;)

10:24    又要彼此相顧，激發愛心，勉勵行善。
And let us consider one another to provoke unto love and to good works:

10:25    你們不可停止聚會，好像那些停止慣了的人，倒要彼此勸勉。既知道（原文作看見）那日子臨近，就更當如此。
Not forsaking the assembling of ourselves together, as the manner of some is; but exhorting one another: and so much the more, as ye see the day approaching.

10:26    因為我們得知真道以後，若故意犯罪，贖罪的祭就再沒有了。
For if we sin wilfully after that we have received the knowledge of the truth, there remaineth no more sacrifice for sins,

10:27    惟有戰懼等候審判和那燒滅眾人的烈火。
But a certain fearful looking for of judgment and fiery indignation, which shall devour the adversaries.

10:28    人干犯摩西的律法，憑兩三個見證人，尚且不得憐恤而死。
He that despised Moses' law died without mercy under two or three witnesses:



10:29    何況人踐踏神的兒子，將那使他成聖之約的血當作平常，又褻慢施恩的聖靈，你們想，他要受的刑罰該怎樣加重呢。
Of how much sorer punishment, suppose ye, shall he be thought worthy, who hath trodden under foot the Son of God, and hath counted the blood of the covenant, wherewith he was sanctified, an unholy thing, and hath done despite unto the Spirit of grace?

10:30    因為我們知道誰說，伸冤在我，我必報應。又說，主要審判他的百姓
For we know him that hath said, Vengeance belongeth unto me, I will recompense, saith the Lord. And again, The Lord shall judge his people.

10:31    落在永生神的手裡真是可怕的。
It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God.

10:32    你們要追念往日，蒙了光照以後，所忍受大爭戰的各樣苦難。
But call to remembrance the former days, in which, after ye were illuminated, ye endured a great fight of afflictions;

10:33    一面被毀謗，遭患難，成了戲景，叫眾人觀看。一面陪伴那些受這樣苦難的人。
Partly, whilst ye were made a gazingstock both by reproaches and afflictions; and partly, whilst ye became companions of them that were so used.

10:34    因為你們體恤了那些被捆鎖的人，並且你們的家業被人搶去，也甘心忍受，知道自己有更美常存的家業。
For ye had compassion of me in my bonds, and took joyfully the spoiling of your goods, knowing in yourselves that ye have in heaven a better and an enduring substance.

10:35    所以你們不可丟棄勇敢的心，存這樣的心必得大賞賜。
Cast not away therefore your confidence, which hath great recompence of reward.

10:36    你們必須忍耐，使你們行完了神的旨意，就可以得著所應許的。
For ye have need of patience, that, after ye have done the will of God, ye might receive the promise.

10:37    因為還有一點點時候，那要來的就來，並不遲延。
For yet a little while, and he that shall come will come, and will not tarry.

10:38    只是義人必因信得生。（義人有古卷作我的義人）他若退後，我心裡就不喜歡他。
Now the just shall live by faith: but if any man draw back, my soul shall have no pleasure in him.

10:39    我們卻不是退後入沉淪的那等人，乃是有信心以致靈魂得救的人。
But we are not of them who draw back unto perdition; but of them that believe to the saving of the soul.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


11:1    信就是所望之事的實底，是未見之事的確據。
Now faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen.

11:2    古人在這信上得了美好的證據。
For by it the elders obtained a good report.

11:3    我們因著信，就知道諸世界是藉神話造成的。這樣，所看見的，並不是從顯然之物造出來的。
Through faith we understand that the worlds were framed by the word of God, so that things which are seen were not made of things which do appear.

11:4    亞伯因著獻祭與神，比該隱所獻的更美，因此便得了稱義的見證，就是神指他禮物作的見證。他雖然死了，卻因這信仍舊說話。
By faith Abel offered unto God a more excellent sacrifice than Cain, by which he obtained witness that he was righteous, God testifying of his gifts: and by it he being dead yet speaketh.

11:5    以諾因著信被接去，不至於見死。人也找不著他，因為神已經把他接去了。只是他被接去以先，已經得了神喜悅他的明證。
By faith Enoch was translated that he should not see death; and was not found, because God had translated him: for before his translation he had this testimony, that he pleased God.

11:6    人非有信就不能得神的喜悅。因為到神面前來的人，必須信有神，且信他賞賜那尋求他的人。
But without faith it is impossible to please him: for he that cometh to God must believe that he is, and that he is a rewarder of them that diligently seek him.

11:7    挪亞因著信，既蒙神指示他未見的事，動了敬畏的心，豫備了一隻方舟，使他全家得救。因此就定了那世代的罪，自己也承受了那從信而來的義。
By faith Noah, being warned of God of things not seen as yet, moved with fear, prepared an ark to the saving of his house; by the which he condemned the world, and became heir of the righteousness which is by faith.

11:8    亞伯拉罕因著信，蒙召的時候，就遵命出去，往將來要得為業的地方去。出去的時候，還不知往那裡去。
By faith Abraham, when he was called to go out into a place which he should after receive for an inheritance, obeyed; and he went out, not knowing whither he went.

11:9    他因著信，就在所應許之地作客，好像在異地居住帳棚，與那同蒙一個應許的以撒，雅各一樣。
By faith he sojourned in the land of promise, as in a strange country, dwelling in tabernacles with Isaac and Jacob, the heirs with him of the same promise:

11:10    因為他等候那座有根基的城，就是神所經營所建造的。
For he looked for a city which hath foundations, whose builder and maker is God.

11:11    因著信，連撒拉自己，雖然過了生育的歲數，還能懷孕。因他以為那應許他的是可信的。
Through faith also Sara herself received strength to conceive seed, and was delivered of a child when she was past age, because she judged him faithful who had promised.

11:12    所以從一個彷佛已死的人就生出子孫，如同天上的星那樣眾多，海邊的沙那樣無數。
Therefore sprang there even of one, and him as good as dead, so many as the stars of the sky in multitude, and as the sand which is by the sea shore innumerable.

11:13    這些人都是存著信心死的，並沒有得著所應許的，卻從遠處望見，且歡喜迎接，又承認自己在世上是客旅，是寄居的。
These all died in faith, not having received the promises, but having seen them afar off, and were persuaded of them, and embraced them, and confessed that they were strangers and pilgrims on the earth.

11:14    說這樣話的人，是表明自己要找一個家鄉。
For they that say such things declare plainly that they seek a country.

11:15    他們若想念所離開的家鄉，還有可以回去的機會。
And truly, if they had been mindful of that country from whence they came out, they might have had opportunity to have returned.

11:16    他們卻羨慕一個更美的家鄉，就是在天上的。所以神被稱為他們的神，並不以為恥。因為他已經給他們豫備了一座城。
But now they desire a better country, that is, an heavenly: wherefore God is not ashamed to be called their God: for he hath prepared for them a city.

11:17    亞伯拉罕因著信，被試驗的時候，就把以撒獻上。這便是那歡喜領受應許的，將自己獨生的兒子獻上。
By faith Abraham, when he was tried, offered up Isaac: and he that had received the promises offered up his only begotten son,

11:18    論到這兒子曾有話說，從以撒生的才要稱為你的後裔。
Of whom it was said, That in Isaac shall thy seed be called:

11:19    他以為神還能叫人從死裡復活。他也彷佛從死中得回他的兒子來。
Accounting that God was able to raise him up, even from the dead; from whence also he received him in a figure.

11:20    以撒因著信，就指著將來的事，給雅各以掃祝福。
By faith Isaac blessed Jacob and Esau concerning things to come.

11:21    雅各因著信，臨死的時候，給約瑟的兩個兒子各自祝福，扶著杖頭敬拜神。
By faith Jacob, when he was a dying, blessed both the sons of Joseph; and worshipped, leaning upon the top of his staff.

11:22    約瑟因著信，臨終的時候，題到以色列族將來要出埃及，併為自己的骸骨留下遺命。
By faith Joseph, when he died, made mention of the departing of the children of Israel; and gave commandment concerning his bones.

11:23    摩西生下來，他的父母見他是個俊美的孩子，就因著信把他藏了三個月，並不怕王命。
By faith Moses, when he was born, was hid three months of his parents, because they saw he was a proper child; and they were not afraid of the king's commandment.

11:24    摩西因著信，長大了就不肯稱為法老女兒之子。
By faith Moses, when he was come to years, refused to be called the son of Pharaoh's daughter;

11:25    他寧可和神的百姓同受苦害，也不願暫時享受罪中之樂。
Choosing rather to suffer affliction with the people of God, than to enjoy the pleasures of sin for a season;

11:26    他看為基督受的凌辱，比埃及的財物更寶貴。因他想望所要得的賞賜。
Esteeming the reproach of Christ greater riches than the treasures in Egypt: for he had respect unto the recompence of the reward.

11:27    他因著信就離開埃及，不怕王怒。因為他恆心忍耐，如同看見那不能看見的主）。
By faith he forsook Egypt, not fearing the wrath of the king: for he endured, as seeing him who is invisible.

11:28    他因著信，就守逾越節，（守或作立）行灑血的禮，免得那滅長子的臨近以色列人。
Through faith he kept the passover, and the sprinkling of blood, lest he that destroyed the firstborn should touch them.

11:29    他們因著信，過紅海如行乾地。埃及人試著要過去，就被吞滅了。
By faith they passed through the Red sea as by dry land: which the Egyptians assaying to do were drowned.

11:30    以色列人因著信，圍繞耶利哥城七日，城牆就倒塌了。
By faith the walls of Jericho fell down, after they were compassed about seven days.

11:31    妓女喇合因著信，曾和和平平的接待探子，就不與那些不順從的人一同滅亡。
By faith the harlot Rahab perished not with them that believed not, when she had received the spies with peace.

11:32    我又何必再說呢。若一一細說，基甸，巴拉，叄孫，耶弗他，大衛，撒母耳，和眾先知的事，時候就不夠了。
And what shall I more say? for the time would fail me to tell of Gedeon, and of Barak, and of Samson, and of Jephthae; of David also, and Samuel, and of the prophets:

11:33    他們因著信，制伏了敵國，行了公義，得了應許，堵了獅子的口。
Who through faith subdued kingdoms, wrought righteousness, obtained promises, stopped the mouths of lions,

11:34    滅了烈火的猛勢，脫了刀劍的鋒刃，軟弱變為剛強，爭戰顯出勇敢，打退外邦的全軍。
Quenched the violence of fire, escaped the edge of the sword, out of weakness were made strong, waxed valiant in fight, turned to flight the armies of the aliens.

11:35    有婦人得自己的死人復活，又有人忍受嚴刑，不肯苟且得釋放，（釋放原文作贖）為要得著更美的復活。
Women received their dead raised to life again: and others were tortured, not accepting deliverance; that they might obtain a better resurrection:

11:36    又有人忍受戲弄，鞭打，捆鎖，監禁，各等的磨鍊。
And others had trial of cruel mockings and scourgings, yea, moreover of bonds and imprisonment:

11:37    被石頭打死，被鋸鋸死，受試探，被刀殺。披著綿羊山羊的皮各處奔跑，受窮乏，患難，苦害。
They were stoned, they were sawn asunder, were tempted, were slain with the sword: they wandered about in sheepskins and goatskins; being destitute, afflicted, tormented;

11:38    在曠野，山嶺，山洞，地穴，飄流無定。本是世界不配有的人。
(Of whom the world was not worthy:) they wandered in deserts, and in mountains, and in dens and caves of the earth.

11:39    這些人都是因信得了美好的證據，卻仍未得著所應許的。
And these all, having obtained a good report through faith, received not the promise:

11:40    因為神給我們豫備了更美的事，叫他們若不與我們同得，就不能完全。
God having provided some better thing for us, that they without us should not be made perfect.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　　


12:1    我們既有這許多的見證人，如同雲彩圍著我們，就當放下各樣的重擔，脫去容易纏累我們的罪，存心忍耐，奔那擺在我們前頭的路程，
Wherefore seeing we also are compassed about with so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight, and the sin which doth so easily beset us, and let us run with patience the race that is set before us,

12:2    仰望為我們信心創始成終的耶穌。（或作仰望那將真道創始成終的耶穌）他因那擺在前頭的喜樂，就輕看羞辱，忍受了十字架的苦難，便坐在神寶座的右邊。
Looking unto Jesus the author and finisher of our faith; who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is set down at the right hand of the throne of God.

12:3    那忍受罪人這樣頂撞的，你們要思想，免得疲倦灰心。
For consider him that endured such contradiction of sinners against himself, lest ye be wearied and faint in your minds.

12:4    你們與罪惡相爭，還沒有抵擋到留血的地步。
Ye have not yet resisted unto blood, striving against sin.

12:5    你們又忘了那勸你們如同勸兒子的話，說，我兒，你不可輕看主的管教，被他責備的時候，也不可灰心。
And ye have forgotten the exhortation which speaketh unto you as unto children, My son, despise not thou the chastening of the Lord, nor faint when thou art rebuked of him:

12:6    因為主所愛的他必管教，又鞭打凡所收納的兒子。
For whom the Lord loveth he chasteneth, and scourgeth every son whom he receiveth.

12:7    你們所忍受的，是神管教你們，待你們如同待兒子。焉有兒子不被父親管教的呢。
If ye endure chastening, God dealeth with you as with sons; for what son is he whom the father chasteneth not?

12:8    管教原是眾子所共受的，你們若不受管教，就是私子，不是兒子了。
But if ye be without chastisement, whereof all are partakers, then are ye bastards, and not sons.

12:9    再者，我們曾有生身的父管教我們，我們尚且敬重他，何況萬靈的父，我們豈不更當順服他得生嗎。
Furthermore we have had fathers of our flesh which corrected us, and we gave them reverence: shall we not much rather be in subjection unto the Father of spirits, and live?

12:10    生身的父都是暫隨己意管教我們。惟有萬靈的父管教我們，是要我們得益處，使我們在他的聖潔上有分。
For they verily for a few days chastened us after their own pleasure; but he for our profit, that we might be partakers of his holiness.

12:11    凡管教的事，當時不覺得快樂，凡覺得愁苦。後來卻為那經練過的人，結出平安的果子，就是義。
Now no chastening for the present seemeth to be joyous, but grievous: nevertheless afterward it yieldeth the peaceable fruit of righteousness unto them which are exercised thereby.

12:12    所以你們要把下垂的手，發酸的腿，梃起來。
Wherefore lift up the hands which hang down, and the feeble knees;



12:13    也要為自己的腳把道路修直了，使瘸子不至歪腳，反得痊癒。（歪腳或作差路）
And make straight paths for your feet, lest that which is lame be turned out of the way; but let it rather be healed.

12:14    你們要追求與眾人和睦，並要追求聖潔。非聖潔沒有人能見主。
Follow peace with all men, and holiness, without which no man shall see the Lord:

12:15    又要謹慎，恐怕有人失了神的恩。恐怕有毒根生出來擾亂你們，因此叫眾人沾染汙穢。
Looking diligently lest any man fail of the grace of God; lest any root of bitterness springing up trouble you, and thereby many be defiled;

12:16    恐怕有淫亂的，有貪戀世俗如以掃的。他因一點食物把自己長子的名分賣了。
Lest there be any fornicator, or profane person, as Esau, who for one morsel of meat sold his birthright.

12:17    後來想要承受父所祝的福，竟被棄絕，雖然號哭切求，卻得不著門路，使他父親的心意回轉，這是你們知道的。
For ye know how that afterward, when he would have inherited the blessing, he was rejected: for he found no place of repentance, though he sought it carefully with tears.

12:18    你們原不是來到那能摸的山，此山有火焰，密雲，黑暗，暴風，
For ye are not come unto the mount that might be touched, and that burned with fire, nor unto blackness, and darkness, and tempest,

12:19    角聲與說話的聲音。那些聽見這聲音的。都求不要再向他們說話。
And the sound of a trumpet, and the voice of words; which voice they that heard intreated that the word should not be spoken to them any more:

12:20    因為他們當不起所命他們的話說，靠近這山的，既便是走獸，也要用石頭打死。
(For they could not endure that which was commanded, And if so much as a beast touch the mountain, it shall be stoned, or thrust through with a dart:

12:21    所見的極其可怕，甚至摩西說，我甚是恐懼戰競。
And so terrible was the sight, that Moses said, I exceedingly fear and quake:)

12:22    你們乃是來到錫安山，永生神的城邑，就是天上的耶路撒冷。那裡有千萬的天使，
But ye are come unto mount Sion, and unto the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to an innumerable company of angels,

12:23    有名錄在天上諸長子之會所共聚的總會，有審判眾人的神，和被成全之義人的靈魂。
To the general assembly and church of the firstborn, which are written in heaven, and to God the Judge of all, and to the spirits of just men made perfect,

12:24    並新約的中保耶穌，以及所灑的血。這血所說的比亞伯的血所說的更美。
And to Jesus the mediator of the new covenant, and to the blood of sprinkling, that speaketh better things than that of Abel.

12:25    你們總要謹慎，不可棄絕那向你們說話的。因為那些棄絕在地上警戒他們的，尚且不能逃罪，何況我們違背那從天上警戒我們的呢。
See that ye refuse not him that speaketh. For if they escaped not who refused him that spake on earth, much more shall not we escape, if we turn away from him that speaketh from heaven:

12:26    當時他的聲音震動了地。但如今他應許說，再一次我不單要震動地，還要震動天。
Whose voice then shook the earth: but now he hath promised, saying, Yet once more I shake not the earth only, but also heaven.

12:27    這再一次的話，是指明被震動的，就是受造之物，都要挪去，使那不被震動的常存。
And this word, Yet once more, signifieth the removing of those things that are shaken, as of things that are made, that those things which cannot be shaken may remain.

12:28    所以我們既得了不能震動的國，就當感恩，照神所喜悅的，用虔誠敬畏的心事奉神。
Wherefore we receiving a kingdom which cannot be moved, let us have grace, whereby we may serve God acceptably with reverence and godly fear:

12:29    因為我們的神乃是烈火。
For our God is a consuming fire.



新約 -- 希伯來書(Hebrews) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


13:1    你們務要存弟兄相愛的心。
Let brotherly love continue.

13:2    不可忘記用愛心接待客旅。因為曾有接待客旅的，不知不覺就接待了天使。
Be not forgetful to entertain strangers: for thereby some have entertained angels unawares.

13:3    你們要記念被捆綁的人，好像與他們同受捆綁，也要記念遭苦害的人，想到自己也在肉身之內。
Remember them that are in bonds, as bound with them; and them which suffer adversity, as being yourselves also in the body.

13:4    婚姻，人人都當尊重，床也不可汙穢。因為苟合行淫的人神必要審判。
Marriage is honourable in all, and the bed undefiled: but whoremongers and adulterers God will judge.

13:5    你們存心不可貪愛錢財。要以自己所有的為足。因為主曾說，我總不撇下你，也不丟去你。
Let your conversation be without covetousness; and be content with such things as ye have: for he hath said, I will never leave thee, nor forsake thee.

13:6    所以我們可以放膽說，主是幫助我的，我必不懼怕。人能把我怎嗎樣呢。
So that we may boldly say, The Lord is my helper, and I will not fear what man shall do unto me.

13:7    從前引導你們，傳神之道給你們的人，你們要想念他們，效法他們的信心，留心看他們為人的結局。
Remember them which have the rule over you, who have spoken unto you the word of God: whose faith follow, considering the end of their conversation.

13:8    耶穌基督，昨日今日一直到永遠是一樣的。
Jesus Christ the same yesterday, and to day, and for ever.

13:9    你們不要被那諸般怪異的教訓勾引了去。因為人心靠恩得堅固才是好的。並不是靠飲食。那在飲食上專心的，從來沒有得著益處。
Be not carried about with divers and strange doctrines. For it is a good thing that the heart be established with grace; not with meats, which have not profited them that have been occupied therein.

13:10    我們有一祭壇，上面的祭物是那些在帳幕中供職的人不可同吃的。
We have an altar, whereof they have no right to eat which serve the tabernacle.

13:11    原來牲畜的血，被大祭司帶入聖所作贖罪祭，牲畜的身子，被燒在營外。
For the bodies of those beasts, whose blood is brought into the sanctuary by the high priest for sin, are burned without the camp.

13:12    所以耶穌，要用自己的血叫百姓成聖，也就在城門外受苦。
Wherefore Jesus also, that he might sanctify the people with his own blood, suffered without the gate.

13:13    這樣，我們也當出到營外就了他去，忍受他所受的凌辱。
Let us go forth therefore unto him without the camp, bearing his reproach.

13:14    我們在這裡本沒有常存的城，乃是尋求那將來的城。
For here have we no continuing city, but we seek one to come.

13:15    我們應當靠著耶穌，常常以頌讚為祭獻給神，這就是那承認主名之人嘴脣的果子。
By him therefore let us offer the sacrifice of praise to God continually, that is, the fruit of our lips giving thanks to his name.

13:16    只是不可忘記行善，和捐輸的事。因為這樣的祭，是神所喜悅的。
But to do good and to communicate forget not: for with such sacrifices God is well pleased.

13:17    你們要依從那些引導你們的，且要順服。因他們為你們的靈魂時刻儆醒，好像那將來交賬的人。你們要使他們交的時候有快樂，不至憂愁。若憂愁就與你們無益了。
Obey them that have the rule over you, and submit yourselves: for they watch for your souls, as they that must give account, that they may do it with joy, and not with grief: for that is unprofitable for you.

13:18    請你們為我們禱告。因我們自覺良心無虧，願意凡事按正道而行。
Pray for us: for we trust we have a good conscience, in all things willing to live honestly.

13:19    我更求你們為我禱告，使我快些回到你們那裡去。
But I beseech you the rather to do this, that I may be restored to you the sooner.

13:20    但願賜平安的神，就是那憑永約之血使群羊的大牧人我主耶穌，從死裡復活的神，
Now the God of peace, that brought again from the dead our Lord Jesus, that great shepherd of the sheep, through the blood of the everlasting covenant,

13:21    在各樣善事上，成全你們，叫你們遵行他的旨意，又藉著耶穌基督在你們心裡行他所喜悅的事。願榮耀歸給他，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
Make you perfect in every good work to do his will, working in you that which is wellpleasing in his sight, through Jesus Christ; to whom be glory for ever and ever. Amen.

13:22    弟兄們，我略略寫給你們，望你們聽我勸勉的話。
And I beseech you, brethren, suffer the word of exhortation: for I have written a letter unto you in few words.

13:23    你們該知道我們的弟兄提摩太已經釋放了。他若快來，我必同他誇見你們。
Know ye that our brother Timothy is set at liberty; with whom, if he come shortly, I will see you.

13:24    請你們問引導你們的諸位和眾聖徒安。從義大利來的人也問你們安。
Salute all them that have the rule over you, and all the saints. They of Italy salute you.

13:25    願恩惠常與你們眾人同在。阿們。
Grace be with you all. Amen.




