


新約 -- 雅各書(James) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


1:1    作神和主耶穌基督僕人的雅各，請散住十二個支派之人的安。
James, a servant of God and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes which are scattered abroad, greeting.

1:2    我的弟兄們，你們落在百般的試煉中，都要以為大喜樂。
My brethren, count it all joy when ye fall into divers temptations;

1:3    因為知道你們的信心經過試驗就生忍耐。
Knowing this, that the trying of your faith worketh patience.

1:4    但忍耐也當成功，使你們成全完備，毫無缺欠。
But let patience have her perfect work, that ye may be perfect and entire, wanting nothing.

1:5    你們中間若有缺少智慧的，應當求那厚賜與眾人，也不斥責人的神，主就必賜給他。
If any of you lack wisdom, let him ask of God, that giveth to all men liberally, and upbraideth not; and it shall be given him.

1:6    只要憑著信心求，一點不疑惑。因為那疑惑的人，就像海中的波浪，被風吹動翻騰。
But let him ask in faith, nothing wavering. For he that wavereth is like a wave of the sea driven with the wind and tossed.

1:7    這樣的人，不要想從主那裡得什麼。
For let not that man think that he shall receive any thing of the Lord.

1:8    心懷二意的人，在他一切所行的路上，都沒有定見。
A double minded man is unstable in all his ways.

1:9    卑微的弟兄升高，就該喜樂。
Let the brother of low degree rejoice in that he is exalted:

1:10    富足的降卑，也該如此。因為他必要過去，如同草上的花一樣。
But the rich, in that he is made low: because as the flower of the grass he shall pass away.

1:11    太陽出來，熱風颳起，草就枯乾，花也凋謝，美容就消沒了。那富足的人，在他所行的事上，也要這樣衰殘。
For the sun is no sooner risen with a burning heat, but it withereth the grass, and the flower thereof falleth, and the grace of the fashion of it perisheth: so also shall the rich man fade away in his ways.

1:12    忍受試探的人是有福的。因為他經過試驗以後，必得生命的冠冕，這是主應許給那些愛他之人的。
Blessed is the man that endureth temptation: for when he is tried, he shall receive the crown of life, which the Lord hath promised to them that love him.

1:13    人被試探，不可說，我是被神試探。因為神不能被惡試探，他也不試探人。
Let no man say when he is tempted, I am tempted of God: for God cannot be tempted with evil, neither tempteth he any man:

1:14    但各人被試探，乃是被自己的私慾牽引誘惑的。
But every man is tempted, when he is drawn away of his own lust, and enticed.

1:15    私慾既懷了胎，就生出罪來。罪既長成，就生出死來。
Then when lust hath conceived, it bringeth forth sin: and sin, when it is finished, bringeth forth death.

1:16    我親愛的弟兄們，不要看錯了。
Do not err, my beloved brethren.

1:17    各樣美善的恩賜，和各樣全備的賞賜，都是從上頭來的。從眾光之父那裡降下來的。在他並沒有改變，也沒有轉動的影兒。
Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above, and cometh down from the Father of lights, with whom is no variableness, neither shadow of turning.

1:18    他按自己的旨意，用真道生了我們，叫我們在他所造的萬物中，好像初熟的果子。
Of his own will begat he us with the word of truth, that we should be a kind of firstfruits of his creatures.

1:19    我親愛的弟兄們，這是你們所知道的。但你們各人要快快的聽，慢慢的說，慢慢的動怒。
Wherefore, my beloved brethren, let every man be swift to hear, slow to speak, slow to wrath:

1:20    因為人的怒氣，並不成就神的義。
For the wrath of man worketh not the righteousness of God.

1:21    所以你們要脫去一切的汙穢，和盈餘的邪惡，存溫柔的心領受那所栽種的道，就是能救你們靈魂的道。
Wherefore lay apart all filthiness and superfluity of naughtiness, and receive with meekness the engrafted word, which is able to save your souls.

1:22    只是你們要行道，不要單單聽道，自己欺哄自己。
But be ye doers of the word, and not hearers only, deceiving your own selves.

1:23    因為聽道而不行道的，就像人對著鏡子看自己本來的面目。
For if any be a hearer of the word, and not a doer, he is like unto a man beholding his natural face in a glass:

1:24    看見，走後，隨即忘了他的相貌如何。
For he beholdeth himself, and goeth his way, and straightway forgetteth what manner of man he was.

1:25    惟有那詳細察看那全備使人自由之律法的，並且時常如此，這人既不是聽了就忘，乃是實在行出來，就在他所行的事上必然得福。
But whoso looketh into the perfect law of liberty, and continueth therein, he being not a forgetful hearer, but a doer of the work, this man shall be blessed in his deed.

1:26    若有人自以為虔誠，卻不勒住他的舌頭，反欺哄自己的心，這人的虔誠是虛的。
If any man among you seem to be religious, and bridleth not his tongue, but deceiveth his own heart, this man's religion is vain.

1:27    在神我們的父面前，那清潔沒有玷汙的虔誠，就是看僱在患難中的孤兒寡婦，並且保守自己不沾染世俗。
Pure religion and undefiled before God and the Father is this, To visit the fatherless and widows in their affliction, and to keep himself unspotted from the world.



新約 -- 雅各書(James) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


2:1    我的弟兄們，你們信奉我們榮耀的主耶穌基督，便不可按著外貌待人。
My brethren, have not the faith of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory, with respect of persons.

2:2    若有一個人帶著金戒指，穿著華美衣服，進你們的會堂去。又有一個窮人，穿著骯髒衣服也進去。
For if there come unto your assembly a man with a gold ring, in goodly apparel, and there come in also a poor man in vile raiment;

2:3    你們就重看那穿華美衣服的人，說，請坐在這好位上。又對那窮人說，你站在那裡，或坐在我腳凳下邊。
And ye have respect to him that weareth the gay clothing, and say unto him, Sit thou here in a good place; and say to the poor, Stand thou there, or sit here under my footstool:

2:4    這豈不是你們用偏心待人，用惡意斷定人嗎。
Are ye not then partial in yourselves, and are become judges of evil thoughts?

2:5    我親愛的弟兄們請聽，神豈不是揀選了世上的貧窮人，叫他們在信上富足，並承受他所應許給那些愛他之人的國嗎。
Hearken, my beloved brethren, Hath not God chosen the poor of this world rich in faith, and heirs of the kingdom which he hath promised to them that love him?

2:6    你們反倒羞辱貧窮人。那富足人豈不是欺壓你們，拉你們到公堂去嗎。
But ye have despised the poor. Do not rich men oppress you, and draw you before the judgment seats?

2:7    他們不是褻瀆你們所敬奉的尊名嗎。（所敬奉或作被稱）
Do not they blaspheme that worthy name by the which ye are called?

2:8    經上記著說，要愛人如己。你們若全守這至尊的律法才是好的。
If ye fulfil the royal law according to the scripture, Thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself, ye do well:

2:9    但你們若按外貌待人，便是犯罪，被律法定為犯法的。
But if ye have respect to persons, ye commit sin, and are convinced of the law as transgressors.

2:10    因為凡遵守全律法的，只在一條上跌倒，他就是犯了眾條。
For whosoever shall keep the whole law, and yet offend in one point, he is guilty of all.

2:11    原來那說不可姦淫的，也說不可殺人。你就是不姦淫，卻殺人，仍是成了犯律法的。
For he that said, Do not commit adultery, said also, Do not kill. Now if thou commit no adultery, yet if thou kill, thou art become a transgressor of the law.

2:12    你們既然要按使人自由的律法受審判，就該照這律法說話行事。
So speak ye, and so do, as they that shall be judged by the law of liberty.

2:13    因為那不憐憫人的，也要受無憐憫的審判。憐憫原是向審判誇勝。
For he shall have judgment without mercy, that hath shewed no mercy; and mercy rejoiceth against judgment.

2:14    我的弟兄們，若有人說，自己有信心，卻沒有行為，有什麼益處呢。這信心能救他嗎。
What doth it profit, my brethren, though a man say he hath faith, and have not works? can faith save him?

2:15    若是弟兄，或是姐妹，赤身露體，又缺了日用的飲食，
If a brother or sister be naked, and destitute of daily food,

2:16    你們中間有人對他們說，平平安安的去吧，願你們穿得暖吃得飽。卻不給他們身體所需用的，這有什麼益處呢。
And one of you say unto them, Depart in peace, be ye warmed and filled; notwithstanding ye give them not those things which are needful to the body; what doth it profit?

2:17    這樣信心若沒有行為就是死的。
Even so faith, if it hath not works, is dead, being alone.

2:18    必有人說，你有信心，我有行為。你將你沒有行為的信心指給我看，我便藉著我的行為，將我的信心指給你看。
Yea, a man may say, Thou hast faith, and I have works: shew me thy faith without thy works, and I will shew thee my faith by my works.

2:19    你信神只有一位，你信的不錯。鬼魔也信，卻是戰兢。
Thou believest that there is one God; thou doest well: the devils also believe, and tremble.

2:20    虛浮的人哪，你願意知道沒有行為的信心是死的嗎。
But wilt thou know, O vain man, that faith without works is dead?

2:21    我們的祖宗亞伯拉罕，把他兒子以撒獻在壇上，豈不是因行為稱義嗎。
Was not Abraham our father justified by works, when he had offered Isaac his son upon the altar?

2:22    可見信心是與他的行為並行，而且信心因著行為才得成全。
Seest thou how faith wrought with his works, and by works was faith made perfect?

2:23    這就應驗經上所說，亞伯拉罕信神，這就算為他的義。他又得稱為神的朋友。
And the scripture was fulfilled which saith, Abraham believed God, and it was imputed unto him for righteousness: and he was called the Friend of God.

2:24    這樣看來，人稱義是因著行為，不是單因著信。
Ye see then how that by works a man is justified, and not by faith only.

2:25    妓女喇合接待使者，又放他們從別的路出去，不也是一樣因行為稱義嗎。
Likewise also was not Rahab the harlot justified by works, when she had received the messengers, and had sent them out another way?

2:26    身體沒有靈魂是死的，信心沒有行為也是死的。
For as the body without the spirit is dead, so faith without works is dead also.



新約 -- 雅各書(James) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


3:1    我的弟兄們，不要多人作師父，因為曉得我們要受更的判斷。
My brethren, be not many masters, knowing that we shall receive the greater condemnation.

3:2    原來我們在許多事上都有過失。若有人在話語上沒有過失，他就是完全人，也能勒住自己的全身。
For in many things we offend all. If any man offend not in word, the same is a perfect man, and able also to bridle the whole body.

3:3    我們若把嚼環放在馬嘴裡，叫他順服，就能調動他的全身。
Behold, we put bits in the horses' mouths, that they may obey us; and we turn about their whole body.

3:4    看哪，船隻雖然甚大，又被大風催逼，只用小小的舵，就隨著掌舵的意思轉動。
Behold also the ships, which though they be so great, and are driven of fierce winds, yet are they turned about with a very small helm, whithersoever the governor listeth.

3:5    這樣，舌頭在百體裡也是最小的，卻能說大話。看哪，最小的火能點著最大的樹林。
Even so the tongue is a little member, and boasteth great things. Behold, how great a matter a little fire kindleth!

3:6    舌頭就是火，在我們百體中，舌頭是個罪惡的世界，能汙穢全身，也能把生命的輪子點起來，並且是從地獄裡點著的。
And the tongue is a fire, a world of iniquity: so is the tongue among our members, that it defileth the whole body, and setteth on fire the course of nature; and it is set on fire of hell.

3:7    各類的走獸，飛禽，昆蟲，水族，本來都可以制伏，也以經被人制伏了。
For every kind of beasts, and of birds, and of serpents, and of things in the sea, is tamed, and hath been tamed of mankind:

3:8    惟獨舌頭沒有人能制伏，是不止息的惡物，滿了害死人的毒氣。
But the tongue can no man tame; it is an unruly evil, full of deadly poison.

3:9    我們用舌頭頌讚那為主為父的，又用舌頭咒詛那照著神形像被造的人。
Therewith bless we God, even the Father; and therewith curse we men, which are made after the similitude of God.

3:10    頌讚和咒詛從一個口裡出來，我的弟兄們，這是不應當的。
Out of the same mouth proceedeth blessing and cursing. My brethren, these things ought not so to be.

3:11    泉源從一個眼裡能發出甜苦兩樣的水嗎。
Doth a fountain send forth at the same place sweet water and bitter?

3:12    我的弟兄們，無花果樹能生橄欖嗎，葡萄樹能結無花果嗎。鹹水裡也不能發出甜水來。
Can the fig tree, my brethren, bear olive berries? either a vine, figs? so can no fountain both yield salt water and fresh.

3:13    你們中間有智慧有見識的呢。他就當在智慧的溫柔上，顯出他的善行來。
Who is a wise man and endued with knowledge among you? let him shew out of a good conversation his works with meekness of wisdom.

3:14    你們心裡若懷著苦毒的嫉妒和分爭，就不可自誇，也不可說謊話抵擋真道。
But if ye have bitter envying and strife in your hearts, glory not, and lie not against the truth.

3:15    這樣的智慧，不是從上頭來的，乃是屬地的，屬情慾的，屬鬼魔的。
This wisdom descendeth not from above, but is earthly, sensual, devilish.

3:16    在何處有嫉妒分爭，就在何處有擾亂，和各樣的壞事。
For where envying and strife is, there is confusion and every evil work.

3:17    惟獨從上頭來的智慧，先是清潔，後是和平，溫良柔順，滿有憐憫，多結善果，沒有偏見，沒有假冒。
But the wisdom that is from above is first pure, then peaceable, gentle, and easy to be intreated, full of mercy and good fruits, without partiality, and without hypocrisy.

3:18    並且使人和平的，是用和平所栽種的義果。
And the fruit of righteousness is sown in peace of them that make peace.



新約 -- 雅各書(James) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


4:1    你們中間的爭戰鬥毆，是從那裡來的呢。不是從你們百體中戰鬥之私慾來的嗎。
From whence come wars and fightings among you? come they not hence, even of your lusts that war in your members?

4:2    你們貪戀，還是得不著。你們殺害嫉妒，又鬥毆爭戰，也不能得。你們得不著，是因為你們不求。
Ye lust, and have not: ye kill, and desire to have, and cannot obtain: ye fight and war, yet ye have not, because ye ask not.

4:3    你們求也得不著，是因為你們妄求，要浪費在你們的宴樂中。
Ye ask, and receive not, because ye ask amiss, that ye may consume it upon your lusts.



4:4    你們這些淫亂的人哪，（淫亂的人原文作淫婦）豈不知與世俗為友，就是與神為敵嗎。所以凡想要與世俗為友的，就是與神為敵了。
Ye adulterers and adulteresses, know ye not that the friendship of the world is enmity with God? whosoever therefore will be a friend of the world is the enemy of God.

4:5    你們想經上所說的是徒然的嗎。神所賜住在我們裡面的靈，是戀愛至於嫉妒嗎。
Do ye think that the scripture saith in vain, The spirit that dwelleth in us lusteth to envy?

4:6    但他賜更多的恩典。所以經上說，神阻擋驕傲的人，賜恩給謙卑的人。
But he giveth more grace. Wherefore he saith, God resisteth the proud, but giveth grace unto the humble.

4:7    故此你們要順服神，務要抵擋魔鬼，魔鬼就必離開你們逃跑了。
Submit yourselves therefore to God. Resist the devil, and he will flee from you.

4:8    你們親近神，神就必親近你們。有罪的人哪，要潔淨你們的手。心懷二意的人哪，要清潔你們的心。
Draw nigh to God, and he will draw nigh to you. Cleanse your hands, ye sinners; and purify your hearts, ye double minded.

4:9    你們要愁苦，悲哀，哭泣。將喜笑變作悲哀，歡樂變作愁悶。
Be afflicted, and mourn, and weep: let your laughter be turned to mourning, and your joy to heaviness.

4:10    務要在主面前自卑，主就比叫你們升高。
Humble yourselves in the sight of the Lord, and he shall lift you up.

4:11    弟兄們，你們不可彼此批評。人若批評弟兄，論斷弟兄，就是批評律法，論斷律法。你若論斷律法，就不是遵行律法，乃是判斷人的。
Speak not evil one of another, brethren. He that speaketh evil of his brother, and judgeth his brother, speaketh evil of the law, and judgeth the law: but if thou judge the law, thou art not a doer of the law, but a judge.

4:12    設立律法和判斷人的，只有一位，就是那能救人也能滅人的。你是誰，竟敢論斷別人呢。
There is one lawgiver, who is able to save and to destroy: who art thou that judgest another?

4:13    ？？，你們有話說，今天明天我們要往某城裡去，在那裡住一年，作買賣得利。
Go to now, ye that say, To day or to morrow we will go into such a city, and continue there a year, and buy and sell, and get gain:

4:14    其實明天如何，你們還不知道。你們的生命是什麼呢。你們原來是一片雲霧，出現少時就不見了。
Whereas ye know not what shall be on the morrow. For what is your life? It is even a vapour, that appeareth for a little time, and then vanisheth away.

4:15    你們只當說，主若願意，我們就可以活著，也可以作這事，或作那事。
For that ye ought to say, If the Lord will, we shall live, and do this, or that.

4:16    現今你們竟以張狂跨口。凡這樣跨口都是惡的。
But now ye rejoice in your boastings: all such rejoicing is evil.

4:17    人若知道行善，卻不去行，這就是他的罪了。
Therefore to him that knoweth to do good, and doeth it not, to him it is sin.



新約 -- 雅各書(James) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


5:1    ？？，你們這些富足人哪，應當哭泣，號？？，因為將有苦難臨到你們身上。
Go to now, ye rich men, weep and howl for your miseries that shall come upon you.

5:2    你們的財物壞了，衣服也被蟲子咬了。
Your riches are corrupted, and your garments are motheaten.

5:3    你們的金銀都長了鏽。那鏽要證明你們的不是，又要吃你們的肉，如同火燒。你們在這末世，只知積攢錢財。
Your gold and silver is cankered; and the rust of them shall be a witness against you, and shall eat your flesh as it were fire. Ye have heaped treasure together for the last days.

5:4    工人給你們收割莊稼，你們虧欠他們的工錢。這工錢有聲音呼叫。並且那收割之人的冤聲，已經入了萬軍之主的耳了。
Behold, the hire of the labourers who have reaped down your fields, which is of you kept back by fraud, crieth: and the cries of them which have reaped are entered into the ears of the Lord of sabaoth.

5:5    你們在世上享美福，好宴樂，當宰殺的日子竟嬌養你們的心。
Ye have lived in pleasure on the earth, and been wanton; ye have nourished your hearts, as in a day of slaughter.

5:6    你們定了義人的罪，把他殺害，他也不抵擋你們。
Ye have condemned and killed the just; and he doth not resist you.

5:7    弟兄們哪，你們要忍耐直到主來。看哪，農夫忍耐等候地裡寶貴的出產，直到得了秋雨春雨。
Be patient therefore, brethren, unto the coming of the Lord. Behold, the husbandman waiteth for the precious fruit of the earth, and hath long patience for it, until he receive the early and latter rain.

5:8    你們也當忍耐，堅固你們的心。因為主來的日子近了。
Be ye also patient; stablish your hearts: for the coming of the Lord draweth nigh.

5:9    弟兄們，你們不要彼此埋怨，免得受審判。看哪，審判的主站在門前了。
Grudge not one against another, brethren, lest ye be condemned: behold, the judge standeth before the door.

5:10    弟兄們，你們要把那先前奉主名說話的眾先知，當作能受苦能忍耐的榜樣。
Take, my brethren, the prophets, who have spoken in the name of the Lord, for an example of suffering affliction, and of patience.

5:11    那先前忍耐的人，我們稱他們是有福的，你們聽見過約伯的忍耐，也知道主給他的結局，明顯主是滿有憐憫，大有慈悲。
Behold, we count them happy which endure. Ye have heard of the patience of Job, and have seen the end of the Lord; that the Lord is very pitiful, and of tender mercy.

5:12    我的弟兄們，最要緊的是不可起誓。不可指著天起誓，也不可指著地起誓，無論何誓都不可起。你們說話，是就說是，不是就說不是，免得你們落在審判之下。
But above all things, my brethren, swear not, neither by heaven, neither by the earth, neither by any other oath: but let your yea be yea; and your nay, nay; lest ye fall into condemnation.

5:13    你們中間有受苦的呢，他就該禱告。有喜樂的呢，他就該歌頌。
Is any among you afflicted? let him pray. Is any merry? let him sing psalms.

5:14    你們中間有病了的呢，他就該請教會的長老來。他們可以奉主的名用油抹他，為他禱告。
Is any sick among you? let him call for the elders of the church; and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord:

5:15    出於信心的祈禱，要救那病人，主必叫他起來。他若犯了罪，也必蒙赦免。
And the prayer of faith shall save the sick, and the Lord shall raise him up; and if he have committed sins, they shall be forgiven him.

5:16    所以你們要彼此認罪，互相代求，使你們可以得醫治。義人祈禱所發的力量，是大有功效的。
Confess your faults one to another, and pray one for another, that ye may be healed. The effectual fervent prayer of a righteous man availeth much.

5:17    以利亞與我們是一樣性情的人，他懇切禱告，求不要下雨，雨就三年零六個月不下在地上。
Elias was a man subject to like passions as we are, and he prayed earnestly that it might not rain: and it rained not on the earth by the space of three years and six months.

5:18    他又禱告，天就降下雨來，地也生出土產。
And he prayed again, and the heaven gave rain, and the earth brought forth her fruit.

5:19    我的弟兄們，你們中間若有失迷真道的，有人使他迴轉。
Brethren, if any of you do err from the truth, and one convert him;

5:20    這人該知道叫一個罪人從迷路上轉回，便是救一個靈魂不死，並且遮蓋許多的罪。
Let him know, that he which converteth the sinner from the error of his way shall save a soul from death, and shall hide a multitude of sins.


