

新約 -- 彼得前書(1Peter) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


1:1    耶穌基督的使徒彼得，寫信給那分散在本都，加拉太，加帕多家，亞細亞，庇推尼寄居的。
Peter, an apostle of Jesus Christ, to the strangers scattered throughout Pontus, Galatia, Cappadocia, Asia, and Bithynia,

1:2    就是照父神的先見被揀選，藉著聖靈得成聖潔，以致順服耶穌基督，又蒙他血所灑的人。願恩惠平安，多多的加給你們。
Elect according to the foreknowledge of God the Father, through sanctification of the Spirit, unto obedience and sprinkling of the blood of Jesus Christ: Grace unto you, and peace, be multiplied.

1:3    願頌讚歸與我們的主耶穌基督的父神，他曾照自己的大憐憫，藉耶穌基督從死裡復活重生了我們，教我們有活潑的盼望，
Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, which according to his abundant mercy hath begotten us again unto a lively hope by the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead,

1:4    可以得著不能朽壞，不能玷汙，不能衰殘，為你們存留在天上的基業。
To an inheritance incorruptible, and undefiled, and that fadeth not away, reserved in heaven for you,

1:5    你們這因信蒙神能力保守的人，必能得著所豫備，到末世要顯現的救恩。
Who are kept by the power of God through faith unto salvation ready to be revealed in the last time.

1:6    因此，你們是大有喜樂，但如今，在百般的試煉中暫時憂愁。
Wherein ye greatly rejoice, though now for a season, if need be, ye are in heaviness through manifold temptations:

1:7    叫你們的信心既被試驗，就比那被火試驗，仍然能壞的金子，更顯寶貴。可以在耶穌基督顯現的時候，得著稱讚，榮耀，尊貴。
That the trial of your faith, being much more precious than of gold that perisheth, though it be tried with fire, might be found unto praise and honour and glory at the appearing of Jesus Christ:

1:8    你們雖然沒有見過他，卻是愛他。如今雖不得看見，卻因信他就有說不出來，滿有榮光的大喜樂。
Whom having not seen, ye love; in whom, though now ye see him not, yet believing, ye rejoice with joy unspeakable and full of glory:

1:9    並且得著你們信心的果效，就是靈魂的救恩。
Receiving the end of your faith, even the salvation of your souls.

1:10    論到這救恩，那豫先說你們要得恩典的眾先知，早已詳細的尋求考察。
Of which salvation the prophets have enquired and searched diligently, who prophesied of the grace that should come unto you:

1:11    就是考察在他們心裡基督的靈，豫先證明基督受苦難，後來得榮耀，是指著什麼時候，並怎樣的時候。
Searching what, or what manner of time the Spirit of Christ which was in them did signify, when it testified beforehand the sufferings of Christ, and the glory that should follow.

1:12    他們得了啟示，知道他們所傳講的一切事（傳講原文作服事），不是為自己，乃是為你們。那靠著從天上差來的聖靈，傳福音給你們的人，現在將這些事報給你們。天使也願意詳細察看這些事。
Unto whom it was revealed, that not unto themselves, but unto us they did minister the things, which are now reported unto you by them that have preached the gospel unto you with the Holy Ghost sent down from heaven; which things the angels desire to look into.

1:13    所以要約束你們的心（原文作束上你們心中的腰），謹慎自守，專心盼望耶穌基督顯現的時候所帶來給你們的恩。
Wherefore gird up the loins of your mind, be sober, and hope to the end for the grace that is to be brought unto you at the revelation of Jesus Christ;

1:14    你們既作順命的兒女，就不要效法從前矇昧無知的時候，那放縱私慾的樣子。
As obedient children, not fashioning yourselves according to the former lusts in your ignorance:

1:15    那召你們的既是聖潔，你們在一切所行的事上也要聖潔。
But as he which hath called you is holy, so be ye holy in all manner of conversation;

1:16    因為經上記著說，你們要聖潔，因為我是聖潔的。
Because it is written, Be ye holy; for I am holy.

1:17    你們既稱那不偏待人，按各人行為審判人的主為父，就當存敬畏的心，度你們在世寄居的日子。
And if ye call on the Father, who without respect of persons judgeth according to every man's work, pass the time of your sojourning here in fear:

1:18    知道你們得救贖，脫去你們祖宗所傳流虛妄的行為，不是憑著能壞的金銀等物。
Forasmuch as ye know that ye were not redeemed with corruptible things, as silver and gold, from your vain conversation received by tradition from your fathers;

1:19    乃是憑著基督的寶血，如同無瑕疵無玷汙的羔羊之血。
But with the precious blood of Christ, as of a lamb without blemish and without spot:

1:20    基督在創世以前，是豫先被神知道的，卻在這末世，才為你們顯現。
Who verily was foreordained before the foundation of the world, but was manifest in these last times for you,

1:21    你們也因信著他，信那叫他從死裡復活，又給他榮耀的神，叫你們的信心，和盼望，都在於神。
Who by him do believe in God, that raised him up from the dead, and gave him glory; that your faith and hope might be in God.

1:22    你們既因順從真理，潔淨了自己的心，以致愛弟兄沒有虛假，就當從心裡彼此切實相愛。從心裡有古卷作從清潔的心
Seeing ye have purified your souls in obeying the truth through the Spirit unto unfeigned love of the brethren, see that ye love one another with a pure heart fervently:

1:23    你們蒙了重生，不是由於能壞的種子，乃是由於不能壞的種子，是藉著神活潑常存的道。
Being born again, not of corruptible seed, but of incorruptible, by the word of God, which liveth and abideth for ever.

1:24    因為凡有血氣的，盡都如草，他的美榮，都像草上的花。草必枯乾，花必凋謝。
For all flesh is as grass, and all the glory of man as the flower of grass. The grass withereth, and the flower thereof falleth away:

1:25    惟有主的道是永存的。所傳給你們的福音就是這道。
But the word of the Lord endureth for ever. And this is the word which by the gospel is preached unto you.




新約 -- 彼得前書(1Peter) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


2:1    所以你們既除去一切的惡毒（或作陰毒），詭詐，並假善，嫉妒，和一切毀謗的話，
Wherefore laying aside all malice, and all guile, and hypocrisies, and envies, and all evil speakings,

2:2    就要愛慕那純淨的靈奶，像才生的嬰孩愛慕奶一樣，叫你們因此漸長，以致得救。
As newborn babes, desire the sincere milk of the word, that ye may grow thereby:

2:3    你們若嘗過主恩的滋味，就必如此
If so be ye have tasted that the Lord is gracious.

2:4    主乃活石。固然是被人所棄的，卻是被神所揀選所寶貴的。
To whom coming, as unto a living stone, disallowed indeed of men, but chosen of God, and precious,

2:5    你們來到主面前，也就像活石，被建造成為靈宮，作聖潔的祭司，藉著耶穌基督奉獻神所悅納的靈祭。
Ye also, as lively stones, are built up a spiritual house, an holy priesthood, to offer up spiritual sacrifices, acceptable to God by Jesus Christ.

2:6    因為經上說，看哪，我把所揀選所寶貴的房角石，安放在錫安。信靠他的人，必不至於羞愧。
Wherefore also it is contained in the scripture, Behold, I lay in Sion a chief corner stone, elect, precious: and he that believeth on him shall not be confounded.

2:7    所以他在你們信的人就為寶貴，在那不信的人有話說，匠人所棄的石頭，已作了房角的頭塊石頭。
Unto you therefore which believe he is precious: but unto them which be disobedient, the stone which the builders disallowed, the same is made the head of the corner,

2:8    又說，作了絆腳的石頭，跌人的磐石。他們既不順從，就在道理上絆跌。（或作他們絆跌都因不順從道理）他們這樣絆跌也是豫定的。
And a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offence, even to them which stumble at the word, being disobedient: whereunto also they were appointed.

2:9    惟有你們是被揀選的族類，是有君尊的祭司，是聖潔的國度，是屬神的子民，要叫你們宣揚那召你們出黑暗入奇妙光明者的美德。
But ye are a chosen generation, a royal priesthood, an holy nation, a peculiar people; that ye should shew forth the praises of him who hath called you out of darkness into his marvellous light:

2:10    你們從前算不得子民，現在卻作了神的子民。從前未曾蒙憐恤，現在卻蒙了憐恤。
Which in time past were not a people, but are now the people of God: which had not obtained mercy, but now have obtained mercy.

2:11    親愛的弟兄阿你們是客旅，是寄居的。我勸你們要禁戒肉體的私慾。這私慾是與靈魂爭戰的。
Dearly beloved, I beseech you as strangers and pilgrims, abstain from fleshly lusts, which war against the soul;

2:12    你們在外邦人中，應當品行端正，叫那些毀謗你們是作惡的，因看見你們的好行為，便在鑑察的日子（鑑察或作眷顧），歸榮耀給神。
Having your conversation honest among the Gentiles: that, whereas they speak against you as evildoers, they may by your good works, which they shall behold, glorify God in the day of visitation.

2:13    你們為主的緣故，要順服人的一切制度，或是在上的君王，
Submit yourselves to every ordinance of man for the Lord's sake: whether it be to the king, as supreme;

2:14    或是君王所派罰惡賞善的臣宰。
Or unto governors, as unto them that are sent by him for the punishment of evildoers, and for the praise of them that do well.

2:15    因為神的旨意原是要你們行善，可以堵住那糊塗無知人的口。
For so is the will of God, that with well doing ye may put to silence the ignorance of foolish men:

2:16    你們雖是自由的，卻不可藉著自由遮蓋惡毒（或作陰毒），總要作神的僕人。
As free, and not using your liberty for a cloke of maliciousness, but as the servants of God.

2:17    務要尊敬眾人。親愛教中的弟兄。敬畏神。尊敬君王。
Honour all men. Love the brotherhood. Fear God. Honour the king.

2:18    你們作僕人的，凡事要存敬畏的心順服主人。不但順服那善良溫和的，就是那乖僻的也要順服。
Servants, be subject to your masters with all fear; not only to the good and gentle, but also to the froward.

2:19    倘若人為叫良心對得住神，就忍受冤屈的苦楚，這是可喜愛的。
For this is thankworthy, if a man for conscience toward God endure grief, suffering wrongfully.

2:20    你們若因犯罪受責打，能忍耐，有什麼可誇的呢。但你們若因行善受苦，若能忍耐，這在神看是可喜愛的。
For what glory is it, if, when ye be buffeted for your faults, ye shall take it patiently? but if, when ye do well, and suffer for it, ye take it patiently, this is acceptable with God.

2:21    你們蒙恩原是為此。因基督也為你們受過苦，給你們留下榜樣，叫你們跟隨他的腳蹤行。
For even hereunto were ye called: because Christ also suffered for us, leaving us an example, that ye should follow his steps:

2:22    他並沒有犯罪，口裡也沒有詭詐。
Who did no sin, neither was guile found in his mouth:

2:23    他被罵不還口。受害不說威嚇的話。只將自己交託那按公義審判人的主。
Who, when he was reviled, reviled not again; when he suffered, he threatened not; but committed himself to him that judgeth righteously:

2:24    他被掛在木頭上親身擔當了我們的罪，使我們既然在罪上死，就得以在義上活。因他受的鞭傷，你們便得醫治。
Who his own self bare our sins in his own body on the tree, that we, being dead to sins, should live unto righteousness: by whose stripes ye were healed.

2:25    你們從前好像迷路的羊。如今卻歸到你們靈魂的牧人監督了。
For ye were as sheep going astray; but are now returned unto the Shepherd and Bishop of your souls.




新約 -- 彼得前書(1Peter) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


3:1    你們作妻子的，要順服自己的丈夫。這樣，若有不信從道理的丈夫，他們雖然不聽道，也可以因妻子的品行被感化過來。
Likewise, ye wives, be in subjection to your own husbands; that, if any obey not the word, they also may without the word be won by the conversation of the wives;

3:2    這是因為看見你們有貞潔的品行，和敬畏的心。
While they behold your chaste conversation coupled with fear.

3:3    你們不要以外面的辮頭髮，戴金飾，穿美衣，為妝飾，
Whose adorning let it not be that outward adorning of plaiting the hair, and of wearing of gold, or of putting on of apparel;

3:4    只要以裡面存著長久溫柔安靜的心為妝飾。這在神面前是極寶貴的。
But let it be the hidden man of the heart, in that which is not corruptible, even the ornament of a meek and quiet spirit, which is in the sight of God of great price.

3:5    因為古時仰賴神的聖潔婦人，正是以此為妝飾，順服自己的丈夫。
For after this manner in the old time the holy women also, who trusted in God, adorned themselves, being in subjection unto their own husbands:

3:6    就如撒拉聽從亞伯拉罕，稱他為主。你們若行善，不因恐嚇而害怕，便是撒拉的女兒了。
Even as Sara obeyed Abraham, calling him lord: whose daughters ye are, as long as ye do well, and are not afraid with any amazement.

3:7    你們作丈夫的，也要按情理和妻子同住（情理原文作知識）。因他比你軟弱（比你軟弱原文是軟弱的器皿），與你一同承受生命之恩的，所以要敬重他。這樣便叫你們的禱告沒有阻礙。
Likewise, ye husbands, dwell with them according to knowledge, giving honour unto the wife, as unto the weaker vessel, and as being heirs together of the grace of life; that your prayers be not hindered.

3:8    總而言之，你們都要同心，彼此體恤，相愛如弟兄，存慈憐謙卑的心。
Finally, be ye all of one mind, having compassion one of another, love as brethren, be pitiful, be courteous:

3:9    不要以惡報惡，以辱罵還辱罵，倒要祝福。因你們是為此蒙召，好叫你們承受福氣。
Not rendering evil for evil, or railing for railing: but contrariwise blessing; knowing that ye are thereunto called, that ye should inherit a blessing.

3:10    因為經上說，人若愛生命，願享美福，須要禁止舌頭不出惡言，嘴脣不說詭詐的話。
For he that will love life, and see good days, let him refrain his tongue from evil, and his lips that they speak no guile:

3:11    也要離惡行善。尋求和睦，一心追趕。
Let him eschew evil, and do good; let him seek peace, and ensue it.

3:12    因為主的眼看顧義人，主的耳聽他們的祈禱。惟有行惡的人，主向他們變臉。
For the eyes of the Lord are over the righteous, and his ears are open unto their prayers: but the face of the Lord is against them that do evil.

3:13    你們若是熱心行善，有誰害你們呢。
And who is he that will harm you, if ye be followers of that which is good?

3:14    你們就是為義受苦，也是有福的。不要怕人的威嚇，也不要驚慌（的威嚇或作所怕的）。
But and if ye suffer for righteousness' sake, happy are ye: and be not afraid of their terror, neither be troubled;

3:15    只要心裡尊主基督為聖。有人問你們心中盼望的緣由，就要常作準備，以溫柔敬畏的心回答各人。
But sanctify the Lord God in your hearts: and be ready always to give an answer to every man that asketh you a reason of the hope that is in you with meekness and fear:

3:16    存著無虧的良心，叫你們在何事上被毀謗，就在何事上，可以叫那誣賴你們在基督裡有好品行的人，自覺羞愧。
Having a good conscience; that, whereas they speak evil of you, as of evildoers, they may be ashamed that falsely accuse your good conversation in Christ.

3:17    神的旨意若叫你們因行善受苦，總強如因行惡受苦。
For it is better, if the will of God be so, that ye suffer for well doing, than for evil doing.

3:18    因基督也曾一次為罪受苦（受苦有古卷作受死），就是義的代替不義的，為要引我們到神面前。按著肉體說他被治死。按著靈性說他復活了。
For Christ also hath once suffered for sins, the just for the unjust, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but quickened by the Spirit:

3:19    他藉這靈，曾去傳道給那些在監獄裡的靈聽。
By which also he went and preached unto the spirits in prison;

3:20    就是那從前在挪亞豫備方舟，神容忍等待的時候，不信從的人。當時進入方舟，藉著水得救的不多，只有八個人。
Which sometime were disobedient, when once the longsuffering of God waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was a preparing, wherein few, that is, eight souls were saved by water.

3:21    這水所表明的洗禮，現在藉著耶穌基督復活。也拯救你們。這洗禮本不在乎除掉肉體的汙穢，只求在神面前有無虧的良心。
The like figure whereunto even baptism doth also now save us (not the putting away of the filth of the flesh, but the answer of a good conscience toward God,) by the resurrection of Jesus Christ:

3:22    耶穌已經進入天堂，在神的右邊。眾天使和有權炳的，並有能力的，都服從了他。
Who is gone into heaven, and is on the right hand of God; angels and authorities and powers being made subject unto him.




新約 -- 彼得前書(1Peter) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


4:1    基督既在肉身受苦，你們也當將這樣的心志作為兵器。因為在肉身受過苦的，就已經與罪斷絕了。
Forasmuch then as Christ hath suffered for us in the flesh, arm yourselves likewise with the same mind: for he that hath suffered in the flesh hath ceased from sin;

4:2    你們存這樣的心，從今以後，就可以不從人的情慾，只從神的旨意，在世度餘下的光陰。
That he no longer should live the rest of his time in the flesh to the lusts of men, but to the will of God.

4:3    因為往日隨從外邦人的心意，行邪淫，惡欲，醉酒，荒宴，群飲，並可惡拜偶像的事，時候已經夠了。
For the time past of our life may suffice us to have wrought the will of the Gentiles, when we walked in lasciviousness, lusts, excess of wine, revellings, banquetings, and abominable idolatries:

4:4    他們在這些事上，見你們不與他們同奔那放蕩無度的路，就以為怪毀謗你們。
Wherein they think it strange that ye run not with them to the same excess of riot, speaking evil of you:

4:5    他們必在那將要審判活人死人的主面前交賬。
Who shall give account to him that is ready to judge the quick and the dead.

4:6    為此，就是死人也曾有福音傳給他們，要叫他們的肉體按著人受審判，他們的靈性卻靠神活著。
For for this cause was the gospel preached also to them that are dead, that they might be judged according to men in the flesh, but live according to God in the spirit.

4:7    萬物的結局近了。所以你們要謹慎自守，儆醒禱告。
But the end of all things is at hand: be ye therefore sober, and watch unto prayer.

4:8    最要緊的是彼此切實相愛。因為愛能遮掩許多的罪。
And above all things have fervent charity among yourselves: for charity shall cover the multitude of sins.

4:9    你們要互相款待，不發怨言。
Use hospitality one to another without grudging.

4:10    各人要照所得的恩賜彼此服事，作神百般恩賜的好管家。
As every man hath received the gift, even so minister the same one to another, as good stewards of the manifold grace of God.

4:11    若有講道的，要按著神的聖言講。若有服事人的，要按著神所賜的力量服事。叫神在凡事上因耶穌基督得榮耀。原來榮耀權能都是他的，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
If any man speak, let him speak as the oracles of God; if any man minister, let him do it as of the ability which God giveth: that God in all things may be glorified through Jesus Christ, to whom be praise and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

4:12    親愛的弟兄阿，有火煉的試驗臨到你們，不要以為奇怪，（似乎是遭遇非常的事）
Beloved, think it not strange concerning the fiery trial which is to try you, as though some strange thing happened unto you:

4:13    倒要歡喜。因為你們是與基督一同受苦，使你們在他榮耀顯現的時候，也可以歡喜快樂。
But rejoice, inasmuch as ye are partakers of Christ's sufferings; that, when his glory shall be revealed, ye may be glad also with exceeding joy.

4:14    你們若為基督的名受辱罵，便是有福的。因為神榮耀的靈，常住在你們身上。
If ye be reproached for the name of Christ, happy are ye; for the spirit of glory and of God resteth upon you: on their part he is evil spoken of, but on your part he is glorified.

4:15    你們中間卻不可有人，因為殺人，偷竊，作惡，好管閒事而受苦。
But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or as a thief, or as an evildoer, or as a busybody in other men's matters.

4:16    若為作基督徒受苦，卻不要羞恥。倒要因這名歸榮耀給神。
Yet if any man suffer as a Christian, let him not be ashamed; but let him glorify God on this behalf.

4:17    因為時候到了，審判要從神的家起首。若是先從我們起首，那不信從神福音的人，將有何等的結局呢。
For the time is come that judgment must begin at the house of God: and if it first begin at us, what shall the end be of them that obey not the gospel of God?

4:18    若是義人僅僅得救，那不虔敬和犯罪的人，將有何地可站呢。
And if the righteous scarcely be saved, where shall the ungodly and the sinner appear?

4:19    所以那照神旨意受苦的人，要一心為善，將自己靈魂交與那信實的造化之主。
Wherefore let them that suffer according to the will of God commit the keeping of their souls to him in well doing, as unto a faithful Creator.




新約 -- 彼得前書(1Peter) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


5:1    我這作長老，作基督受苦的見證，同享後來所要顯現之榮耀的，勸你們中間與我同作長老的人。
The elders which are among you I exhort, who am also an elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, and also a partaker of the glory that shall be revealed:

5:2    務要牧養在你們中間神的群羊，按著神旨意照管他們。不是出於勉強，乃是出於甘心。也不是因為貪財，乃是出於樂意。
Feed the flock of God which is among you, taking the oversight thereof, not by constraint, but willingly; not for filthy lucre, but of a ready mind;

5:3    也不是轄制所託付你們的，乃是作群羊的榜樣。
Neither as being lords over God's heritage, but being ensamples to the flock.

5:4    到了牧長顯現的時候，你們必得那永不衰殘的榮耀冠冕。
And when the chief Shepherd shall appear, ye shall receive a crown of glory that fadeth not away.

5:5    你們年幼的，也要順服年長的。就是你們眾人，也都要以謙卑束腰，彼此順服。因為神阻擋驕傲的人，賜恩給謙卑的人。
Likewise, ye younger, submit yourselves unto the elder. Yea, all of you be subject one to another, and be clothed with humility: for God resisteth the proud, and giveth grace to the humble.

5:6    所以你們要自卑，服在神大能的手下，到了時候他必叫你們升高。
Humble yourselves therefore under the mighty hand of God, that he may exalt you in due time:

5:7    你們要將一切的憂慮卸給神，因為他顧念你們。
Casting all your care upon him; for he careth for you.

5:8    務要謹守，儆醒。因為你們的仇敵魔鬼，如同吼叫的獅子，遍地遊行，尋梢可吞吃的人。
Be sober, be vigilant; because your adversary the devil, as a roaring lion, walketh about, seeking whom he may devour:

5:9    你們要用堅固的信心抵擋他，因為知道你們在世上的眾弟兄，也是經歷這樣的苦難。
Whom resist stedfast in the faith, knowing that the same afflictions are accomplished in your brethren that are in the world.



5:10    那賜諸般恩典的神，曾在基督裡召你們，得亨他永遠的榮耀，等你們暫受苦難之後，必要親自成全你們，堅固你們，賜力量給你們。
But the God of all grace, who hath called us unto his eternal glory by Christ Jesus, after that ye have suffered a while, make you perfect, stablish, strengthen, settle you.

5:11    願權能歸給他，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
To him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

5:12    我略略的寫了這信，託我所看為忠心的兄弟西拉轉交你們，勸勉你們，又證明這恩是神的真恩。你們務要在這恩上站立得住。
By Silvanus, a faithful brother unto you, as I suppose, I have written briefly, exhorting, and testifying that this is the true grace of God wherein ye stand.

5:13    在巴比倫與你們同蒙揀選的教會問你們安。我兒子馬可也問你們安。
The church that is at Babylon, elected together with you, saluteth you; and so doth Marcus my son.

5:14    你們要用愛心彼此親嘴問安。願平安歸與你們凡在基督裡的人。
Greet ye one another with a kiss of charity. Peace be with you all that are in Christ Jesus. Amen.


