
新約 -- 彼得後書(2Peter) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    作耶穌基督僕人和使徒的西門彼得，寫信給那因我們的神，和（有古卷無和字）救主耶穌基督之義，與我們同得一樣寶貴信心的人。
Simon Peter, a servant and an apostle of Jesus Christ, to them that have obtained like precious faith with us through the righteousness of God and our Saviour Jesus Christ:

1:2    願恩惠平安，因你們認識神和我們主耶穌，多多的加給你們。
Grace and peace be multiplied unto you through the knowledge of God, and of Jesus our Lord,

1:3    神的神能已經將一切關乎生命和虔敬的事賜給我們，皆因我們認識那用自己榮耀和美德召我們的主。
According as his divine power hath given unto us all things that pertain unto life and godliness, through the knowledge of him that hath called us to glory and virtue:

1:4    因此他已將又寶貴又極大的應許賜給我們，叫我們既脫離世上從情慾來的敗壞，就得與神的性情有分。
Whereby are given unto us exceeding great and precious promises: that by these ye might be partakers of the divine nature, having escaped the corruption that is in the world through lust.

1:5    正因這緣故，你們要分外的殷勤。有了信心，又要加上德行。有了德行，又要加上知識。
And beside this, giving all diligence, add to your faith virtue; and to virtue knowledge;

1:6    有了知識，又要加上節制。有了節制，又要加上忍耐。有了忍耐，又要加上虔敬。
And to knowledge temperance; and to temperance patience; and to patience godliness;

1:7    有了虔敬，又要加上愛弟兄的心。有了愛弟兄的心，又要加上愛眾人的心
And to godliness brotherly kindness; and to brotherly kindness charity.

1:8    你們若充充足足的有這幾樣，就必使你們在認識我們的主耶穌基督上，不至於閒懶不結果子了。
For if these things be in you, and abound, they make you that ye shall neither be barren nor unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:9    人若沒有這幾樣，就是眼瞎，只看見近處的，忘了他舊日的罪已經得了潔淨。
But he that lacketh these things is blind, and cannot see afar off, and hath forgotten that he was purged from his old sins.

1:10    所以弟兄們，應當更加殷勤，使你們所蒙的恩召和揀選堅定不移。你們若行這幾樣，就永不失腳。
Wherefore the rather, brethren, give diligence to make your calling and election sure: for if ye do these things, ye shall never fall:

1:11    這樣，必叫你們豐豐富富的，得以進入我們主救主耶穌基督永遠的國。
For so an entrance shall be ministered unto you abundantly into the everlasting kingdom of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ.

1:12    你們雖然曉得這些事，並且在你們已有的真道上堅固，我卻要將這些事常常題醒你們。
Wherefore I will not be negligent to put you always in remembrance of these things, though ye know them, and be established in the present truth.

1:13    我以為應當趁我還在這帳棚的時候題醒你們，激發你們。
Yea, I think it meet, as long as I am in this tabernacle, to stir you up by putting you in remembrance;

1:14    因為知道我脫離這帳棚的時候快到了，正如我們主耶穌基督所指示我的。
Knowing that shortly I must put off this my tabernacle, even as our Lord Jesus Christ hath shewed me.

1:15    並且我盡心竭力，使你們在我去世以後，時常記念這些事。
Moreover I will endeavour that ye may be able after my decease to have these things always in remembrance.

1:16    我們從前，將我們主耶穌基督的大能，和他降臨的事，告訴你們，並不是隨從乖巧捏造的虛言，乃是親眼見過他的威榮。
For we have not followed cunningly devised fables, when we made known unto you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but were eyewitnesses of his majesty.

1:17    他從父神得尊貴榮耀的時候，從極大榮光之中，有聲音出來向他說，這是我的愛子，我所喜悅的。
For he received from God the Father honour and glory, when there came such a voice to him from the excellent glory, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased.

1:18    我們同他在聖山的時候，親自聽見這聲音從天上出來。
And this voice which came from heaven we heard, when we were with him in the holy mount.

1:19    我們並有先知更確的預言，如同燈照在暗處。你們在這預言上留意，直等到天發亮晨星在你們心裡出現的時候，才是好的。
We have also a more sure word of prophecy; whereunto ye do well that ye take heed, as unto a light that shineth in a dark place, until the day dawn, and the day star arise in your hearts:

1:20    第一要緊的，該知道經上所有的預言，沒有可隨私意解說的。
Knowing this first, that no prophecy of the scripture is of any private interpretation.

1:21    因為預言從來沒有出於人意的，乃是人被聖靈感動說出神的話來。
For the prophecy came not in old time by the will of man: but holy men of God spake as they were moved by the Holy Ghost.




新約 -- 彼得後書(2Peter) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　　


2:1    從前在百姓中有假先知起來，將來在你們中間，也必有假師傅，私自引進害人的異端，連買他們的主他們也不承認，自取速速的滅亡。
But there were false prophets also among the people, even as there shall be false teachers among you, who privily shall bring in damnable heresies, even denying the Lord that bought them, and bring upon themselves swift destruction.

2:2    將有許多人隨從他們邪淫的行為，便叫真道，因他們的緣故被毀謗。
And many shall follow their pernicious ways; by reason of whom the way of truth shall be evil spoken of.

2:3    他們因有貪心，要用捏造的言語，在你們身上取利。他們的刑罰，自古以來並不遲延，他們的滅亡也必速速來到（原文作也不打盹）。
And through covetousness shall they with feigned words make merchandise of you: whose judgment now of a long time lingereth not, and their damnation slumbereth not.

2:4    就是天使犯了罪，神也沒有寬容，曾把他們丟在地獄，交在黑暗坑中，等候審判。
For if God spared not the angels that sinned, but cast them down to hell, and delivered them into chains of darkness, to be reserved unto judgment;

2:5    神也沒有寬容上古的世代，曾叫洪水臨到那不敬虔的世代，卻保護了傳義道的挪亞一家八口。
And spared not the old world, but saved Noah the eighth person, a preacher of righteousness, bringing in the flood upon the world of the ungodly;

2:6    又判定所多瑪，蛾摩拉，將二城傾覆，焚燒成灰，作為後世不敬虔人的監戒。
And turning the cities of Sodom and Gomorrha into ashes condemned them with an overthrow, making them an ensample unto those that after should live ungodly;

2:7    只搭救了那常為惡人淫行憂傷的義人羅得。
And delivered just Lot, vexed with the filthy conversation of the wicked:

2:8    因為那義人住在他們中間，看見聽見他們不法的事，他的義心就天天傷痛。
(For that righteous man dwelling among them, in seeing and hearing, vexed his righteous soul from day to day with their unlawful deeds;)

2:9    主知道搭救敬虔的人脫離試探，把不義的人留在刑罰之下，等候審判的日子。
The Lord knoweth how to deliver the godly out of temptations, and to reserve the unjust unto the day of judgment to be punished:

2:10    那些隨肉身，縱汙穢的情慾，輕慢主治之人的，更是如此。他們膽大任性，毀謗在尊位的也不知懼怕。
But chiefly them that walk after the flesh in the lust of uncleanness, and despise government. Presumptuous are they, selfwilled, they are not afraid to speak evil of dignities.

2:11    就是天使，雖然力量權能更大，還不用毀謗的話在主面前告他們。
Whereas angels, which are greater in power and might, bring not railing accusation against them before the Lord.

2:12    但這些人好像沒有靈性，生來就是畜類，以備捉拿宰殺的。他們毀謗所不曉得的事，正在敗壞人的時候，自己必遭遇敗壞。
But these, as natural brute beasts, made to be taken and destroyed, speak evil of the things that they understand not; and shall utterly perish in their own corruption;

2:13    行的不義，就得了不義的工價。這些人喜愛白晝宴樂，他們已被玷汙，又有瑕疵，正與你們一同坐席，就以自己的詭詐為快樂。
And shall receive the reward of unrighteousness, as they that count it pleasure to riot in the day time. Spots they are and blemishes, sporting themselves with their own deceivings while they feast with you;

2:14    他們滿眼是淫色（淫色原文作淫婦），止不住犯罪。引誘那心不堅固的人，心中習慣了貪婪，正是被咒詛的種類。
Having eyes full of adultery, and that cannot cease from sin; beguiling unstable souls: an heart they have exercised with covetous practices; cursed children:

2:15    他們離棄正路，就走差了，隨從比珥之子巴蘭的路，巴蘭就是那貪愛不義之工價的先知。
Which have forsaken the right way, and are gone astray, following the way of Balaam the son of Bosor, who loved the wages of unrighteousness;

2:16    他們卻為自己的過犯受了責備。那不能說話的驢，以人言攔阻先知的狂妄。
But was rebuked for his iniquity: the dumb ass speaking with man's voice forbad the madness of the prophet.

2:17    這些人是無水的井，是狂風催逼的霧氣，有墨黑的幽暗為他們存留。
These are wells without water, clouds that are carried with a tempest; to whom the mist of darkness is reserved for ever.

2:18    他們說虛妄矜誇的大話，用肉身的情慾，和邪淫的事，引誘那些剛才脫離妄行的人。
For when they speak great swelling words of vanity, they allure through the lusts of the flesh, through much wantonness, those that were clean escaped from them who live in error.

2:19    他們應許人得以自由，自己卻作敗壞的奴僕。因為人被誰制伏就是誰的奴僕。
While they promise them liberty, they themselves are the servants of corruption: for of whom a man is overcome, of the same is he brought in bondage.

2:20    倘若他們因認識主救主耶穌基督，得以脫離世上的汙穢，後來又在其中被纏住制伏，他們末後的景況，就比先前更不好了。
For if after they have escaped the pollutions of the world through the knowledge of the Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ, they are again entangled therein, and overcome, the latter end is worse with them than the beginning.

2:21    他們曉得義路，竟背棄了傳給他們的聖命，倒不如不曉得為妙。
For it had been better for them not to have known the way of righteousness, than, after they have known it, to turn from the holy commandment delivered unto them.

2:22    俗語說得真不錯，狗所吐的他轉過來又吃。豬洗淨了又回到泥裡去輥。這話在他們身上正合式。
But it is happened unto them according to the true proverb, The dog is turned to his own vomit again; and the sow that was washed to her wallowing in the mire.




新約 -- 彼得後書(2Peter) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    親愛的兄弟阿，我現在寫給你們的是第二封信。這兩封都是題醒你們，激發你們誠實的心。
This second epistle, beloved, I now write unto you; in both which I stir up your pure minds by way of remembrance:

3:2    叫你們記念聖先知豫先所說的話，和主救主的命令，就是使徒所傳給你們的。
That ye may be mindful of the words which were spoken before by the holy prophets, and of the commandment of us the apostles of the Lord and Saviour:

3:3    第一要緊的，該知道在末世必有好譏誚的人，隨從自己的私慾出來譏誚說，
Knowing this first, that there shall come in the last days scoffers, walking after their own lusts,

3:4    主要降臨的應許在那裡呢。因為從列祖睡了以來，萬物與起初創造的時候仍是一樣。
And saying, Where is the promise of his coming? for since the fathers fell asleep, all things continue as they were from the beginning of the creation.

3:5    他們故意忘記，從太古憑神的命有了天，並從水而出藉水而成的地。
For this they willingly are ignorant of, that by the word of God the heavens were of old, and the earth standing out of the water and in the water:

3:6    故此，當時的世界被水淹沒就消滅了。
Whereby the world that then was, being overflowed with water, perished:

3:7    但現在的天地，還是憑著那命存留，直留到不敬虔之人受審判遭沈淪的日子，用火焚燒。
But the heavens and the earth, which are now, by the same word are kept in store, reserved unto fire against the day of judgment and perdition of ungodly men.

3:8    親愛的弟兄阿，有一件事你們不可忘記，就是主看一日如千年，千年如一日。
But, beloved, be not ignorant of this one thing, that one day is with the Lord as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day.

3:9    主所應許的尚未成就，有人以為他是耽延，其實不是耽延，乃是寬容你們，不願有一人沈淪，乃願人人都悔改。
The Lord is not slack concerning his promise, as some men count slackness; but is longsuffering to us-ward, not willing that any should perish, but that all should come to repentance.

3:10    但主的日子要像賊來到一樣。那日天必大有響聲廢去，有形質的都要被烈火銷化。地和其上的物都要燒盡了。
But the day of the Lord will come as a thief in the night; in the which the heavens shall pass away with a great noise, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat, the earth also and the works that are therein shall be burned up.

3:11    這一切既都要如此銷化，你們為人該當怎樣聖潔，怎樣敬虔，
Seeing then that all these things shall be dissolved, what manner of persons ought ye to be in all holy conversation and godliness,

3:12    切切仰望神的日子來到。在那日天被燒就銷化了，有形質的都要被烈火熔化。
Looking for and hasting unto the coming of the day of God, wherein the heavens being on fire shall be dissolved, and the elements shall melt with fervent heat?

3:13    但我們照他的應許，盼望新天新地，有義居在其中。
Nevertheless we, according to his promise, look for new heavens and a new earth, wherein dwelleth righteousness.

3:14    親愛的弟兄阿，你們既盼望這些事，就當殷勤，使自己沒有玷汙，無可指摘，安然見主。
Wherefore, beloved, seeing that ye look for such things, be diligent that ye may be found of him in peace, without spot, and blameless.

3:15    並且要以我主長久忍耐為得救的因由，就如我們所親愛的兄弟保羅，照著所賜給他的智慧，寫了信給你們。
And account that the longsuffering of our Lord is salvation; even as our beloved brother Paul also according to the wisdom given unto him hath written unto you;

3:16    他一切的信上，也都是講論這事。信中有些難明白的，那無學問不堅固的人強解，如強解別的經書一樣，就自取沈淪。
As also in all his epistles, speaking in them of these things; in which are some things hard to be understood, which they that are unlearned and unstable wrest, as they do also the other scriptures, unto their own destruction.

3:17    親愛的弟兄阿，你們既然豫先知道這事，就當防備，恐怕被惡人的錯謬誘惑，就從自己堅固的地步上墜落。
Ye therefore, beloved, seeing ye know these things before, beware lest ye also, being led away with the error of the wicked, fall from your own stedfastness.

3:18    你們卻要在我們主救主耶穌基督的恩典和知識上有長進。願榮耀歸給他，從今直到永遠。阿們。
But grow in grace, and in the knowledge of our Lord and Saviour Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and for ever. Amen.




