






新約 -- 約翰壹書(1 John) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


1:1    論到從起初原有的生命之道，就是我們所聽見所看見的，親眼看過，親手摸過的。
That which was from the beginning, which we have heard, which we have seen with our eyes, which we have looked upon, and our hands have handled, of the Word of life;

1:2    （這生命已經顯現出來，我們也看見過，現在又作見證，將原與父同在，且顯現與我們那永遠的生命，傳給你們）。
(For the life was manifested, and we have seen it, and bear witness, and shew unto you that eternal life, which was with the Father, and was manifested unto us;)

1:3    我們將所看見，所聽見的，傳給你們，使你們與我們相交。我們乃是與父並他兒子耶穌基督相交的。
That which we have seen and heard declare we unto you, that ye also may have fellowship with us: and truly our fellowship is with the Father, and with his Son Jesus Christ.

1:4    我們將這些話寫給你們，使你們（有古卷作我們）的喜樂充足。
And these things write we unto you, that your joy may be full.

1:5    神就是光，在他毫無黑暗。這是我們從主所聽見，又報給你們的資訊。
This then is the message which we have heard of him, and declare unto you, that God is light, and in him is no darkness at all.

1:6    我們若說是與神相交，卻仍在黑暗裡行，就是說謊話，不行真理了。
If we say that we have fellowship with him, and walk in darkness, we lie, and do not the truth:

1:7    我們若在光明中行，如同神在光明中，就彼此相交，他兒子耶穌的血也洗淨我們一切的罪。
But if we walk in the light, as he is in the light, we have fellowship one with another, and the blood of Jesus Christ his Son cleanseth us from all sin.

1:8    我們若說自己無罪，便是自欺，真裡不在我們心裡了。
If we say that we have no sin, we deceive ourselves, and the truth is not in us.

1:9    我們若認自己的罪，神是信實的，是公義的，必要赦免我們的罪，洗淨我們一切的不義。
If we confess our sins, he is faithful and just to forgive us our sins, and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness.

1:10    我們若說自己沒有犯過罪，便是以神為說謊的。他的道也不在我們心裡了。
If we say that we have not sinned, we make him a liar, and his word is not in us.




新約 -- 約翰壹書(1 John) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


2:1    我小子們哪，我將這些話寫給你們，是要叫你們不犯罪。若有人犯罪，在父那裡我們有一位中保，就是那義者耶穌基督。
My little children, these things write I unto you, that ye sin not. And if any man sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous:

2:2    他為我們的罪作了挽回祭。不是單為我們的罪，也是為普天下人的罪。
And he is the propitiation for our sins: and not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world.

2:3    我們若遵守他的誡命，就曉得是認識他。
And hereby we do know that we know him, if we keep his commandments.

2:4    人若說我認識他，卻不遵守他的誡命，便是說謊話的。真裡也不在他心裡了。
He that saith, I know him, and keepeth not his commandments, is a liar, and the truth is not in him.

2:5    凡遵守主道的，愛神的心在他裡面實在是完全的，從此我們知道我們是在主裡面。
But whoso keepeth his word, in him verily is the love of God perfected: hereby know we that we are in him.

2:6    人若說他住在主裡面，就該自己照主所行的去行。
He that saith he abideth in him ought himself also so to walk, even as he walked.

2:7    親愛的弟兄阿，我寫給你們的，不是一條新命令，乃是你們從起初所受的舊命令。這舊命令就是你們所聽見的道。
Brethren, I write no new commandment unto you, but an old commandment which ye had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word which ye have heard from the beginning.

2:8    再者，我寫給你們的，是一條新命令，在主是真的，在你們也是真的。因為黑暗漸漸過去，真光已經照耀。
Again, a new commandment I write unto you, which thing is true in him and in you: because the darkness is past, and the true light now shineth.

2:9    人若說自己在光明中。卻恨他的弟兄，他到如今還是在黑暗裡。
He that saith he is in the light, and hateth his brother, is in darkness even until now.

2:10    愛弟兄的就是住在光明中，在他並沒有絆跌的緣由。
He that loveth his brother abideth in the light, and there is none occasion of stumbling in him.

2:11    唯獨恨弟兄的是在黑暗裡，且在黑暗裡行，也不知道往那裡去，因為黑暗叫他眼睛瞎了。
But he that hateth his brother is in darkness, and walketh in darkness, and knoweth not whither he goeth, because that darkness hath blinded his eyes.

2:12    小子們哪，我寫信給你們，因為你們的罪藉著主名得了赦免。
I write unto you, little children, because your sins are forgiven you for his name's sake.

2:13    父老阿，我寫信給你們，因為你們認識那從起初原有的。少年人哪，我寫信給你們，因為你們勝了那惡者。小子們哪，我曾寫信給你們，因為你們認識父。
I write unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I write unto you, young men, because ye have overcome the wicked one. I write unto you, little children, because ye have known the Father.

2:14    父老阿，我曾寫信給你們，因為你們認識那從起初原有的。少年人哪，我曾寫信給你們，因為你們剛強，神的道常存在你們心裡，你們也勝了那惡者。
I have written unto you, fathers, because ye have known him that is from the beginning. I have written unto you, young men, because ye are strong, and the word of God abideth in you, and ye have overcome the wicked one.



2:15    不要愛世界，和世界上的事。人若愛世界，愛父的心就不在他裡面了。
Love not the world, neither the things that are in the world. If any man love the world, the love of the Father is not in him.

2:16    因為凡世界上的事，就像肉體的情慾，眼目的情慾，並今生的驕傲，都不是從父來的，乃是從世界來的。
For all that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, and the lust of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not of the Father, but is of the world.

2:17    這世界，和其上的情慾，都要過去。唯獨遵行神旨意的，是永遠常存。
And the world passeth away, and the lust thereof: but he that doeth the will of God abideth for ever.

2:18    小子們哪，如今是末時了。你們曾聽見說，那敵基督的要來現在已經有好些敵基督的出來了。從此我們就知道如今是末時了。
Little children, it is the last time: and as ye have heard that antichrist shall come, even now are there many antichrists; whereby we know that it is the last time.

2:19    他們從我們中間出去，卻不是屬我們的。若是屬我們的，就必仍舊與我們同在。他們出去，顯明都不是屬我們的。
They went out from us, but they were not of us; for if they had been of us, they would no doubt have continued with us: but they went out, that they might be made manifest that they were not all of us.

2:20    你們從那聖者受了恩膏，並且知道這一切的事。（或作都有知識）
But ye have an unction from the Holy One, and ye know all things.

2:21    我寫信給你們，不是因你們不知道真理，正是因你們知道，並且知道沒有虛謊是從真理出來的。
I have not written unto you because ye know not the truth, but because ye know it, and that no lie is of the truth.

2:22    誰是說謊話的呢。不是那不認耶穌為基督的嗎。不認父與子的，這就是敵基督的。
Who is a liar but he that denieth that Jesus is the Christ? He is antichrist, that denieth the Father and the Son.

2:23    凡不認子的就沒有父。認子的連父也有了。
Whosoever denieth the Son, the same hath not the Father: he that acknowledgeth the Son hath the Father also.

2:24    論到你們，務要將那從起初所聽見的常存在心裡。若將從起初所聽見的存在心裡，你們就必住在子裡面，也必住在父裡面。
Let that therefore abide in you, which ye have heard from the beginning. If that which ye have heard from the beginning shall remain in you, ye also shall continue in the Son, and in the Father.

2:25    主所應許我們的就是永生。
And this is the promise that he hath promised us, even eternal life.

2:26    我將這些話寫給你們，是指著那引誘你們的人說的。
These things have I written unto you concerning them that seduce you.

2:27    你們從主所受的恩膏，常存在你們心裡，並不用人教訓你們。自有主的恩膏在凡事上教訓你們。這恩膏是真的，不是假的。你們要按這恩膏的教訓，住在主裡面。
But the anointing which ye have received of him abideth in you, and ye need not that any man teach you: but as the same anointing teacheth you of all things, and is truth, and is no lie, and even as it hath taught you, ye shall abide in him.

2:28    小子們哪，你們要住在主裡面。這樣，他若顯現，我們就可以坦然無懼。當他來的時候，在他面前也不至於慚愧。
And now, little children, abide in him; that, when he shall appear, we may have confidence, and not be ashamed before him at his coming.

2:29    你們若知道他是公義的，就知道凡行公義之人都是他所生的。
If ye know that he is righteous, ye know that every one that doeth righteousness is born of him.




新約 -- 約翰壹書(1 John) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


3:1    你看父賜給我們是何等的慈愛，使我們得稱為神的兒女。我們也真是他的兒女。世人所以不認識我們，是因未曾認識他。
Behold, what manner of love the Father hath bestowed upon us, that we should be called the sons of God: therefore the world knoweth us not, because it knew him not.

3:2    親愛的弟兄阿，我們現在是神的兒女，將來如何，還未顯明。但我們知道主若顯現，我們必要像他。因為必得見他的真體。
Beloved, now are we the sons of God, and it doth not yet appear what we shall be: but we know that, when he shall appear, we shall be like him; for we shall see him as he is.

3:3    凡向他有這指望的，就潔淨自己，像他潔淨一樣。
And every man that hath this hope in him purifieth himself, even as he is pure.

3:4    凡犯罪的，就是違背律法。違背律法就是罪。
Whosoever committeth sin transgresseth also the law: for sin is the transgression of the law.

3:5    你們知道主曾顯現，是要除掉人的罪。在他並沒有罪。
And ye know that he was manifested to take away our sins; and in him is no sin.

3:6    凡住在他裡面的，就不犯罪。凡犯罪的，是未曾看見他，也未曾認識他。
Whosoever abideth in him sinneth not: whosoever sinneth hath not seen him, neither known him.

3:7    小子們哪，不要被人誘惑，行義的才是義人。正如主是義的一樣。
Little children, let no man deceive you: he that doeth righteousness is righteous, even as he is righteous.

3:8    犯罪的是屬魔鬼，因為魔鬼從起初就犯罪。神的兒子顯現出來，為要除滅魔鬼的作為。
He that committeth sin is of the devil; for the devil sinneth from the beginning. For this purpose the Son of God was manifested, that he might destroy the works of the devil.

3:9    凡從神生的就不犯罪，因神的道（原文作種）存在他心裡。他也不能犯罪，因為他是由神生的。
Whosoever is born of God doth not commit sin; for his seed remaineth in him: and he cannot sin, because he is born of God.

3:10    從此就顯明出誰是神的兒女，誰是魔鬼的兒女。凡不行義的，就不屬神。不愛弟兄的也是如此。
In this the children of God are manifest, and the children of the devil: whosoever doeth not righteousness is not of God, neither he that loveth not his brother.

3:11    我們應當彼此相愛。這就是你們從起初所聽見的命令。
For this is the message that ye heard from the beginning, that we should love one another.

3:12    不可像該隱。他是屬那惡者，殺了他的兄弟。為什麼殺了他呢。因為自己的行為是惡的，兄弟的行為是善的。
Not as Cain, who was of that wicked one, and slew his brother. And wherefore slew he him? Because his own works were evil, and his brother's righteous.

3:13    弟兄們，世人若恨你們，不要以為希奇。
Marvel not, my brethren, if the world hate you.

3:14    我們因為愛弟兄，就曉得是已經出死入生了。沒有愛心的，仍住在死中。
We know that we have passed from death unto life, because we love the brethren. He that loveth not his brother abideth in death.

3:15    凡恨他弟兄的，就是殺人的。你們曉得凡殺人的，沒有永生存在他裡面。
Whosoever hateth his brother is a murderer: and ye know that no murderer hath eternal life abiding in him.

3:16    主為我們捨命，我們從此就知道何為愛。我們也應當為弟兄捨命。
Hereby perceive we the love of God, because he laid down his life for us: and we ought to lay down our lives for the brethren.

3:17    凡有世上財物的，看見弟兄窮乏，卻塞住憐恤的心，愛神的心怎能存在他裡面呢。
But whoso hath this world's good, and seeth his brother have need, and shutteth up his bowels of compassion from him, how dwelleth the love of God in him?

3:18    小子們哪，我們相愛，不要只在言語和舌頭上。總要在行為和誠實上。
My little children, let us not love in word, neither in tongue; but in deed and in truth.

3:19    從此就知道我們是屬真理的，並且我們的心在神面前可以安穩。
And hereby we know that we are of the truth, and shall assure our hearts before him.

3:20    我們的心若責備我們，神比我們的心大，一切事沒有不知道的。
For if our heart condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and knoweth all things.

3:21    親愛的弟兄阿，我們的心若不責備我們，就可以向神坦然無懼了。
Beloved, if our heart condemn us not, then have we confidence toward God.

3:22    並且我們一切所求的，就從他得著。因為我們遵守他的命令，行他所喜悅的事。
And whatsoever we ask, we receive of him, because we keep his commandments, and do those things that are pleasing in his sight.

3:23    神的命令就是叫我們信他兒子耶穌基督的名，且照他所賜給我們的命令彼此相愛。
And this is his commandment, That we should believe on the name of his Son Jesus Christ, and love one another, as he gave us commandment.

3:24    遵守神命令的，就住在神裡面。神也住在他裡面。我們所以知道神住在我們裡面，是因他所賜給我們的聖靈。
And he that keepeth his commandments dwelleth in him, and he in him. And hereby we know that he abideth in us, by the Spirit which he hath given us.




新約 -- 約翰壹書(1 John) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　　


4:1    親愛的弟兄阿，一切的靈，你們不可都信。總要試驗那些靈是出於神的不是。因為世上有許多假先知已經出來了。
Beloved, believe not every spirit, but try the spirits whether they are of God: because many false prophets are gone out into the world.

4:2    凡靈認耶穌基督是成了肉身來的，就是出於神的。從此你們可以認出神的靈來。
Hereby know ye the Spirit of God: Every spirit that confesseth that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is of God:

4:3    凡靈不認耶穌，就不是出於神。這是敵基督者的靈。你們從前聽見他要來。現在已經在世上了。
And every spirit that confesseth not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh is not of God: and this is that spirit of antichrist, whereof ye have heard that it should come; and even now already is it in the world.

4:4    小子們哪，你們是屬神的，並且勝了他們。因為那在你們裡面的，比那在世界上的更大。
Ye are of God, little children, and have overcome them: because greater is he that is in you, than he that is in the world.

4:5    他們是屬世界的。所以論世界的事，世人也聽從他們。
They are of the world: therefore speak they of the world, and the world heareth them.

4:6    我們是屬神的。認識神的就聽從我們。不屬神的就不聽從我們。從此我們可以認出真理的靈，和謬妄的靈來。
We are of God: he that knoweth God heareth us; he that is not of God heareth not us. Hereby know we the spirit of truth, and the spirit of error.

4:7    親愛的弟兄阿，我們應當彼此相愛。因為愛是從神來的。凡有愛心的，都是由神而生，並且認識神。
Beloved, let us love one another: for love is of God; and every one that loveth is born of God, and knoweth God.

4:8    沒有愛心的，就不認識神。因為神就是愛。
He that loveth not knoweth not God; for God is love.

4:9    神差他獨生子到世間來，使我們藉著他得生，神愛我們的心，在此就顯明瞭。
In this was manifested the love of God toward us, because that God sent his only begotten Son into the world, that we might live through him.

4:10    不是我們愛神，乃是神愛我們，差他的兒子，為我們的罪作了挽回祭，這就是愛了。
Herein is love, not that we loved God, but that he loved us, and sent his Son to be the propitiation for our sins.

4:11    親愛的弟兄阿，神既是這樣愛我們，我們也當彼此相愛。
Beloved, if God so loved us, we ought also to love one another.

4:12    從來沒有人見過神。我們若彼此相愛，神就住在我們裡面，愛他的心在我們裡面得以完全了。
No man hath seen God at any time. If we love one another, God dwelleth in us, and his love is perfected in us.

4:13    神將他的靈賜給我們，從此就知道我們是住在他裡面，他也住在我們裡面。
Hereby know we that we dwell in him, and he in us, because he hath given us of his Spirit.

4:14    父差子作世人的救主，這是我們所看見且作見證的。
And we have seen and do testify that the Father sent the Son to be the Saviour of the world.

4:15    凡認耶穌為神兒子的，神就住在他裡面。
Whosoever shall confess that Jesus is the Son of God, God dwelleth in him, and he in God.



4:16    神愛我們的心，我們也知道也信。神就是愛。住在愛裡面的，就住在神裡面，神也住在他裡面。
And we have known and believed the love that God hath to us. God is love; and he that dwelleth in love dwelleth in God, and God in him.

4:17    這樣愛在我們裡面得以完全，我們就可以在審判的日子，坦然無懼。因為他如何，我們在這世上也如何。
Herein is our love made perfect, that we may have boldness in the day of judgment: because as he is, so are we in this world.

4:18    愛裡沒有懼怕。愛既完全，就把懼怕除去。因為懼怕理含著刑罰。懼怕的人在愛裡未得完全。
There is no fear in love; but perfect love casteth out fear: because fear hath torment. He that feareth is not made perfect in love.

4:19    我們愛，因為神先愛我們。
We love him, because he first loved us.

4:20    人若說，我愛神，卻恨他的弟兄，就是說謊話的。不愛他所看見的弟兄，就不能愛沒有看見的神。（有古卷作怎能愛沒有看見的神呢）。
If a man say, I love God, and hateth his brother, he is a liar: for he that loveth not his brother whom he hath seen, how can he love God whom he hath not seen?

4:21    愛神的，也當愛弟兄，這是我們從神所受的命令。
And this commandment have we from him, That he who loveth God love his brother also.


新約 -- 約翰壹書(1 John) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )  [瑋倫自行補上]  　　


5:1	[hb5] 	凡 信 耶 穌 是 基 督 的 、 都 是 從 　 神 而 生 ． 凡 愛 生 他 之 　 神 的 、 也 必 愛 從 　 神 生 的 。
   	[kjv] 	Whosoever believeth that Jesus is the Christ is born of God: and every one that loveth him that begat loveth him also that is begotten of him.
   	[bbe] 	Everyone who has faith that Jesus is the Christ is a child of God: and everyone who has love for the Father has love for his child.
5:2	[hb5] 	我 們 若 愛 　 神 、 又 遵 守 他 的 誡 命 、 從 此 就 知 道 我 們 愛 　 神 的 兒 女 。
   	[kjv] 	By this we know that we love the children of God, when we love God, and keep his commandments.
   	[bbe] 	In this way, we are certain that we have love for the children of God, when we have love for God and keep his laws.
5:3	[hb5] 	我 們 遵 守 　 神 的 誡 命 、 這 就 是 愛 他 了 ． 並 且 他 的 誡 命 不 是 難 守 的 。
   	[kjv] 	For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments: and his commandments are not grievous.
   	[bbe] 	For loving God is keeping his laws: and his laws are not hard.
5:4	[hb5] 	因 為 凡 從 　 神 生 的 、 就 勝 過 世 界 ． 使 我 們 勝 了 世 界 的 、 就 是 我 們 的 信 心 。
   	[kjv] 	For whatsoever is born of God overcometh the world: and this is the victory that overcometh the world, even our faith.
   	[bbe] 	Anything which comes from God is able to overcome the world: and the power by which we have overcome the world is our faith.
5:5	[hb5] 	勝 過 世 界 的 是 誰 呢 ． 不 是 那 信 耶 穌 是 　 神 兒 子 的 麼 ．
   	[kjv] 	Who is he that overcometh the world, but he that believeth that Jesus is the Son of God?
   	[bbe] 	Who is able to overcome the world but the man who has faith that Jesus is the Son of God?
5:6	[hb5] 	這 藉 著 水 和 血 而 來 的 就 是 耶 穌 基 督 ． 不 是 單 用 水 、 乃 是 用 水 又 用 血 。
   	[kjv] 	This is he that came by water and blood, even Jesus Christ; not by water only, but by water and blood. And it is the Spirit that beareth witness, because the Spirit is truth.
   	[bbe] 	This is he who came by water and by blood, Jesus Christ; not by water only but by water and by blood.
5:7	[hb5] 	並 且 有 聖 靈 作 見 證 、 因 為 聖 靈 就 是 真 理 。
   	[kjv] 	For there are three that bear record in heaven, the Father, the Word, and the Holy Ghost: and these three are one.
   	[bbe] 	And the Spirit is the witness, because the Spirit is true.
5:8	[hb5] 	作 見 證 的 原 來 有 三 、 就 是 聖 靈 、 水 、 與 血 這 三 樣 也 都 歸 於 一 。
   	[kjv] 	And there are three that bear witness in earth, the Spirit, and the water, and the blood: and these three agree in one.
   	[bbe] 	There are three witnesses, the Spirit, the water, and the blood: and all three are in agreement.
5:9	[hb5] 	我 們 既 領 受 人 的 見 證 、 　 神 的 見 證 更 該 領 受 了 ． 〔 該 領 受 原 文 作 大 〕 因 　 神 的 見 證 、 是 為 他 兒 子 作 的 。
   	[kjv] 	If we receive the witness of men, the witness of God is greater: for this is the witness of God which he hath testified of his Son.
   	[bbe] 	If we take the witness of men to be true, the witness of God is greater: because this is the witness which God has given about his Son.
5:10	[hb5] 	信 　 神 兒 子 的 、 就 有 這 見 證 在 他 心 裡 ． 不 信 　 神 的 、 就 是 將 　 神 當 作 說 謊 的 ． 因 不 信 　 神 為 他 兒 子 作 的 見 證 。
   	[kjv] 	He that believeth on the Son of God hath the witness in himself: he that believeth not God hath made him a liar; because he believeth not the record that God gave of his Son.
   	[bbe] 	He who has faith in the Son of God has the witness in himself: he who has not faith in God makes him false, because he has not faith in the witness which God has given about his Son.
5:11	[hb5] 	這 見 證 、 就 是 　 神 賜 給 我 們 永 生 、 這 永 生 也 是 在 他 兒 子 裡 面 。
   	[kjv] 	And this is the record, that God hath given to us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
   	[bbe] 	And his witness is this, that God has given us eternal life, and this life is in his Son.
5:12	[hb5] 	人 有 了 　 神 的 兒 子 就 有 生 命 ． 沒 有 　 神 的 兒 子 就 沒 有 生 命 。
   	[kjv] 	He that hath the Son hath life; and he that hath not the Son of God hath not life.
   	[bbe] 	He who has the Son has the life; he who has not the Son of God has not the life.
5:13	[hb5] 	我 將 這 些 話 寫 給 你 們 信 奉 　 神 兒 子 之 名 的 人 、 要 叫 你 們 知 道 自 己 有 永 生 。
   	[kjv] 	These things have I written unto you that believe on the name of the Son of God; that ye may know that ye have eternal life, and that ye may believe on the name of the Son of God.
   	[bbe] 	I have put these things in writing for you who have faith in the name of the Son of God, so that you may be certain that you have eternal life.
5:14	[hb5] 	我 們 若 照 他 的 旨 意 求 甚 麼 、 他 就 聽 我 們 ． 這 是 我 們 向 他 所 存 坦 然 無 懼 的 心 。
   	[kjv] 	And this is the confidence that we have in him, that, if we ask any thing according to his will, he heareth us:
   	[bbe] 	And we are certain that if we make any request to him which is right in his eyes, he will give ear to us:
5:15	[hb5] 	既 然 知 道 他 聽 我 們 一 切 所 求 的 、 就 知 道 我 們 所 求 於 他 的 無 不 得 著 。
   	[kjv] 	And if we know that he hear us, whatsoever we ask, we know that we have the petitions that we desired of him.
   	[bbe] 	And if we are certain that he gives ear to all our requests, we are equally certain that we will get our requests.
5:16	[hb5] 	人 若 看 見 弟 兄 犯 了 不 至 於 死 的 罪 、 就 當 為 他 祈 求 、 　 神 必 將 生 命 賜 給 他 ． 有 至 於 死 的 罪 、 我 不 說 當 為 這 罪 祈 求 。
   	[kjv] 	If any man see his brother sin a sin which is not unto death, he shall ask, and he shall give him life for them that sin not unto death. There is a sin unto death: I do not say that he shall pray for it.
   	[bbe] 	If a man sees his brother doing a sin which is not bad enough for death, let him make a prayer to God, and God will give life to him whose sin was not bad enough for death. There is a sin whose punishment is death: I do not say that he may make such a request then.
5:17	[hb5] 	凡 不 義 的 事 都 是 罪 ． 也 有 不 至 於 死 的 罪 。
   	[kjv] 	All unrighteousness is sin: and there is a sin not unto death.
   	[bbe] 	All evil-doing is sin: but death is not the punishment for every sort of sin.
5:18	[hb5] 	我 們 知 道 凡 從 　 神 生 的 必 不 犯 罪 ． 從 　 神 生 的 必 保 守 自 己 、 〔 有 古 卷 作 那 從 　 神 生 的 必 保 護 他 〕 那 惡 者 也 就 無 法 害 他 。
   	[kjv] 	We know that whosoever is born of God sinneth not; but he that is begotten of God keepeth himself, and that wicked one toucheth him not.
   	[bbe] 	We are certain that one who is a child of God will do no sin, but the Son of God keeps him so that he is not touched by the Evil One.
5:19	[hb5] 	我 們 知 道 我 們 是 屬 　 神 的 、 全 世 界 都 臥 在 那 惡 者 手 下 。
   	[kjv] 	And we know that we are of God, and the whole world lieth in wickedness.
   	[bbe] 	We are certain that we are of God, but all the world is in the power of the Evil One.
5:20	[hb5] 	我 們 也 知 道 　 神 的 兒 子 已 經 來 到 、 且 將 智 慧 賜 給 我 們 、 使 我 們 認 識 那 位 真 實 的 、 我 們 也 在 那 位 真 實 的 裡 面 、 就 是 在 他 兒 子 耶 穌 基 督 裡 面 。 這 是 真 　 神 、 也 是 永 生 。
   	[kjv] 	And we know that the Son of God is come, and hath given us an understanding, that we may know him that is true, and we are in him that is true, even in his Son Jesus Christ. This is the true God, and eternal life.
   	[bbe] 	And we are certain that the Son of God has come, and has given us a clear vision, so that we may see him who is true, and we are in him who is true, in his Son Jesus Christ. He is the true God and eternal life.
5:21	[hb5] 	小 子 們 哪 、 你 們 要 自 守 、 遠 避 偶 像 。
   	[kjv] 	Little children, keep yourselves from idols. Amen.
   	[bbe] 	My little children, keep yourselves from false gods.

