



新約 -- 約翰貳書(2 John) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 1 章 )


1:1    作長老的寫信給蒙揀選的太太，（太太作教會下同），和他的兒女，就是我誠心所愛的。不但我愛，也是一切知道真理之人所愛的。
The elder unto the elect lady and her children, whom I love in the truth; and not I only, but also all they that have known the truth;

1:2    愛你們是為真理的緣故，這真理存在我們裡面，也必永遠與我們同在。
For the truth's sake, which dwelleth in us, and shall be with us for ever.

1:3    恩惠，憐憫，平安，從父神和他兒子耶穌基督，在真理和愛心上，必常與我們同在。
Grace be with you, mercy, and peace, from God the Father, and from the Lord Jesus Christ, the Son of the Father, in truth and love.

1:4    我見你的兒女，有照我們從父所受之命令遵行真理的，就甚歡喜。
I rejoiced greatly that I found of thy children walking in truth, as we have received a commandment from the Father.

1:5    太太阿，我現在勸你，我們大家要彼此相愛。這並不是我寫一條新命令給你，乃是我們從起初所受的命令。
And now I beseech thee, lady, not as though I wrote a new commandment unto thee, but that which we had from the beginning, that we love one another.

1:6    我們若照他的命令列，這就是愛。你們從起初所聽見當行的，就是這命令。
And this is love, that we walk after his commandments. This is the commandment, That, as ye have heard from the beginning, ye should walk in it.

1:7    因為世上有許多迷惑人的出來，他們不認耶穌基督是成了肉身來的。這就是那迷惑人的，敵基督的。
For many deceivers are entered into the world, who confess not that Jesus Christ is come in the flesh. This is a deceiver and an antichrist.

1:8    你們要小心，不要失去你們（有古卷作我們）所作的工，乃要得著滿足的賞賜。
Look to yourselves, that we lose not those things which we have wrought, but that we receive a full reward.

1:9    凡越過基督教訓，不常守著的，就沒有神。常守這教訓的，就有父又有子。
Whosoever transgresseth, and abideth not in the doctrine of Christ, hath not God. He that abideth in the doctrine of Christ, he hath both the Father and the Son.

1:10    若有人到你們那裡，不是傳這教訓，不要接他到家裡，也不要問他的安。
If there come any unto you, and bring not this doctrine, receive him not into your house, neither bid him God speed:

1:11    因為問他安的，就在他的惡行上有分。
For he that biddeth him God speed is partaker of his evil deeds.

1:12    我還有許多事要寫給你們，卻不願意用紙墨寫出來。但盼望到你們那裡，與你們當面談論，使你們的喜樂滿足。
Having many things to write unto you, I would not write with paper and ink: but I trust to come unto you, and speak face to face, that our joy may be full.

1:13    你那蒙揀選之姐妹的兒女都問你安。
The children of thy elect sister greet thee. Amen.



