

新約 -- 約翰叄書(3 John) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 1 章 )    　


1:1    作長老的寫信給親愛的該猶，就是我誠心所愛的。
The elder unto the wellbeloved Gaius, whom I love in the truth.

1:2    親愛的兄弟阿，我願你凡事興盛，身體健壯，如你的靈魂興盛一樣。
Beloved, I wish above all things that thou mayest prosper and be in health, even as thy soul prospereth.

1:3    有弟兄來證明你心裡存的真理，正如你按真理而行，我就甚喜樂。
For I rejoiced greatly, when the brethren came and testified of the truth that is in thee, even as thou walkest in the truth.

1:4    我聽見我的兒女們按真理而行，我的喜樂就沒有比這個大的。
I have no greater joy than to hear that my children walk in truth.

1:5    親愛的弟兄阿，凡你向作客旅之弟兄所行的，都是忠心的；
Beloved, thou doest faithfully whatsoever thou doest to the brethren, and to strangers;

1:6    他們在教會面前證明了你的愛。你若配得過神，幫住他們往前行，這就好了。
Which have borne witness of thy charity before the church: whom if thou bring forward on their journey after a godly sort, thou shalt do well:

1:7    因他們是為主的名（原文作那名）出外，對於外邦人一無所取。
Because that for his name's sake they went forth, taking nothing of the Gentiles.

1:8    所以我們應該接待這樣的人，叫我們與他們一同為真理作工。
We therefore ought to receive such, that we might be fellowhelpers to the truth.

1:9    我曾略略的寫信給教會。但那在教會中好為首的丟特腓不接待我們。
I wrote unto the church: but Diotrephes, who loveth to have the preeminence among them, receiveth us not.

1:10    所以我若去，必要題說他所行的事。就是他用惡言妄論我們。還不以此為足，他自己不接待弟兄，有人願意接待，他也禁止，並且將接待弟兄的人趕出教會。
Wherefore, if I come, I will remember his deeds which he doeth, prating against us with malicious words: and not content therewith, neither doth he himself receive the brethren, and forbiddeth them that would, and casteth them out of the church.

1:11    親愛的兄弟阿，不要效法惡，只要效法善。行善的屬乎神。行惡的未曾見過神。
Beloved, follow not that which is evil, but that which is good. He that doeth good is of God: but he that doeth evil hath not seen God.

1:12    低米丟行善有眾人給他作見證。又有真理給他作見證。就是我們也給他作見證。你也知道我們的見證是真的。
Demetrius hath good report of all men, and of the truth itself: yea, and we also bear record; and ye know that our record is true.

1:13    我原有許多事要寫給你，卻不願意用筆墨寫給你。
I had many things to write, but I will not with ink and pen write unto thee:

1:14    但盼望快快的見你，我們就當面談論。
But I trust I shall shortly see thee, and we shall speak face to face.

1:15    願你平安。眾位朋友都問你安。請你替我按著姓名問眾位朋友安。
Peace be to thee. Our friends salute thee. Greet the friends by name.

