


新約 -- 猶大書(Jude) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 1 章 )    　


1:1    耶穌基督的僕人，雅各的弟兄猶大，寫信給那被召，在父神裡蒙愛，為耶穌基督保守的人。
Jude, the servant of Jesus Christ, and brother of James, to them that are sanctified by God the Father, and preserved in Jesus Christ, and called:

1:2    願憐恤，平安，慈愛，多多的加給你們。
Mercy unto you, and peace, and love, be multiplied.

1:3    親愛的弟兄阿，我想盡心寫信給你們，論我們同得救恩的時候，就不得不寫信勸你們，要為從前一次交付聖徒的真道，竭力的爭辯。
Beloved, when I gave all diligence to write unto you of the common salvation, it was needful for me to write unto you, and exhort you that ye should earnestly contend for the faith which was once delivered unto the saints.

1:4    因為有些人偷著進來，就是自古被定受刑罰的，是不虔誠的，將我們神的恩變作放縱情慾的機會，並且不認獨一的主宰我們（我們或作和我們）主耶穌基督。
For there are certain men crept in unawares, who were before of old ordained to this condemnation, ungodly men, turning the grace of our God into lasciviousness, and denying the only Lord God, and our Lord Jesus Christ.

1:5    從前主救了他的百姓出埃及地，後來就把那些不信的滅絕了。這一切的事，你們雖然都知道，我卻仍要題醒你們。
I will therefore put you in remembrance, though ye once knew this, how that the Lord, having saved the people out of the land of Egypt, afterward destroyed them that believed not.

1:6    又有不守本位，離開自己住處的天使，主用鎖鏈把他們永遠拘留在黑暗裡，等候大日的審判。
And the angels which kept not their first estate, but left their own habitation, he hath reserved in everlasting chains under darkness unto the judgment of the great day.

1:7    又如所多瑪，蛾摩拉，和周圍城邑的人，也照他們一味的行淫，隨從逆性的情慾，就受永火的刑罰，作為監戒。
Even as Sodom and Gomorrha, and the cities about them in like manner, giving themselves over to fornication, and going after strange flesh, are set forth for an example, suffering the vengeance of eternal fire.

1:8    這些作夢的人，也像他們汙穢身體，輕慢主治的，毀謗在尊位的。
Likewise also these filthy dreamers defile the flesh, despise dominion, and speak evil of dignities.

1:9    天使長米迦勒，為摩西的屍首與魔鬼爭辯的時候，尚且不敢用毀謗的話罪責他，只說，主責備你吧。
Yet Michael the archangel, when contending with the devil he disputed about the body of Moses, durst not bring against him a railing accusation, but said, The Lord rebuke thee.

1:10    但這些人毀謗他們所不知道的。他們本性所知道的事與那沒有靈性的畜類一樣，在這事上竟敗壞了自己。
But these speak evil of those things which they know not: but what they know naturally, as brute beasts, in those things they corrupt themselves.

1:11    他們有禍了。因為走了該隱的道路，又為利往巴蘭的錯謬裡直奔，並在可拉的背判中滅亡了。
Woe unto them! for they have gone in the way of Cain, and ran greedily after the error of Balaam for reward, and perished in the gainsaying of Core.

1:12    這樣的人，在你們的愛席上，與你們同吃的時候，正是礁石。（或作玷汙）他們作牧人，只知餵養自己，無所懼怕。是沒有雨的雲彩，被風飄蕩，是秋天沒有果子的樹，死而又死，連根被拔出來。
These are spots in your feasts of charity, when they feast with you, feeding themselves without fear: clouds they are without water, carried about of winds; trees whose fruit withereth, without fruit, twice dead, plucked up by the roots;

1:13    是海里的狂浪，湧出自己可恥的沫子來。是流蕩的星，有墨黑的幽暗為他們永遠存留。
Raging waves of the sea, foaming out their own shame; wandering stars, to whom is reserved the blackness of darkness for ever.

1:14    亞當的七世孫以諾，曾預言這些人說，看哪，主帶著他的千萬聖者降臨，
And Enoch also, the seventh from Adam, prophesied of these, saying, Behold, the Lord cometh with ten thousands of his saints,

1:15    要在眾人身上行審判，證實那一切不敬虔的人，所妄行一切不敬虔的事，又證實不敬虔之罪人所說頂撞他的剛愎話。
To execute judgment upon all, and to convince all that are ungodly among them of all their ungodly deeds which they have ungodly committed, and of all their hard speeches which ungodly sinners have spoken against him.

1:16    這些人是私下議論，常發怨言的，隨從自己的情慾而行，口中說誇大的話，為得便宜諂媚人。
These are murmurers, complainers, walking after their own lusts; and their mouth speaketh great swelling words, having men's persons in admiration because of advantage.

1:17    親愛的弟兄阿，你們要記念我們主耶穌基督之使徒從前所說的話。
But, beloved, remember ye the words which were spoken before of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ;

1:18    他們曾對你們說過，末世必有好譏誚的人，隨從自己不敬虔的私慾而行。
How that they told you there should be mockers in the last time, who should walk after their own ungodly lusts.

1:19    這就是那些引人結黨，屬乎血氣，沒有聖靈的人。
These be they who separate themselves, sensual, having not the Spirit.

1:20    親愛的弟兄阿，你們卻要在至聖的真道上造就自己，在聖靈裡禱告，
But ye, beloved, building up yourselves on your most holy faith, praying in the Holy Ghost,

1:21    保守自己常在神的愛中，仰望我們主耶穌基督的憐憫，直到永生。
Keep yourselves in the love of God, looking for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ unto eternal life.

1:22    有些人存疑心，你們要憐憫他們。
And of some have compassion, making a difference:

1:23    有些人你們要從火中搶出來搭救他們。有些人你們要存懼怕的心憐憫他們。連那被情慾沾染的衣服也當厭惡。
And others save with fear, pulling them out of the fire; hating even the garment spotted by the flesh.

1:24    那能保守你們不失腳，叫你們無瑕無疵，歡歡喜喜站在他榮耀之前的，我們的救主獨一的神。
Now unto him that is able to keep you from falling, and to present you faultless before the presence of his glory with exceeding joy,

1:25    願榮耀，威嚴，能力，權柄，因我們的主耶穌基督，歸與他，從萬古以前，並現在，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
To the only wise God our Saviour, be glory and majesty, dominion and power, both now and ever. Amen.



