

新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


1:1    耶穌基督的啟示，就是神賜給他，叫他將必要成的事指示他的僕人。他就差遣使者，曉諭他的僕人約翰。
The Revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave unto him, to shew unto his servants things which must shortly come to pass; and he sent and signified it by his angel unto his servant John:

1:2    約翰便將神的道，和耶穌基督的見證，凡自己所看見的，都證明出來。
Who bare record of the word of God, and of the testimony of Jesus Christ, and of all things that he saw.

1:3    念這書上預言的，和那些聽見又遵守其中所記載的，都是有福的。因為日期近了。
Blessed is he that readeth, and they that hear the words of this prophecy, and keep those things which are written therein: for the time is at hand.

1:4    約翰寫信給亞細亞的七個教會。但願從那昔在今在以後永在的神和他寶座前的七靈。
John to the seven churches which are in Asia: Grace be unto you, and peace, from him which is, and which was, and which is to come; and from the seven Spirits which are before his throne;

1:5    並那誠實作見證的，從死裡首先復活，為世上君王元首的耶穌基督。有恩惠平安歸與你們。他愛我們，用自己的血使我們脫離罪惡。（脫離有古卷作洗去）
And from Jesus Christ, who is the faithful witness, and the first begotten of the dead, and the prince of the kings of the earth. Unto him that loved us, and washed us from our sins in his own blood,

1:6    又使我們成為國民，作他父神的祭司。但願榮耀權能歸給他，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
And hath made us kings and priests unto God and his Father; to him be glory and dominion for ever and ever. Amen.

1:7    看哪，他駕雲降臨。眾目要看見他，連刺他的人也要看見他。地上的萬族都要因他哀哭。這話是真實的。阿們。
Behold, he cometh with clouds; and every eye shall see him, and they also which pierced him: and all kindreds of the earth shall wail because of him. Even so, Amen.

1:8    主神說，我是阿拉法，我是俄梅戛（阿拉法俄梅戛乃希臘字母首末二字），是昔在今在以後永在的全能者。
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the ending, saith the Lord, which is, and which was, and which is to come, the Almighty.

1:9    我約翰就是你們的弟兄，和你們在耶穌的患難，國度，忍耐裡一同有分。為神的道，併為給耶穌作的見證，曾在那名叫拔摩的海島上。
I John, who also am your brother, and companion in tribulation, and in the kingdom and patience of Jesus Christ, was in the isle that is called Patmos, for the word of God, and for the testimony of Jesus Christ.

1:10    當主日我被聖靈感動，聽見在我後面有大聲如吹號說，
I was in the Spirit on the Lord's day, and heard behind me a great voice, as of a trumpet,

1:11    你所看見的，當寫在書上，達與以弗所，士每拿，別迦摩，推雅推喇，撒狄，非拉鐵非，老底嘉，那七個教會。
Saying, I am Alpha and Omega, the first and the last: and, What thou seest, write in a book, and send it unto the seven churches which are in Asia; unto Ephesus, and unto Smyrna, and unto Pergamos, and unto Thyatira, and unto Sardis, and unto Philadelphia, and unto Laodicea.

1:12    我轉過身來，要看是誰發聲與我說話。既轉過來，就看見七個金燈臺。
And I turned to see the voice that spake with me. And being turned, I saw seven golden candlesticks;

1:13    燈臺中間，有一位好像人子，身穿長衣，直垂到腳，胸間束著金帶。
And in the midst of the seven candlesticks one like unto the Son of man, clothed with a garment down to the foot, and girt about the paps with a golden girdle.

1:14    他的頭與發皆白，如白羊毛，如雪。眼目如同火焰。
His head and his hairs were white like wool, as white as snow; and his eyes were as a flame of fire;

1:15    腳好像在爐中鍛鍊光明的銅。聲音如同眾水的聲音。
And his feet like unto fine brass, as if they burned in a furnace; and his voice as the sound of many waters.

1:16    他右手拿著七星。從他口中出來一把兩刃的利劍。面貌如同烈日放光。
And he had in his right hand seven stars: and out of his mouth went a sharp twoedged sword: and his countenance was as the sun shineth in his strength.

1:17    我一看見，就仆倒在他腳前，像死了一樣。他用右手按著我說，不要懼怕。我是首先的，我是末後的，
And when I saw him, I fell at his feet as dead. And he laid his right hand upon me, saying unto me, Fear not; I am the first and the last:



1:18    又是那存活的。我曾死過，現在又活了，直活到永永遠遠。並且拿著死亡和陰間的鑰匙。
I am he that liveth, and was dead; and, behold, I am alive for evermore, Amen; and have the keys of hell and of death.

1:19    所以你要把所看見的，和現在的事，並將來必成的事，都寫出來。
Write the things which thou hast seen, and the things which are, and the things which shall be hereafter;

1:20    論到你所看見在我右手中的七星，和七個金燈臺的奧祕。那七星就是七個教會的使者。七個燈臺就是七個教會。
The mystery of the seven stars which thou sawest in my right hand, and the seven golden candlesticks. The seven stars are the angels of the seven churches: and the seven candlesticks which thou sawest are the seven churches.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


2:1    你要寫信給以弗所教會的使者，說，那右手拿著七星，在七個金燈臺中間行走的，說，
Unto the angel of the church of Ephesus write; These things saith he that holdeth the seven stars in his right hand, who walketh in the midst of the seven golden candlesticks;

2:2    我知道你的行為，勞碌，忍耐，也知道你不能容忍惡人，你也曾試驗那自稱為使徒卻不是使徒的，看出他們是假的來。
I know thy works, and thy labour, and thy patience, and how thou canst not bear them which are evil: and thou hast tried them which say they are apostles, and are not, and hast found them liars:

2:3    你也能忍耐，曾為我的名勞苦，並不乏倦。
And hast borne, and hast patience, and for my name's sake hast laboured, and hast not fainted.

2:4    然而有一件事我要責備你，就是你把起初的愛心離棄了。
Nevertheless I have somewhat against thee, because thou hast left thy first love.

2:5    所以應當回想你是從那裡墜落的，並要悔改，行起初所行的事。你若不悔改，我就臨到你那裡，把你的燈臺從原處挪去。
Remember therefore from whence thou art fallen, and repent, and do the first works; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will remove thy candlestick out of his place, except thou repent.

2:6    然而你還有一個可取的事，就是你恨惡尼哥拉一黨人的行為，這也是我所恨惡的。
But this thou hast, that thou hatest the deeds of the Nicolaitanes, which I also hate.

2:7    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的，就應當聽。得勝的，我必將神樂園中生命樹的果子賜給他吃。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the tree of life, which is in the midst of the paradise of God.

2:8    你要寫信給士每拿教會的使者說，那首先的，末後的，死過又活的說，
And unto the angel of the church in Smyrna write; These things saith the first and the last, which was dead, and is alive;

2:9    我知道你的患難，你的貧窮，（你卻是富足的）也知道那自稱是猶太人所說的悔謗話，其實他們不是猶太人，乃是撒但一會的人。
I know thy works, and tribulation, and poverty, (but thou art rich) and I know the blasphemy of them which say they are Jews, and are not, but are the synagogue of Satan.

2:10    你將要受的苦你不用怕。魔鬼要你們中間幾個人下在監裡，叫你們被試煉。你們必受患難十日。你務要至死忠心，我就賜給你那生命的冠冕。
Fear none of those things which thou shalt suffer: behold, the devil shall cast some of you into prison, that ye may be tried; and ye shall have tribulation ten days: be thou faithful unto death, and I will give thee a crown of life.

2:11    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的，就應當聽。得勝的，必不受第二次死的害。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; He that overcometh shall not be hurt of the second death.

2:12    你要寫信給別迦摩教會的使者，說，那有兩刃利劍的說，
And to the angel of the church in Pergamos write; These things saith he which hath the sharp sword with two edges;

2:13    我知道你的居所，就是有撒但座位之處。當我忠心的見證人安提帕在你們中間，撒但所住的地方被殺之時，你還堅守我的名，沒有棄絕我的道。
I know thy works, and where thou dwellest, even where Satan's seat is: and thou holdest fast my name, and hast not denied my faith, even in those days wherein Antipas was my faithful martyr, who was slain among you, where Satan dwelleth.

2:14    然而有幾件事我要責備你，因為在你那裡，有人服從巴蘭的教訓。這巴蘭曾教導巴勒將絆腳石放在以色列人面前，叫他們吃祭偶像之物，行姦淫的事。
But I have a few things against thee, because thou hast there them that hold the doctrine of Balaam, who taught Balac to cast a stumblingblock before the children of Israel, to eat things sacrificed unto idols, and to commit fornication.

2:15    你那裡也有人照樣服從了尼哥拉一黨人的教訓。
So hast thou also them that hold the doctrine of the Nicolaitanes, which thing I hate.

2:16    所以你當悔改。若不悔改，我就快臨到你那裡，用我口中的劍，攻擊他們。
Repent; or else I will come unto thee quickly, and will fight against them with the sword of my mouth.

2:17    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的就應當聽。得勝的，我必將那隱藏的嗎哪賜給他。並賜他一塊白石，石上寫著新名。除了那領受的以外。沒有人能認識。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches; To him that overcometh will I give to eat of the hidden manna, and will give him a white stone, and in the stone a new name written, which no man knoweth saving he that receiveth it.

2:18    你要寫信給推雅推喇教會的使者，說，那眼目如火焰，腳像光明銅的神之子，說，
And unto the angel of the church in Thyatira write; These things saith the Son of God, who hath his eyes like unto a flame of fire, and his feet are like fine brass;

2:19    我知道你的行為，愛心，信心，勤勞，忍耐。又知道你末後所行的善事，比起初所行的更多。
I know thy works, and charity, and service, and faith, and thy patience, and thy works; and the last to be more than the first.

2:20    然而有一件事我要責備你，就是你容讓那自稱是先知的婦人耶洗別教導我的僕人，引誘他們行姦淫，吃祭偶像之物。
Notwithstanding I have a few things against thee, because thou sufferest that woman Jezebel, which calleth herself a prophetess, to teach and to seduce my servants to commit fornication, and to eat things sacrificed unto idols.

2:21    我曾給他悔改的機會，他卻不肯悔改他的淫行。
And I gave her space to repent of her fornication; and she repented not.

2:22    看哪，我要叫他病臥在床，那些與他行淫的人，若不悔改所行的，我也要叫他們同受大患難。
Behold, I will cast her into a bed, and them that commit adultery with her into great tribulation, except they repent of their deeds.

2:23    我又要殺死他的黨類（黨類原文作兒女），叫眾教會知道，我是那察看人肺腑心腸的。並要照你們的行為報應你們各人。
And I will kill her children with death; and all the churches shall know that I am he which searcheth the reins and hearts: and I will give unto every one of you according to your works.

2:24    至於你們推雅推喇其餘的人，就是一切不從那教訓，不曉得他們素常所說撒但深奧之理的人。我告訴你們，我不將別的擔子放在你們身上。
But unto you I say, and unto the rest in Thyatira, as many as have not this doctrine, and which have not known the depths of Satan, as they speak; I will put upon you none other burden.

2:25    但你們已經有的，總要持守，直等到我來。
But that which ye have already hold fast till I come.

2:26    那得勝又遵守我命令到底的，我要賜給他權柄制伏列國。
And he that overcometh, and keepeth my works unto the end, to him will I give power over the nations:

2:27    他必用鐵杖轄管他們（轄管原文作牧），將他們如同窯戶的瓦器打得粉碎。像我從我父領受的權柄一樣。
And he shall rule them with a rod of iron; as the vessels of a potter shall they be broken to shivers: even as I received of my Father.

2:28    我又要把晨星賜給他。
And I will give him the morning star.

2:29    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的就應當聽。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


3:1    你要寫信給撒狄教會的使者，說，那有神的七靈和七星的，說，我知道你的行為，按名你是活的，其實是死的。
And unto the angel of the church in Sardis write; These things saith he that hath the seven Spirits of God, and the seven stars; I know thy works, that thou hast a name that thou livest, and art dead.

3:2    你要儆醒，堅固那剩下將要衰微的（衰微原文作死）。因我見你的行為，在我神面前，沒有一樣是完全的。
Be watchful, and strengthen the things which remain, that are ready to die: for I have not found thy works perfect before God.

3:3    所以要回想你是怎樣領受，怎樣聽見的。又要遵守，並要悔改。若不儆醒，我必臨到你那裡如同賊一樣。我幾時臨到，你也決不能知道。
Remember therefore how thou hast received and heard, and hold fast, and repent. If therefore thou shalt not watch, I will come on thee as a thief, and thou shalt not know what hour I will come upon thee.

3:4    然而在撒狄你還有幾名是未曾汙穢自己衣服的。他們要穿白衣與我同行。因為他們是配得過的。
Thou hast a few names even in Sardis which have not defiled their garments; and they shall walk with me in white: for they are worthy.

3:5    凡得勝的，必這樣穿白衣。我也必不從生命冊上塗抹他的名。且要在我父面前，和我父眾使者面前認他的名。
He that overcometh, the same shall be clothed in white raiment; and I will not blot out his name out of the book of life, but I will confess his name before my Father, and before his angels.

3:6    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的，就應當聽。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.

3:7    你要寫信給非拉鐵非教會的使者，說，那聖潔，真實，拿著大衛的鑰匙，開了就沒有人能關，關了就沒有人能開的，說，
And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia write; These things saith he that is holy, he that is true, he that hath the key of David, he that openeth, and no man shutteth; and shutteth, and no man openeth;

3:8    我知道你的行為，你略有一點力量，也曾遵守我的道，沒有棄絕我的名。看哪，我在你面前給你一個敞開的門，是無人能關的。
I know thy works: behold, I have set before thee an open door, and no man can shut it: for thou hast a little strength, and hast kept my word, and hast not denied my name.

3:9    那撒但一會的，自稱是猶太人，其實不是猶太人，乃是說謊話的，我要使他們來在你腳前下拜，也使他們知道我是已經愛你了。
Behold, I will make them of the synagogue of Satan, which say they are Jews, and are not, but do lie; behold, I will make them to come and worship before thy feet, and to know that I have loved thee.

3:10    你既遵守我忍耐的道，我必在普天下人受試煉的時候，保守你免去你的試煉。
Because thou hast kept the word of my patience, I also will keep thee from the hour of temptation, which shall come upon all the world, to try them that dwell upon the earth.

3:11    我必快來，你要持守你所有的，免得人奪去你的冠冕。
Behold, I come quickly: hold that fast which thou hast, that no man take thy crown.

3:12    得勝的，我要叫他在我神殿中作柱子，他也必不再從那裡出去。我又要將我神的名，和我神城的名，（這城就是從天上從我神那裡降下來的新耶路撒冷）並我的新名，都寫在他上面。
Him that overcometh will I make a pillar in the temple of my God, and he shall go no more out: and I will write upon him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, which is new Jerusalem, which cometh down out of heaven from my God: and I will write upon him my new name.

3:13    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的，就應當聽。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.

3:14    你要寫信給老底嘉教會的使者，說，那為阿們的，為誠信真實見證的，在神創造萬物之上為元首的，說，
And unto the angel of the church of the Laodiceans write; These things saith the Amen, the faithful and true witness, the beginning of the creation of God;

3:15    我知道的行為，你也不冷也不熱。我巴不得你或冷或熱。
I know thy works, that thou art neither cold nor hot: I would thou wert cold or hot.

3:16    你既如溫水，也不冷也不熱，所以我必從我口中把你吐出去。
So then because thou art lukewarm, and neither cold nor hot, I will spue thee out of my mouth.

3:17    你說，我是富足，已經發了財，一樣都不缺。卻不知道你是那困苦，可憐，貧窮，瞎眼，赤身的。
Because thou sayest, I am rich, and increased with goods, and have need of nothing; and knowest not that thou art wretched, and miserable, and poor, and blind, and naked:

3:18    我勸你向我買火煉的金子，叫你富足。又買白衣穿上，叫你赤身的羞恥不露出來。又買眼藥擦你的眼睛，使你能看見。
I counsel thee to buy of me gold tried in the fire, that thou mayest be rich; and white raiment, that thou mayest be clothed, and that the shame of thy nakedness do not appear; and anoint thine eyes with eyesalve, that thou mayest see.

3:19    凡我所疼愛的，我就責備管教他。所以你要發熱心，也要悔改。
As many as I love, I rebuke and chasten: be zealous therefore, and repent.

3:20    看哪，我站在門外叩門。若有聽見我聲音就開門的，我要進到他那裡去，我與他，他與我一同坐席。
Behold, I stand at the door, and knock: if any man hear my voice, and open the door, I will come in to him, and will sup with him, and he with me.

3:21    得勝的，我要賜他在我寶座上與我同坐，就如我得了勝，在我父的寶座上與他同坐一般。
To him that overcometh will I grant to sit with me in my throne, even as I also overcame, and am set down with my Father in his throne.

3:22    聖靈向眾教會所說的話，凡有耳的，就應當聽。
He that hath an ear, let him hear what the Spirit saith unto the churches.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


4:1    此後，我觀看，見天上有門開了，我初次聽見好像吹號的聲音，對我說，你上到這裡來，我要將以後必成的事指示你。
After this I looked, and, behold, a door was opened in heaven: and the first voice which I heard was as it were of a trumpet talking with me; which said, Come up hither, and I will shew thee things which must be hereafter.

4:2    我立刻被聖靈感動，見有一個寶座安置在天上，又有一位坐在寶座上。
And immediately I was in the spirit: and, behold, a throne was set in heaven, and one sat on the throne.

4:3    看那坐著的，好像碧玉和紅寶石。又有虹圍著寶座，好像綠寶石。
And he that sat was to look upon like a jasper and a sardine stone: and there was a rainbow round about the throne, in sight like unto an emerald.

4:4    寶座的周圍，又有二十四個座位，其上坐著二十四位長老，身穿白衣，頭上戴著金冠冕。
And round about the throne were four and twenty seats: and upon the seats I saw four and twenty elders sitting, clothed in white raiment; and they had on their heads crowns of gold.

4:5    有閃電，聲音，雷轟，從寶座中發出。又有七盞火燈在寶座前點著，這七燈就是神的七靈。
And out of the throne proceeded lightnings and thunderings and voices: and there were seven lamps of fire burning before the throne, which are the seven Spirits of God.

4:6    寶座前好像一個玻璃海如同水晶。寶座中，和寶座周圍有四個活物，前後遍體都滿了眼睛。
And before the throne there was a sea of glass like unto crystal: and in the midst of the throne, and round about the throne, were four beasts full of eyes before and behind.

4:7    第一個活物像獅子，第二個像牛犢，第三個臉面像人，第四個像飛鷹。
And the first beast was like a lion, and the second beast like a calf, and the third beast had a face as a man, and the fourth beast was like a flying eagle.



4:8    四活物各有六個翅膀，遍體內外都滿了眼睛。他們晝夜不住的說，聖哉，聖哉，聖哉，主神。是昔在今在以後永在的全能者。
And the four beasts had each of them six wings about him; and they were full of eyes within: and they rest not day and night, saying, Holy, holy, holy, LORD God Almighty, which was, and is, and is to come.

4:9    每逢四活物將榮耀，尊貴，感謝，歸給那坐在寶座上，活到永永遠遠者的時候，
And when those beasts give glory and honour and thanks to him that sat on the throne, who liveth for ever and ever,

4:10    那二十四位長老，就俯伏在坐寶座的面前，敬拜那活到永永遠遠的，又把他們的冠冕放在寶座前，說，
The four and twenty elders fall down before him that sat on the throne, and worship him that liveth for ever and ever, and cast their crowns before the throne, saying,

4:11    我們的主，我們的神，你是配得榮耀尊貴權柄的。因為你創造了萬物，並且萬物是因你的旨意被創造而有的。
Thou art worthy, O Lord, to receive glory and honour and power: for thou hast created all things, and for thy pleasure they are and were created.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


5:1    我看見坐寶座的右手中有書卷，裡外都寫著字，用七印封嚴了。
And I saw in the right hand of him that sat on the throne a book written within and on the backside, sealed with seven seals.

5:2    我又看見一位大力的天使，大聲宣傳說，有誰配展開那書卷，揭開那七印呢。
And I saw a strong angel proclaiming with a loud voice, Who is worthy to open the book, and to loose the seals thereof?

5:3    在天上，地上，地底下，沒有能展開能觀看那書卷的。
And no man in heaven, nor in earth, neither under the earth, was able to open the book, neither to look thereon.

5:4    因為沒有配展開，配觀看那書卷的，我就大哭。
And I wept much, because no man was found worthy to open and to read the book, neither to look thereon.

5:5    長老中有一位對我說，不要哭。看哪，猶大支派中的獅子，大衛的根，他已得勝，能以展開那書卷，揭開那七印。
And one of the elders saith unto me, Weep not: behold, the Lion of the tribe of Juda, the Root of David, hath prevailed to open the book, and to loose the seven seals thereof.

5:6    我又看見寶座與四活物並長老之中，有羔羊站立，像是被殺過的，有七角七眼，就是神的七靈，奉差遣往普天下去的。
And I beheld, and, lo, in the midst of the throne and of the four beasts, and in the midst of the elders, stood a Lamb as it had been slain, having seven horns and seven eyes, which are the seven Spirits of God sent forth into all the earth.

5:7    這羔羊前來，從坐寶座的右手裡拿了書卷。
And he came and took the book out of the right hand of him that sat upon the throne.

5:8    他既拿了書卷，四活物和二十四位長老，就俯伏在羔羊面前，各拿著琴，和盛滿了香的金爐。這香就是眾聖徒的祈禱。
And when he had taken the book, the four beasts and four and twenty elders fell down before the Lamb, having every one of them harps, and golden vials full of odours, which are the prayers of saints.

5:9    他們唱新歌，說，你配拿書卷，配揭開七印。因為你曾被殺，用自己的血從各族各方，各民各國中買了人來，叫他們歸於神，
And they sung a new song, saying, Thou art worthy to take the book, and to open the seals thereof: for thou wast slain, and hast redeemed us to God by thy blood out of every kindred, and tongue, and people, and nation;

5:10    又叫他們成為國民，作祭司，歸於神。在地上執掌王權。
And hast made us unto our God kings and priests: and we shall reign on the earth.

5:11    我又看見，且聽見，寶座與活物並長老的周圍，有許多天使的聲音。他們的數目有千千萬萬。
And I beheld, and I heard the voice of many angels round about the throne and the beasts and the elders: and the number of them was ten thousand times ten thousand, and thousands of thousands;

5:12    大聲說，曾被殺的羔羊，是配得權柄，豐富，智慧，能力，尊貴，榮耀，頌讚的。
Saying with a loud voice, Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power, and riches, and wisdom, and strength, and honour, and glory, and blessing.

5:13    我又聽見，在天上，地上，地底下，滄海里，和天地間一切所有被造之物，都說，但願頌讚，尊貴，榮耀，權勢，都歸給坐寶座的和羔羊，直到永永遠遠。
And every creature which is in heaven, and on the earth, and under the earth, and such as are in the sea, and all that are in them, heard I saying, Blessing, and honour, and glory, and power, be unto him that sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb for ever and ever.

5:14    四活物就說，阿們。眾長老也俯伏敬拜。
And the four beasts said, Amen. And the four and twenty elders fell down and worshipped him that liveth for ever and ever.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


6:1    我看見羔羊揭開七印中第一印的時候，就聽見四活物中的一個活物，聲音如雷，說，你來。
And I saw when the Lamb opened one of the seals, and I heard, as it were the noise of thunder, one of the four beasts saying, Come and see.

6:2    我就觀看，見有一匹白馬，騎在馬上的拿著弓。並有冠冕賜給他。他便出來，勝了又勝。
And I saw, and behold a white horse: and he that sat on him had a bow; and a crown was given unto him: and he went forth conquering, and to conquer.

6:3    揭開第二印的時候，我聽見第二個活物說，你來。
And when he had opened the second seal, I heard the second beast say, Come and see.

6:4    就另有一匹馬出來，是紅的。有權柄給了那騎馬的，可以從地上奪去太平，使人彼此相殺。又有一把大刀賜給他。
And there went out another horse that was red: and power was given to him that sat thereon to take peace from the earth, and that they should kill one another: and there was given unto him a great sword.

6:5    揭開第三印的時候，我聽見第三個活物說，你來。我就觀看，見有一匹黑馬。騎在馬上的手裡拿著天平。
And when he had opened the third seal, I heard the third beast say, Come and see. And I beheld, and lo a black horse; and he that sat on him had a pair of balances in his hand.

6:6    我聽見在四活物中，似乎有聲音說，一錢銀子買一升麥子，一錢銀子買三升大麥。油和酒不可糟蹋。
And I heard a voice in the midst of the four beasts say, A measure of wheat for a penny, and three measures of barley for a penny; and see thou hurt not the oil and the wine.

6:7    揭開第四印的時候，我聽見第四活物說，你來。
And when he had opened the fourth seal, I heard the voice of the fourth beast say, Come and see.



6:8    我就觀看，見有一匹灰馬。騎在馬上的，名字叫死。陰府也隨著他。有權柄賜給他們，可以用刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫（瘟疫或作死亡），野獸，殺害地上四分之一的人。
And I looked, and behold a pale horse: and his name that sat on him was Death, and Hell followed with him. And power was given unto them over the fourth part of the earth, to kill with sword, and with hunger, and with death, and with the beasts of the earth.

6:9    揭開第五印的時候，我看見在祭壇底下，有為神的道，併為作見證，被殺之人的靈魂。
And when he had opened the fifth seal, I saw under the altar the souls of them that were slain for the word of God, and for the testimony which they held:

6:10    大聲喊著說，聖潔真實的主阿，你不審判住在地上的人給我們伸流血的冤，要到幾時呢。
And they cried with a loud voice, saying, How long, O Lord, holy and true, dost thou not judge and avenge our blood on them that dwell on the earth?

6:11    於是有白衣賜給他們各人。又有話對他們說，還要安息片時，等著一同作僕人的，和他們的弟兄，也像他們被殺，滿足了數目。
And white robes were given unto every one of them; and it was said unto them, that they should rest yet for a little season, until their fellowservants also and their brethren, that should be killed as they were, should be fulfilled.

6:12    揭開第六印的時後，我又看見地大震動。日頭變黑像毛布，滿月變紅像血。
And I beheld when he had opened the sixth seal, and, lo, there was a great earthquake; and the sun became black as sackcloth of hair, and the moon became as blood;

6:13    天上的星辰墜落於地，如同無花果樹被大風搖動，落下未熟的果子一樣。
And the stars of heaven fell unto the earth, even as a fig tree casteth her untimely figs, when she is shaken of a mighty wind.

6:14    天就挪移，好像書卷被捲起來。山嶺海島都被挪移離開本位。
And the heaven departed as a scroll when it is rolled together; and every mountain and island were moved out of their places.

6:15    地上的君王，臣宰，將軍，富戶，壯士，和一切為奴的，自主的，都藏在山洞，和岩石穴裡。
And the kings of the earth, and the great men, and the rich men, and the chief captains, and the mighty men, and every bondman, and every free man, hid themselves in the dens and in the rocks of the mountains;

6:16    向山和岩石說，倒在我們身上吧，把我們藏起來，躲避坐寶座者的面目，和羔羊的忿怒。
And said to the mountains and rocks, Fall on us, and hide us from the face of him that sitteth on the throne, and from the wrath of the Lamb:

6:17    因為他們忿怒的大日到了，誰能站得住呢。
For the great day of his wrath is come; and who shall be able to stand?



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


7:1    此後我看見四位天使站在地的四角，執掌地上四方的風，叫風不吹在地上，海上，和樹上。
And after these things I saw four angels standing on the four corners of the earth, holding the four winds of the earth, that the wind should not blow on the earth, nor on the sea, nor on any tree.

7:2    我又看見另有一位天使，從日出之地上來，拿著永生神的印。他就向那得著權柄能傷害地和海的四位天使，大聲喊著說，
And I saw another angel ascending from the east, having the seal of the living God: and he cried with a loud voice to the four angels, to whom it was given to hurt the earth and the sea,

7:3    地與海並樹木，你們不可傷害，等我們印了我們神眾僕人的額。
Saying, Hurt not the earth, neither the sea, nor the trees, till we have sealed the servants of our God in their foreheads.

7:4    我聽見以色列人，各支派中受印的數目，有十四萬四千。
And I heard the number of them which were sealed: and there were sealed an hundred and forty and four thousand of all the tribes of the children of Israel.

7:5    猶大支派中受印的有一萬二千。流便支派中有一萬二千。迦得支派中有一萬二千。
Of the tribe of Juda were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Reuben were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Gad were sealed twelve thousand.

7:6    亞設支派中有一萬二千。拿弗他利支派中有一萬二千。瑪拿西支派中有一萬二千
Of the tribe of Aser were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Nephthalim were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Manasses were sealed twelve thousand.

7:7    西緬支派中有一萬二千。利未支派中有一萬二千。以薩迦支派中有一萬二千。
Of the tribe of Simeon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Levi were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Issachar were sealed twelve thousand.

7:8    西布倫支派中有一萬二千。約瑟支派中有一萬二千。便雅憫支派中有一萬二千。
Of the tribe of Zabulon were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Joseph were sealed twelve thousand. Of the tribe of Benjamin were sealed twelve thousand.

7:9    此後，我觀看，見有許多的人，沒有人能數過來，是從各國各族各民各方來的，站在寶座和羔羊面前，身穿白衣，手拿棕樹枝。
After this I beheld, and, lo, a great multitude, which no man could number, of all nations, and kindreds, and people, and tongues, stood before the throne, and before the Lamb, clothed with white robes, and palms in their hands;

7:10    大聲喊著說，願救恩歸與坐在寶座上我們的神，也歸與羔羊。
And cried with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God which sitteth upon the throne, and unto the Lamb.

7:11    眾天使都站在寶座和眾長老並四活物的周圍，在寶座前，面伏於地，敬拜神，
And all the angels stood round about the throne, and about the elders and the four beasts, and fell before the throne on their faces, and worshipped God,

7:12    說，阿們。頌讚，榮耀，智慧，感謝，尊貴，權柄，大力，都歸與我們的神，直到永永遠遠。阿們。
Saying, Amen: Blessing, and glory, and wisdom, and thanksgiving, and honour, and power, and might, be unto our God for ever and ever. Amen.

7:13    長老中有一位問我說，這些穿白衣的是誰，是從那裡來的。
And one of the elders answered, saying unto me, What are these which are arrayed in white robes? and whence came they?

7:14    我對他說，我主，你知道。他向我說，這些人是從大患難中出來的，曾用羔羊的血，把衣裳洗白淨了。
And I said unto him, Sir, thou knowest. And he said to me, These are they which came out of great tribulation, and have washed their robes, and made them white in the blood of the Lamb.

7:15    所以他們在神寶座前，晝夜在他殿中事奉他。坐寶座的要用帳幕覆庇他們。
Therefore are they before the throne of God, and serve him day and night in his temple: and he that sitteth on the throne shall dwell among them.

7:16    他們不再飢，不再渴。日頭和炎熱，也必不傷害他們。
They shall hunger no more, neither thirst any more; neither shall the sun light on them, nor any heat.

7:17    因為寶座中的羔羊必牧養他們，領他們到生命水的泉源。神也必擦去他們一切的眼淚。
For the Lamb which is in the midst of the throne shall feed them, and shall lead them unto living fountains of waters: and God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


8:1    羔羊揭開第七印的時候，天上寂靜約有二刻。
And when he had opened the seventh seal, there was silence in heaven about the space of half an hour.

8:2    我看見那站在神面前的七位天使，有七枝號賜給他們。
And I saw the seven angels which stood before God; and to them were given seven trumpets.

8:3    另有一位天使拿著金香爐，來站在祭壇旁邊。有許多香賜給他，要和眾聖徒的祈禱一同獻在寶座前的金壇上。
And another angel came and stood at the altar, having a golden censer; and there was given unto him much incense, that he should offer it with the prayers of all saints upon the golden altar which was before the throne.

8:4    那香的煙，和眾聖徒的祈禱，從天使的手中一同升到神面前。
And the smoke of the incense, which came with the prayers of the saints, ascended up before God out of the angel's hand.

8:5    天使拿著香爐，盛滿了壇上的火，倒在地上。隨有雷轟，大聲，閃電，地震。
And the angel took the censer, and filled it with fire of the altar, and cast it into the earth: and there were voices, and thunderings, and lightnings, and an earthquake.

8:6    拿著七枝號的七位天使，就豫備要吹。
And the seven angels which had the seven trumpets prepared themselves to sound.

8:7    第一位天使吹號，就有雹子與火攙著血丟在地上。地的三分之一和樹的三分之一被燒了，一切的青草也被燒了。
The first angel sounded, and there followed hail and fire mingled with blood, and they were cast upon the earth: and the third part of trees was burnt up, and all green grass was burnt up.

8:8    第二位天使吹號，就有彷佛火燒著的大山扔在海中。海的三分之一變成血。
And the second angel sounded, and as it were a great mountain burning with fire was cast into the sea: and the third part of the sea became blood;

8:9    海中的活物死了三分之一。船隻也壞了三分之一。
And the third part of the creatures which were in the sea, and had life, died; and the third part of the ships were destroyed.

8:10    第三位天使吹號，就有燒著的大星，好像火把從天上落下來，落在江河的三分之一，和眾水的泉源上。
And the third angel sounded, and there fell a great star from heaven, burning as it were a lamp, and it fell upon the third part of the rivers, and upon the fountains of waters;

8:11    這星名叫茵？？。眾水的三分之一便為茵？？。因水變苦，就死了許多人。
And the name of the star is called Wormwood: and the third part of the waters became wormwood; and many men died of the waters, because they were made bitter.

8:12    第四位天使吹號，日頭的三分之一，月亮的三分之一，星辰的三分之一，都被擊打。以致日月星的三分之一黑暗了，白晝的三分之一沒有光，黑夜也是這樣。
And the fourth angel sounded, and the third part of the sun was smitten, and the third part of the moon, and the third part of the stars; so as the third part of them was darkened, and the day shone not for a third part of it, and the night likewise.

8:13    我又看見一個鷹飛在空中，並聽見他大聲說，三位天使要吹那其餘的號，你們住在地上的民，禍哉，禍哉，禍哉。
And I beheld, and heard an angel flying through the midst of heaven, saying with a loud voice, Woe, woe, woe, to the inhabiters of the earth by reason of the other voices of the trumpet of the three angels, which are yet to sound!



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


9:1    第五位天使吹號，我就看見一個星從天落到地上。有無底坑的鑰匙賜給他。
And the fifth angel sounded, and I saw a star fall from heaven unto the earth: and to him was given the key of the bottomless pit.

9:2    他開了無底坑，便有煙從坑裡往上冒，好像大火爐的煙。日頭和天空，都因這煙昏暗了。
And he opened the bottomless pit; and there arose a smoke out of the pit, as the smoke of a great furnace; and the sun and the air were darkened by reason of the smoke of the pit.

9:3    有蝗蟲從煙中出來飛到地上。有能力賜給他們，好像地上蠍子的能力一樣。
And there came out of the smoke locusts upon the earth: and unto them was given power, as the scorpions of the earth have power.

9:4    並且吩咐他們說，不可傷害地上的草，和各樣青物，並一切樹木，惟獨要傷害額上沒有神印記的人。
And it was commanded them that they should not hurt the grass of the earth, neither any green thing, neither any tree; but only those men which have not the seal of God in their foreheads.

9:5    但不許蝗蟲害死他們，只叫他們受痛苦五個月。這痛苦就像蠍子螫人的痛苦一樣。
And to them it was given that they should not kill them, but that they should be tormented five months: and their torment was as the torment of a scorpion, when he striketh a man.

9:6    在那些日子，人要求死，決不得死。願意死，死卻遠避他們。
And in those days shall men seek death, and shall not find it; and shall desire to die, and death shall flee from them.

9:7    蝗蟲的形狀，好像豫備出戰的馬一樣，頭上戴的好像金冠冕，臉面好像男人的臉面。
And the shapes of the locusts were like unto horses prepared unto battle; and on their heads were as it were crowns like gold, and their faces were as the faces of men.

9:8    頭髮像女人的頭髮，牙齒像獅子的牙齒。
And they had hair as the hair of women, and their teeth were as the teeth of lions.

9:9    胸前有甲，好像鐵甲。他們翅膀的聲音，好像許多車馬奔跑上陣的聲音。
And they had breastplates, as it were breastplates of iron; and the sound of their wings was as the sound of chariots of many horses running to battle.

9:10    有尾巴像蠍子。尾巴上的毒鉤能傷人五個月。
And they had tails like unto scorpions, and there were stings in their tails: and their power was to hurt men five months.

9:11    有無底坑的使者作他們的王。按著希伯來話，名叫亞巴頓，希臘話，名叫亞玻倫。
And they had a king over them, which is the angel of the bottomless pit, whose name in the Hebrew tongue is Abaddon, but in the Greek tongue hath his name Apollyon.

9:12    第一樣災禍過去，還有兩樣災禍要來。
One woe is past; and, behold, there come two woes more hereafter.

9:13    第六位天使吹號，我就聽見有聲音，從神面前金壇的四角出來，
And the sixth angel sounded, and I heard a voice from the four horns of the golden altar which is before God,

9:14    吩咐那吹號的第六位天使，說，把那捆綁在伯拉大河的四個使者釋放了。
Saying to the sixth angel which had the trumpet, Loose the four angels which are bound in the great river Euphrates.

9:15    那四個使者就被釋放。他們原是豫備好了，到某年某月某日某時，要殺人的三分之一。
And the four angels were loosed, which were prepared for an hour, and a day, and a month, and a year, for to slay the third part of men.

9:16    馬軍有二萬萬。他們的數目我聽見了。
And the number of the army of the horsemen were two hundred thousand thousand: and I heard the number of them.

9:17    我在異象中看見那些馬和騎馬的，騎馬的胸前有甲如火，與紫瑪瑙，並硫磺。馬的頭好像獅子頭，有火，有煙，有硫磺，從馬的口中出來。
And thus I saw the horses in the vision, and them that sat on them, having breastplates of fire, and of jacinth, and brimstone: and the heads of the horses were as the heads of lions; and out of their mouths issued fire and smoke and brimstone.

9:18    口中所出來的火，與煙，並硫磺，這三樣災殺了人的三分之一。
By these three was the third part of men killed, by the fire, and by the smoke, and by the brimstone, which issued out of their mouths.

9:19    這馬的能力，是在口裡，和尾巴上。因這尾巴像蛇，並且有頭用以害人。
For their power is in their mouth, and in their tails: for their tails were like unto serpents, and had heads, and with them they do hurt.

9:20    其餘未曾被這災所殺的人，仍舊不悔改自己手所作的，還是去拜鬼魔，和那些不能看，不能聽，不能走，金，銀，銅，木，石，的偶像。
And the rest of the men which were not killed by these plagues yet repented not of the works of their hands, that they should not worship devils, and idols of gold, and silver, and brass, and stone, and of wood: which neither can see, nor hear, nor walk:

9:21    又不悔改他們那些凶殺，邪術，姦淫，偷竊的事。
Neither repented they of their murders, nor of their sorceries, nor of their fornication, nor of their thefts.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


10:1    我又看見另有一位大力的天使，從天降下，披著雲彩，頭上有虹。臉面像日頭，兩腳像火柱。
And I saw another mighty angel come down from heaven, clothed with a cloud: and a rainbow was upon his head, and his face was as it were the sun, and his feet as pillars of fire:

10:2    他手裡拿著小書卷是展開的。他用右腳踏海，左腳踏地。
And he had in his hand a little book open: and he set his right foot upon the sea, and his left foot on the earth,

10:3    大聲呼喊，好像獅子吼叫，呼喊完了，就有七雷發聲。
And cried with a loud voice, as when a lion roareth: and when he had cried, seven thunders uttered their voices.

10:4    七雷發聲之後，我正要寫出來，就聽見從天上有聲音說，七雷所說的你要封上，不可寫出來。
And when the seven thunders had uttered their voices, I was about to write: and I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Seal up those things which the seven thunders uttered, and write them not.

10:5    我所看見的那踏海踏地的天使，向天舉起右手來，
And the angel which I saw stand upon the sea and upon the earth lifted up his hand to heaven,

10:6    指著那創造天和天上之物，地和地上之物，海和海中之物，直活到永永遠遠的，起誓說，不再有時日了。（或作不再耽延了）
And sware by him that liveth for ever and ever, who created heaven, and the things that therein are, and the earth, and the things that therein are, and the sea, and the things which are therein, that there should be time no longer:

10:7    但在第七位天使吹號發聲的時候，神的奧祕，就成全了，正如神所傳給他僕人眾先知的佳音。
But in the days of the voice of the seventh angel, when he shall begin to sound, the mystery of God should be finished, as he hath declared to his servants the prophets.

10:8    我先前從天上所聽見的那聲音，又吩咐我說，你去把那踏海踏地之天使手中展開的小書卷取過來。
And the voice which I heard from heaven spake unto me again, and said, Go and take the little book which is open in the hand of the angel which standeth upon the sea and upon the earth.

10:9    我就走到天使那裡，對他說，請你把小書卷給我。他對我說，你拿著吃盡了，便叫你肚子發苦，然而在你口中要甜如蜜。
And I went unto the angel, and said unto him, Give me the little book. And he said unto me, Take it, and eat it up; and it shall make thy belly bitter, but it shall be in thy mouth sweet as honey.

10:10    我從天使手中把小書卷接過來，吃盡了。在我口中果然甜如蜜。吃了以後，肚子覺得發苦了。
And I took the little book out of the angel's hand, and ate it up; and it was in my mouth sweet as honey: and as soon as I had eaten it, my belly was bitter.

10:11    天使（原文作他們）對我說，你必指著多民多國多方多王說預言。
And he said unto me, Thou must prophesy again before many peoples, and nations, and tongues, and kings.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


11:1    有一根葦子賜給我，當作量度的杖。且有話說，起來，將神的殿，和祭壇，並在殿中禮拜的人，都量一量。
And there was given me a reed like unto a rod: and the angel stood, saying, Rise, and measure the temple of God, and the altar, and them that worship therein.

11:2    只是殿外的院子，要留下不用量。因為這是給了外邦人的。他們要踐踏聖城四十二個月。
But the court which is without the temple leave out, and measure it not; for it is given unto the Gentiles: and the holy city shall they tread under foot forty and two months.

11:3    我要使我那兩個見證人，穿著毛衣，傳道一千二百六十天。
And I will give power unto my two witnesses, and they shall prophesy a thousand two hundred and threescore days, clothed in sackcloth.

11:4    他們就是那兩棵橄欖樹，兩個燈臺，立在世界之主面前的。
These are the two olive trees, and the two candlesticks standing before the God of the earth.

11:5    若有人想要害他們就有火從他們口中出來，燒滅仇敵。凡想要害他們的，都必這樣被殺。
And if any man will hurt them, fire proceedeth out of their mouth, and devoureth their enemies: and if any man will hurt them, he must in this manner be killed.

11:6    這二人有權柄，在他們傳道的日子叫天閉塞不下雨，叫水變為血。並且能隨時隨意用各樣的災殃攻擊世界。
These have power to shut heaven, that it rain not in the days of their prophecy: and have power over waters to turn them to blood, and to smite the earth with all plagues, as often as they will.

11:7    他們作完見證的時候，那從無底坑裡上來的獸，必與他們交戰，並且得勝，把他們殺了。
And when they shall have finished their testimony, the beast that ascendeth out of the bottomless pit shall make war against them, and shall overcome them, and kill them.

11:8    他們的屍首就倒在大城裡的街上。這城按著靈意叫所多瑪，又叫埃及，就是他們的主釘十字架之處。
And their dead bodies shall lie in the street of the great city, which spiritually is called Sodom and Egypt, where also our Lord was crucified.

11:9    從各民各族各方各國中，有人觀看他們的屍首三天半，又不許把屍首放在墳墓裡。
And they of the people and kindreds and tongues and nations shall see their dead bodies three days and an half, and shall not suffer their dead bodies to be put in graves.

11:10    住在地上的人，就為他們歡喜快樂，互相饋送禮物。因這兩位先知曾叫住在地上的人受痛苦。
And they that dwell upon the earth shall rejoice over them, and make merry, and shall send gifts one to another; because these two prophets tormented them that dwelt on the earth.

11:11    過了三天半，有生氣從神那裡進入他們裡面，他們就站起來。看見他們的人甚是害怕。
And after three days and an half the Spirit of life from God entered into them, and they stood upon their feet; and great fear fell upon them which saw them.

11:12    兩位先知聽見有大聲音從天上來，對他們說，上到這裡來。他們就駕著雲上了天。他們的仇敵也看見了。
And they heard a great voice from heaven saying unto them, Come up hither. And they ascended up to heaven in a cloud; and their enemies beheld them.

11:13    正在那時候，地大震動，城就倒塌了十分之一。因地震而死的有七千人。其餘的都恐懼，歸榮耀給天上的神。
And the same hour was there a great earthquake, and the tenth part of the city fell, and in the earthquake were slain of men seven thousand: and the remnant were affrighted, and gave glory to the God of heaven.

11:14    第二樣災禍過去。第三災禍快到了。
The second woe is past; and, behold, the third woe cometh quickly.

11:15    第七位天使吹號，天上就有大聲音說，世上的國，成了我主和主基督的國。他要作王，直到永永遠遠。
And the seventh angel sounded; and there were great voices in heaven, saying, The kingdoms of this world are become the kingdoms of our Lord, and of his Christ; and he shall reign for ever and ever.

11:16    在神面前，坐在自己位上的二十四位長老，就面伏於地敬拜神，
And the four and twenty elders, which sat before God on their seats, fell upon their faces, and worshipped God,

11:17    說，昔在今在的主神，全能者阿，我們感謝你，因你執掌大權作王了。
Saying, We give thee thanks, O LORD God Almighty, which art, and wast, and art to come; because thou hast taken to thee thy great power, and hast reigned.

11:18    外邦發怒，你的忿怒也臨到了。審判死人的時候也到了。你的僕人眾先知，和眾聖徒，凡敬畏你名的人連大帶小得賞賜的時候也到了。你敗壞那些敗壞世界之人的時候也就到了。
And the nations were angry, and thy wrath is come, and the time of the dead, that they should be judged, and that thou shouldest give reward unto thy servants the prophets, and to the saints, and them that fear thy name, small and great; and shouldest destroy them which destroy the earth.

11:19    當時神天上的殿開了。在他殿中現出他的約櫃後有閃電，聲音，雷轟，地震，大雹。
And the temple of God was opened in heaven, and there was seen in his temple the ark of his testament: and there were lightnings, and voices, and thunderings, and an earthquake, and great hail.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


12:1    天上現出大異象來。有一個婦人，身披日頭，腳踏月亮，頭戴十二星的冠冕。
And there appeared a great wonder in heaven; a woman clothed with the sun, and the moon under her feet, and upon her head a crown of twelve stars:

12:2    他懷了孕，在生產的艱難中疼痛呼叫。
And she being with child cried, travailing in birth, and pained to be delivered.

12:3    天上又現出異象來。有一條大紅龍，七頭十角，七頭上戴著七個冠冕。
And there appeared another wonder in heaven; and behold a great red dragon, having seven heads and ten horns, and seven crowns upon his heads.

12:4    他的尾巴拖拉著天上星辰的三分之一，摔在地上。龍就站在那將要生產的婦人面前，等他生產之後，要吞吃他的孩子。
And his tail drew the third part of the stars of heaven, and did cast them to the earth: and the dragon stood before the woman which was ready to be delivered, for to devour her child as soon as it was born.

12:5    婦人生了一個男孩，是將來要用鐵杖轄管萬國的。（轄管原文作牧）他的孩子被提到神寶座那裡去了。
And she brought forth a man child, who was to rule all nations with a rod of iron: and her child was caught up unto God, and to his throne.

12:6    婦人就逃到曠野，在那裡有神給他豫備的地方，使他被養活一千二百六十天。
And the woman fled into the wilderness, where she hath a place prepared of God, that they should feed her there a thousand two hundred and threescore days.

12:7    在天上就有了爭戰。米迦勒同他的使者與龍爭戰。龍也同他的使者去爭戰。
And there was war in heaven: Michael and his angels fought against the dragon; and the dragon fought and his angels,

12:8    並沒有得勝，天上再沒有他們的地方。
And prevailed not; neither was their place found any more in heaven.

12:9    大龍就是那古蛇，名叫魔鬼，又叫撒但，是迷惑普天下的。他被摔在地上，他的使者也一同被摔下去。
And the great dragon was cast out, that old serpent, called the Devil, and Satan, which deceiveth the whole world: he was cast out into the earth, and his angels were cast out with him.

12:10    我聽見在天上有大聲音說，我神的救恩，能力，國度，並他基督的權柄，現在都來到了。因為那在我們神面前晝夜控告我們弟兄的，已經被摔下去了。
And I heard a loud voice saying in heaven, Now is come salvation, and strength, and the kingdom of our God, and the power of his Christ: for the accuser of our brethren is cast down, which accused them before our God day and night.

12:11    弟兄勝過他，是因羔羊的血，和自己所見證的道。他們雖至於死，也不愛惜性命。
And they overcame him by the blood of the Lamb, and by the word of their testimony; and they loved not their lives unto the death.



12:12    所以諸天和住在其中的，你們都快樂吧。只是地與海有禍了，因為魔鬼知道自己的時候不多，就氣忿忿的下到你們那裡去了。
Therefore rejoice, ye heavens, and ye that dwell in them. Woe to the inhabiters of the earth and of the sea! for the devil is come down unto you, having great wrath, because he knoweth that he hath but a short time.

12:13    龍見自己被摔在地上，就逼迫那生男孩子的婦人。
And when the dragon saw that he was cast unto the earth, he persecuted the woman which brought forth the man child.

12:14    於是有大鷹的兩個翅膀賜給婦人，叫他能飛到曠野，到自己的地方，躲避那蛇。他在那裡被養活一載二載半載。
And to the woman were given two wings of a great eagle, that she might fly into the wilderness, into her place, where she is nourished for a time, and times, and half a time, from the face of the serpent.

12:15    蛇就在婦人身後，從口中吐出水來像河一樣，要將婦人衝去。
And the serpent cast out of his mouth water as a flood after the woman, that he might cause her to be carried away of the flood.

12:16    地卻幫助婦人，開口吞了從龍口吐出來的水。（原文作河）
And the earth helped the woman, and the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed up the flood which the dragon cast out of his mouth.

12:17    龍向婦人發怒，去與他其餘的兒女爭戰，這兒女就是那守神誡命，為耶穌作見證的。那時龍就站在海邊的沙上。
And the dragon was wroth with the woman, and went to make war with the remnant of her seed, which keep the commandments of God, and have the testimony of Jesus Christ.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


13:1    我又看見一個獸從海中上來，有十角七頭，在十角上戴著十個冠冕，七頭上有褻瀆的名號。
And I stood upon the sand of the sea, and saw a beast rise up out of the sea, having seven heads and ten horns, and upon his horns ten crowns, and upon his heads the name of blasphemy.

13:2    我所看見的獸，形狀像豹，腳像熊的腳，口像獅子的口。那龍將自己的能力，座位，和大權柄，都給了他。
And the beast which I saw was like unto a leopard, and his feet were as the feet of a bear, and his mouth as the mouth of a lion: and the dragon gave him his power, and his seat, and great authority.

13:3    我看見獸的七頭中，有一個似乎受了死傷。那死傷卻醫好了。全地的人，都希奇跟從那獸。
And I saw one of his heads as it were wounded to death; and his deadly wound was healed: and all the world wondered after the beast.

13:4    又拜那龍，因為他將自己的權柄給了獸。也拜獸說，誰能比這獸，誰能與他交戰呢。
And they worshipped the dragon which gave power unto the beast: and they worshipped the beast, saying, Who is like unto the beast? who is able to make war with him?

13:5    又賜給他說誇大褻瀆話的口。又有權柄賜給他，可以任意而行四十二個月。
And there was given unto him a mouth speaking great things and blasphemies; and power was given unto him to continue forty and two months.

13:6    獸就開口向神說褻瀆的話，褻瀆神的名，並他的帳幕，以及那些住在天上的。
And he opened his mouth in blasphemy against God, to blaspheme his name, and his tabernacle, and them that dwell in heaven.

13:7    又任憑他與聖徒爭戰，並且得勝。也把權柄賜給他，制伏各族各民各方各國。
And it was given unto him to make war with the saints, and to overcome them: and power was given him over all kindreds, and tongues, and nations.

13:8    凡住在地上，名字從創世以來，沒有記在被殺之羔羊生命冊上的人，都要拜他。
And all that dwell upon the earth shall worship him, whose names are not written in the book of life of the Lamb slain from the foundation of the world.

13:9    凡有耳的，就應當聽。
If any man have an ear, let him hear.

13:10    擄掠人的必被擄掠。用刀殺人的，必被刀殺。聖徒的忍耐和信心，就是在此。
He that leadeth into captivity shall go into captivity: he that killeth with the sword must be killed with the sword. Here is the patience and the faith of the saints.

13:11    我又看見另有一個獸從地中上來。有兩角如同羊羔，說話好像龍。
And I beheld another beast coming up out of the earth; and he had two horns like a lamb, and he spake as a dragon.

13:12    他在頭一個獸面前，施行頭一個獸所有的權柄。並且叫地和住在地上的人，拜那死傷醫好的頭一個獸。
And he exerciseth all the power of the first beast before him, and causeth the earth and them which dwell therein to worship the first beast, whose deadly wound was healed.

13:13    又行大奇事，甚至在人面前，叫火從天降在地上。
And he doeth great wonders, so that he maketh fire come down from heaven on the earth in the sight of men,

13:14    他因賜給他們權柄在獸面前能行奇事，就迷惑住在地上的人，說，要給那受刀傷還活著的獸作個像。
And deceiveth them that dwell on the earth by the means of those miracles which he had power to do in the sight of the beast; saying to them that dwell on the earth, that they should make an image to the beast, which had the wound by a sword, and did live.

13:15    又有權柄賜給他叫獸像有生氣。並且能說話，又叫所有不拜獸像的人都被殺害。
And he had power to give life unto the image of the beast, that the image of the beast should both speak, and cause that as many as would not worship the image of the beast should be killed.

13:16    他又叫眾人，無論大小貧福，自主的，為奴的，都在右手上，或是在額上，受一個印記。
And he causeth all, both small and great, rich and poor, free and bond, to receive a mark in their right hand, or in their foreheads:

13:17    除了那受印記，有了獸名，或有獸名數目的，都不得作買賣。
And that no man might buy or sell, save he that had the mark, or the name of the beast, or the number of his name.

13:18    在這裡有智慧。凡有聰明的，可以算計獸的數目，因為這是人的數目。他的數目是六百六十六。
Here is wisdom. Let him that hath understanding count the number of the beast: for it is the number of a man; and his number is Six hundred threescore and six.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


14:1    我又觀看，見羔羊站在錫安山，同他又有十四萬四千人，都有他的名，和他父的名，寫在額上。
And I looked, and, lo, a Lamb stood on the mount Sion, and with him an hundred forty and four thousand, having his Father's name written in their foreheads.

14:2    我聽見從天上有聲音，像眾水的聲音，和大雷的聲音。並且我所聽見的好像彈琴的所彈的琴聲。
And I heard a voice from heaven, as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of a great thunder: and I heard the voice of harpers harping with their harps:

14:3    他們在寶座前，並在四活物和眾長老前唱歌，彷佛是新歌。除了從地上買來的那十四萬四千人以外，沒有人能學這歌。
And they sung as it were a new song before the throne, and before the four beasts, and the elders: and no man could learn that song but the hundred and forty and four thousand, which were redeemed from the earth.

14:4    這些人未曾沾染婦女，他們原是童身。羔羊無論往那裡去，他們都跟隨他。他們是從人間買來的，作初熟的果子歸與神和羔羊。
These are they which were not defiled with women; for they are virgins. These are they which follow the Lamb whithersoever he goeth. These were redeemed from among men, being the firstfruits unto God and to the Lamb.

14:5    在他們口中察不出謊言來。他們是沒有瑕疵的。
And in their mouth was found no guile: for they are without fault before the throne of God.

14:6    我又看見另一位天使飛在空中，有永遠的福音要傳給住在地上的人，就是各國各族各方各民。
And I saw another angel fly in the midst of heaven, having the everlasting gospel to preach unto them that dwell on the earth, and to every nation, and kindred, and tongue, and people,

14:7    他大聲說，應當敬畏神，將榮耀歸給他。因他施行審判的時候已經到了。應當敬拜那創造天地海和眾水泉源的。
Saying with a loud voice, Fear God, and give glory to him; for the hour of his judgment is come: and worship him that made heaven, and earth, and the sea, and the fountains of waters.

14:8    又有第二位天使，接著說，叫萬民喝邪淫大怒之酒的巴比倫大城傾倒了，傾倒了。
And there followed another angel, saying, Babylon is fallen, is fallen, that great city, because she made all nations drink of the wine of the wrath of her fornication.

14:9    又有第三位天使，接著他們，大聲說，若有人拜獸和獸像，在額上，或在手上，受了印記，
And the third angel followed them, saying with a loud voice, If any man worship the beast and his image, and receive his mark in his forehead, or in his hand,

14:10    這人也必喝神大怒的酒，此酒斟在神忿怒的杯中純一不雜。他要在聖天使和羔羊面前，在火與硫磺之中受痛苦。
The same shall drink of the wine of the wrath of God, which is poured out without mixture into the cup of his indignation; and he shall be tormented with fire and brimstone in the presence of the holy angels, and in the presence of the Lamb:

14:11    他受痛苦的煙往上冒，直到永永遠遠。那些拜獸和獸像受他名之印記的，晝夜不得安寧。
And the smoke of their torment ascendeth up for ever and ever: and they have no rest day nor night, who worship the beast and his image, and whosoever receiveth the mark of his name.

14:12    聖徒的忍耐就在此。他們是守神誡命，和耶穌真道的。
Here is the patience of the saints: here are they that keep the commandments of God, and the faith of Jesus.

14:13    我聽見從天上有聲音說，你要寫下，從今以後，在主裡面而死的人有福了。聖靈說，是的，他們息了自己的勞苦，作工的果效也隨著他們。
And I heard a voice from heaven saying unto me, Write, Blessed are the dead which die in the Lord from henceforth: Yea, saith the Spirit, that they may rest from their labours; and their works do follow them.

14:14    我又觀看，見有一片白雲，雲上坐著一位好像人子，頭上戴著金冠冕，手裡拿著快鐮刀。
And I looked, and behold a white cloud, and upon the cloud one sat like unto the Son of man, having on his head a golden crown, and in his hand a sharp sickle.

14:15    又有一位天使從殿中出來，向那坐在雲上的大聲喊著說，伸出你的鐮刀來收割。因為收割的時候已經到了，地上的莊稼已經熟透了。
And another angel came out of the temple, crying with a loud voice to him that sat on the cloud, Thrust in thy sickle, and reap: for the time is come for thee to reap; for the harvest of the earth is ripe.

14:16    那坐在雲上的，就把鐮刀扔在地上。地上的莊稼就被收割了。
And he that sat on the cloud thrust in his sickle on the earth; and the earth was reaped.

14:17    又有一位天使從天上的殿中出來，他也拿著快鐮刀。
And another angel came out of the temple which is in heaven, he also having a sharp sickle.

14:18    又有一位天使從祭壇中出來，是有權柄管火的，向拿著快鐮刀的大聲喊著說，伸出快鐮刀來收取地上葡萄樹的果子。因為葡萄熟透了。
And another angel came out from the altar, which had power over fire; and cried with a loud cry to him that had the sharp sickle, saying, Thrust in thy sharp sickle, and gather the clusters of the vine of the earth; for her grapes are fully ripe.

14:19    那天使就把鐮刀扔在地上，收取了地上的葡萄，丟在神忿怒的大酒榨中。
And the angel thrust in his sickle into the earth, and gathered the vine of the earth, and cast it into the great winepress of the wrath of God.

14:20    那酒榨踹在城外，就有血從酒榨裡流出來，高到馬的嚼環，遠有六百里。
And the winepress was trodden without the city, and blood came out of the winepress, even unto the horse bridles, by the space of a thousand and six hundred furlongs.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


15:1    我又看見在天上有異象，大而且奇，就是七位天使掌管末了的七災。因為神的大怒在這七災中發盡了。
And I saw another sign in heaven, great and marvellous, seven angels having the seven last plagues; for in them is filled up the wrath of God.

15:2    我看見彷佛有玻璃海，其中有火攙雜。又看見那些勝了獸和獸的像，並他名字數目的人，都站在玻璃海上，拿著神的琴。
And I saw as it were a sea of glass mingled with fire: and them that had gotten the victory over the beast, and over his image, and over his mark, and over the number of his name, stand on the sea of glass, having the harps of God.

15:3    唱神僕人摩西的歌，和羔羊的歌，說，主神，全能者阿，你的作為大哉，奇哉。萬世之王阿，（世或作國）你的道途義哉，誠哉。
And they sing the song of Moses the servant of God, and the song of the Lamb, saying, Great and marvellous are thy works, Lord God Almighty; just and true are thy ways, thou King of saints.

15:4    主阿，誰敢不敬畏你，不將榮耀歸與你的名呢。因為獨有你是聖的。萬民都要來在你面前敬拜。因你公義的作為已經顯出來了。
Who shall not fear thee, O Lord, and glorify thy name? for thou only art holy: for all nations shall come and worship before thee; for thy judgments are made manifest.

15:5    此後，我看見在天上那存法櫃的殿開了。
And after that I looked, and, behold, the temple of the tabernacle of the testimony in heaven was opened:

15:6    那掌管七災的七位天使，從殿中出來，穿著潔白光明的細麻衣，（細麻衣有古卷作寶石）胸間束著金帶。
And the seven angels came out of the temple, having the seven plagues, clothed in pure and white linen, and having their breasts girded with golden girdles.

15:7    四活物中有一個把盛滿了活到永永遠遠之神大怒的七個金碗給了那七位天使。
And one of the four beasts gave unto the seven angels seven golden vials full of the wrath of God, who liveth for ever and ever.

15:8    因神的榮耀，和能力，殿中充滿了煙。於是沒有人能以進殿，直等到那七位天使所降的七災完畢了。
And the temple was filled with smoke from the glory of God, and from his power; and no man was able to enter into the temple, till the seven plagues of the seven angels were fulfilled.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


16:1    我聽見有大聲音從殿中出來，向那七位天使說，你們去，把盛神大怒的七碗倒在地上。
And I heard a great voice out of the temple saying to the seven angels, Go your ways, and pour out the vials of the wrath of God upon the earth.



16:2    第一位天使便去，把碗倒在地上，就有惡而且毒的瘡，生在那些有獸印記，拜獸像的人身上。
And the first went, and poured out his vial upon the earth; and there fell a noisome and grievous sore upon the men which had the mark of the beast, and upon them which worshipped his image.

16:3    第二位天使把碗倒在海里，海就變成血，好像死人的血，海中的活物都死了。
And the second angel poured out his vial upon the sea; and it became as the blood of a dead man: and every living soul died in the sea.

16:4    第三位天使把碗倒在江河與眾水的泉源裡，水就變成血了。
And the third angel poured out his vial upon the rivers and fountains of waters; and they became blood.

16:5    我聽見掌管眾水的天使說，昔在今在的聖者阿，你這樣判斷是公義的。
And I heard the angel of the waters say, Thou art righteous, O Lord, which art, and wast, and shalt be, because thou hast judged thus.



16:6    他們曾流聖徒與先知的血，現在你給他們血喝。這是他們所該受的。
For they have shed the blood of saints and prophets, and thou hast given them blood to drink; for they are worthy.

16:7    我又聽見祭壇中有聲音說，是的，主神，全能者阿，你的判斷義哉，誠哉。
And I heard another out of the altar say, Even so, Lord God Almighty, true and righteous are thy judgments.

16:8    第四位天使把碗倒在日頭上，叫日頭能用火烤人。
And the fourth angel poured out his vial upon the sun; and power was given unto him to scorch men with fire.

16:9    人被大熱所烤，就褻瀆那有權掌管這些災的神之名，並不悔改將榮耀歸給神。
And men were scorched with great heat, and blasphemed the name of God, which hath power over these plagues: and they repented not to give him glory.

16:10    第五位天使把碗倒在獸的座位上，獸的國就黑暗了。人因疼痛就咬自己的舌頭。
And the fifth angel poured out his vial upon the seat of the beast; and his kingdom was full of darkness; and they gnawed their tongues for pain,

16:11    又因所受的疼痛，和生的瘡，就褻瀆天上的神。並不悔改所行的。
And blasphemed the God of heaven because of their pains and their sores, and repented not of their deeds.

16:12    第六位天使把碗倒在伯拉大河上，河水就乾了，要給那從日出之地所來的眾王豫備道路。
And the sixth angel poured out his vial upon the great river Euphrates; and the water thereof was dried up, that the way of the kings of the east might be prepared.

16:13    我又看見三個汙穢的靈，好像青蛙，從龍口獸口並假先知的口中出來。
And I saw three unclean spirits like frogs come out of the mouth of the dragon, and out of the mouth of the beast, and out of the mouth of the false prophet.

16:14    他們本是鬼魔的靈，施行奇事，出去到普天下眾王那裡，叫他們在神全能者的大日聚集爭戰。
For they are the spirits of devils, working miracles, which go forth unto the kings of the earth and of the whole world, to gather them to the battle of that great day of God Almighty.

16:15    （看哪，我來像賊一樣。那儆醒，看守衣服，免得赤身而行，叫人見他羞恥的，有福了
Behold, I come as a thief. Blessed is he that watcheth, and keepeth his garments, lest he walk naked, and they see his shame.

16:16    那三個鬼魔便叫眾王聚集在一處，希伯來話叫哈米吉多頓。
And he gathered them together into a place called in the Hebrew tongue Armageddon.

16:17    第七位天使把碗倒在空中，就有大聲音從殿中的寶座上出來，說，成了。
And the seventh angel poured out his vial into the air; and there came a great voice out of the temple of heaven, from the throne, saying, It is done.

16:18    又有閃電，聲音，雷轟，大地震，自從地上有人以來，沒有這樣大這樣利害的地震。
And there were voices, and thunders, and lightnings; and there was a great earthquake, such as was not since men were upon the earth, so mighty an earthquake, and so great.

16:19    那大城裂為三段，列國的城也都倒塌了。神也想起巴比倫大城來，要把那盛自己烈怒的酒杯遞給他。
And the great city was divided into three parts, and the cities of the nations fell: and great Babylon came in remembrance before God, to give unto her the cup of the wine of the fierceness of his wrath.

16:20    各海島都逃避了，眾山也不見了。
And every island fled away, and the mountains were not found.

16:21    又有大雹子從天落在人身上，每一個約重一他連得。（一他連得約有九十斤）為這雹子的災極大，人就褻瀆神。
And there fell upon men a great hail out of heaven, every stone about the weight of a talent: and men blasphemed God because of the plague of the hail; for the plague thereof was exceeding great.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


17:1    拿著七碗的七位天使中，有一位前來對我說，你到這裡來，我將坐在眾水上的大淫婦所要受的刑罰指給你看。
And there came one of the seven angels which had the seven vials, and talked with me, saying unto me, Come hither; I will shew unto thee the judgment of the great whore that sitteth upon many waters:

17:2    地上的君王與他行淫。住在地上的人喝醉了他淫亂的酒。
With whom the kings of the earth have committed fornication, and the inhabitants of the earth have been made drunk with the wine of her fornication.

17:3    我被聖靈感動，天使帶我到曠野去。我就看見一個女人騎在硃紅色的獸上。那獸有七頭十角，遍體有褻瀆的名號。
So he carried me away in the spirit into the wilderness: and I saw a woman sit upon a scarlet coloured beast, full of names of blasphemy, having seven heads and ten horns.

17:4    那女人穿著紫色和硃紅色的衣服，用金子寶石珍珠為妝飾。手拿金盃，杯中盛滿了可憎之物，就是他淫亂的汙穢。
And the woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet colour, and decked with gold and precious stones and pearls, having a golden cup in her hand full of abominations and filthiness of her fornication:

17:5    在他額上有名寫著說，奧祕哉，大巴比倫，作世上的淫婦和一切可憎之物的母。
And upon her forehead was a name written, MYSTERY, BABYLON THE GREAT, THE MOTHER OF HARLOTS AND ABOMINATIONS OF THE EARTH.

17:6    我又看見那女人喝醉了聖徒的血，和為耶穌作見證之人的血。我看見他，就大大的希奇。
And I saw the woman drunken with the blood of the saints, and with the blood of the martyrs of Jesus: and when I saw her, I wondered with great admiration.

17:7    天使對我說，你為什麼希奇呢。我要將這女人和馱著他的那七頭十角獸的奧祕告訴你。
And the angel said unto me, Wherefore didst thou marvel? I will tell thee the mystery of the woman, and of the beast that carrieth her, which hath the seven heads and ten horns.

17:8    你所看見的獸，先前有，如今沒有。將要從無底坑裡上來，又要歸於沉淪。凡住在地上名字從創世以來沒有記在生命冊上的，見先前有，如今沒有，以後再有的獸，就必希奇。
The beast that thou sawest was, and is not; and shall ascend out of the bottomless pit, and go into perdition: and they that dwell on the earth shall wonder, whose names were not written in the book of life from the foundation of the world, when they behold the beast that was, and is not, and yet is.

17:9    智慧的心在此可以思想。那七頭就是女人所坐的七座山。
And here is the mind which hath wisdom. The seven heads are seven mountains, on which the woman sitteth.

17:10    又是七位王。五位已經傾倒了，一位還在，一位還沒有來到。他來的時候，必須暫時存留。
And there are seven kings: five are fallen, and one is, and the other is not yet come; and when he cometh, he must continue a short space.

17:11    那先前有，如今沒有的獸，就是第八位。他也和那七位同列，並且歸於沉淪。
And the beast that was, and is not, even he is the eighth, and is of the seven, and goeth into perdition.

17:12    你所看見的那十角，就是十王。他們還沒有得國。但他們一時之間，要和獸同得權柄與王一樣。
And the ten horns which thou sawest are ten kings, which have received no kingdom as yet; but receive power as kings one hour with the beast.

17:13    他們同心合意，將自己的能力權柄給那獸。
These have one mind, and shall give their power and strength unto the beast.

17:14    他們與羔羊爭戰，羔羊必勝過他們，因為羔羊是萬主之主，萬王之王。同著羔羊的，就是蒙召被選有忠心的，也必得勝。
These shall make war with the Lamb, and the Lamb shall overcome them: for he is Lord of lords, and King of kings: and they that are with him are called, and chosen, and faithful.

17:15    天使又對我說，你所看見那淫婦坐的眾水，就是多民多人多國多方。
And he saith unto me, The waters which thou sawest, where the whore sitteth, are peoples, and multitudes, and nations, and tongues.

17:16    你所看見的那十角，與獸，必恨這淫婦，使他冷落赤身。又要吃他的肉，用火將他燒盡。
And the ten horns which thou sawest upon the beast, these shall hate the whore, and shall make her desolate and naked, and shall eat her flesh, and burn her with fire.

17:17    因為神使諸王同心合意，遵行他的旨意，把自己的國給那獸，直等到神的話都應驗了。
For God hath put in their hearts to fulfil his will, and to agree, and give their kingdom unto the beast, until the words of God shall be fulfilled.

17:18    你所看見的那女人，就是管轄地上眾王的大城。
And the woman which thou sawest is that great city, which reigneth over the kings of the earth.





新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


18:1    此後，我看見另有一位有大權柄的天使從天降下。地就因他的榮耀發光。
And after these things I saw another angel come down from heaven, having great power; and the earth was lightened with his glory.

18:2    他大聲喊著說，巴比倫大城傾倒了，成了鬼魔的住處，和各樣汙穢之靈的巢穴，（或作牢獄下同）並各樣汙穢可憎之雀鳥的巢穴。
And he cried mightily with a strong voice, saying, Babylon the great is fallen, is fallen, and is become the habitation of devils, and the hold of every foul spirit, and a cage of every unclean and hateful bird.

18:3    因為列國都被他邪淫大怒的酒傾倒了。地上的君王與他行淫，地上的客商，因他奢華太過就發了財。
For all nations have drunk of the wine of the wrath of her fornication, and the kings of the earth have committed fornication with her, and the merchants of the earth are waxed rich through the abundance of her delicacies.

18:4    我又聽見從天上有聲音說，我的民哪，你們要從那城出來，免得與他一同有罪，受他所受的災殃。
And I heard another voice from heaven, saying, Come out of her, my people, that ye be not partakers of her sins, and that ye receive not of her plagues.

18:5    因他的罪惡滔天他的不義神已經想起來了。
For her sins have reached unto heaven, and God hath remembered her iniquities.

18:6    他怎樣待人，也要怎樣待他，按他所行的加倍的報應他。用他調酒的杯，加倍的調給他喝。
Reward her even as she rewarded you, and double unto her double according to her works: in the cup which she hath filled fill to her double.

18:7    他怎樣榮耀自己，怎樣奢華，也當叫他照樣痛苦悲哀。因他心裡說，我坐了皇后的位，並不是寡婦，決不至於悲哀。
How much she hath glorified herself, and lived deliciously, so much torment and sorrow give her: for she saith in her heart, I sit a queen, and am no widow, and shall see no sorrow.

18:8    所以在一天之內，他的災殃要一齊來到，就是死亡，悲哀，饑荒，他又要被火燒盡了。因為審判他的主神大有能力。
Therefore shall her plagues come in one day, death, and mourning, and famine; and she shall be utterly burned with fire: for strong is the Lord God who judgeth her.

18:9    地上的君王，素來與他行淫一同奢華的，看見燒他的煙，就必為他哭泣哀號。
And the kings of the earth, who have committed fornication and lived deliciously with her, shall bewail her, and lament for her, when they shall see the smoke of her burning,

18:10    因怕他的痛苦，就遠遠的站著說，哀哉，哀哉，巴比倫大城，堅固的城阿，一時知間你的刑罰就來到了。
Standing afar off for the fear of her torment, saying, Alas, alas that great city Babylon, that mighty city! for in one hour is thy judgment come.

18:11    地上的客商也都為他哭泣悲哀，因為沒有人再買他們的貨物了。
And the merchants of the earth shall weep and mourn over her; for no man buyeth their merchandise any more:

18:12    這貨物就是金，銀，寶石，珍珠，細麻布，紫色料，綢子，硃紅色料，各樣香木，各樣象牙的器皿，各樣極寶貴的木頭和銅，鐵，漢白玉的器皿，
The merchandise of gold, and silver, and precious stones, and of pearls, and fine linen, and purple, and silk, and scarlet, and all thyine wood, and all manner vessels of ivory, and all manner vessels of most precious wood, and of brass, and iron, and marble,

18:13    並肉桂，豆蔻，香料，香膏，乳香，酒，油，細面，麥子，牛，羊，車，馬，和奴僕，人口。
And cinnamon, and odours, and ointments, and frankincense, and wine, and oil, and fine flour, and wheat, and beasts, and sheep, and horses, and chariots, and slaves, and souls of men.

18:14    巴比倫哪，你所貪愛的果子離開了你。你一切的珍饈美味，和華美的物件，也從你中間毀滅，決不能再見了。
And the fruits that thy soul lusted after are departed from thee, and all things which were dainty and goodly are departed from thee, and thou shalt find them no more at all.

18:15    販賣這些貨物，藉著他發了財的客商，因怕他的痛苦，就遠遠的站著哭泣悲哀，說，
The merchants of these things, which were made rich by her, shall stand afar off for the fear of her torment, weeping and wailing,

18:16    哀哉，哀哉，這大城阿，素常穿著細麻，紫色，硃紅色的衣服，又用金子，寶石，和珍珠為妝飾。
And saying, Alas, alas, that great city, that was clothed in fine linen, and purple, and scarlet, and decked with gold, and precious stones, and pearls!

18:17    一時之間，這嗎大的富厚就歸於無有了。凡船主，和坐船往各處去的，並眾水手，連所有靠海為業的，都遠遠的站著，
For in one hour so great riches is come to nought. And every shipmaster, and all the company in ships, and sailors, and as many as trade by sea, stood afar off,

18:18    看見燒他的煙，就喊著說，有何城能比這大城呢。
And cried when they saw the smoke of her burning, saying, What city is like unto this great city!

18:19    他們又把塵土撒在頭上，哭泣悲哀，喊著說，哀哉，哀哉，這大城阿。凡有船在海中的，都因他的珍寶成了富足。他在一時之間就便成了荒場。
And they cast dust on their heads, and cried, weeping and wailing, saying, Alas, alas, that great city, wherein were made rich all that had ships in the sea by reason of her costliness! for in one hour is she made desolate.

18:20    天哪，眾聖徒眾使徒眾先知阿，你們都要因他歡喜。因為神已經在他身上伸了你們的冤。
Rejoice over her, thou heaven, and ye holy apostles and prophets; for God hath avenged you on her.

18:21    有一位大力的天使舉起一塊石頭，好像大磨石，扔在海里，說，巴比倫大城，也必這樣猛力的被扔下去，不能再見了。
And a mighty angel took up a stone like a great millstone, and cast it into the sea, saying, Thus with violence shall that great city Babylon be thrown down, and shall be found no more at all.

18:22    彈琴，作樂，吹笛，吹號的聲音，在你們中間決不能再聽見。各行手藝人在你中間決不能再遇見。推磨的聲音在你們中間決不能再聽見。
And the voice of harpers, and musicians, and of pipers, and trumpeters, shall be heard no more at all in thee; and no craftsman, of whatsoever craft he be, shall be found any more in thee; and the sound of a millstone shall be heard no more at all in thee;

18:23    燈光在你們中間決不能再照耀。新郎和新婦的聲音，在你們中間決不能再聽見。你的客商原來是地上的尊貴人。萬國也被你的邪術迷惑了。
And the light of a candle shall shine no more at all in thee; and the voice of the bridegroom and of the bride shall be heard no more at all in thee: for thy merchants were the great men of the earth; for by thy sorceries were all nations deceived.

18:24    先知和聖徒，並地上一切被殺之人的血，都在這城裡看見了。
And in her was found the blood of prophets, and of saints, and of all that were slain upon the earth.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


19:1    此後，我聽見好像群眾在天上大聲說，哈利路亞，（就是讚美耶和華的意思）救恩，榮耀，權能，都屬乎我們的神。
And after these things I heard a great voice of much people in heaven, saying, Alleluia; Salvation, and glory, and honour, and power, unto the Lord our God:

19:2    他的判斷是真實公義的。因他判斷了那用淫行敗壞世界的大淫婦，並且向淫婦討流僕人血的罪，給他們伸冤。
For true and righteous are his judgments: for he hath judged the great whore, which did corrupt the earth with her fornication, and hath avenged the blood of his servants at her hand.

19:3    又說，哈利路亞。燒淫婦的煙往上冒，直到永永遠遠。
And again they said, Alleluia.  And her smoke rose up for ever and ever.

19:4    那二十四位長老與四活物，就俯伏敬拜坐寶座的神，說，阿們，哈利路亞。
And the four and twenty elders and the four beasts fell down and worshipped God that sat on the throne, saying, Amen; Alleluia.

19:5    有聲音從寶座出來說，神的眾僕人哪，凡敬畏他的，無論大小，都要讚美我們的神。
And a voice came out of the throne, saying, Praise our God, all ye his servants, and ye that fear him, both small and great.

19:6    我聽見好像群眾的聲音，眾水的聲音，大雷的聲音，說，哈利路亞。因為主我們的神，全能者，作王了。
And I heard as it were the voice of a great multitude, and as the voice of many waters, and as the voice of mighty thunderings, saying, Alleluia: for the Lord God omnipotent reigneth.

19:7    我們要歡喜快樂，將榮耀歸給他。因為羔羊婚娶的時候到了，新婦也自己豫備好了。
Let us be glad and rejoice, and give honour to him: for the marriage of the Lamb is come, and his wife hath made herself ready.

19:8    就蒙恩得穿光明潔白的細麻衣，這細麻衣就是聖徒所行的義。
And to her was granted that she should be arrayed in fine linen, clean and white: for the fine linen is the righteousness of saints.

19:9    天使吩咐我說，你要寫上，凡被請赴羔羊之婚筵的有福了。又對我說，這是神真實的話。
And he saith unto me, Write, Blessed are they which are called unto the marriage supper of the Lamb. And he saith unto me, These are the true sayings of God.

19:10    我就俯伏在他腳前要拜他。他說，千萬不可。我和你並你那些為耶穌作見證的弟兄同是作僕人的。你要敬拜神。因為預言中的靈意，乃是為耶穌作見證。
And I fell at his feet to worship him. And he said unto me, See thou do it not: I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren that have the testimony of Jesus: worship God: for the testimony of Jesus is the spirit of prophecy.

19:11    我觀看，見天開了。有一匹白馬。騎在馬上的，稱為誠信真實。他審判爭戰都按著公義。
And I saw heaven opened, and behold a white horse; and he that sat upon him was called Faithful and True, and in righteousness he doth judge and make war.

19:12    他的眼睛如火焰，他頭上戴著許多冠冕。又有寫著的名字，除了他自己沒有人知道。
His eyes were as a flame of fire, and on his head were many crowns; and he had a name written, that no man knew, but he himself.

19:13    他穿著濺了血的衣服。他的名稱為神之道。
And he was clothed with a vesture dipped in blood: and his name is called The Word of God.

19:14    在天上的眾軍，騎著白馬，穿著細麻衣，又白又潔，跟隨他。
And the armies which were in heaven followed him upon white horses, clothed in fine linen, white and clean.

19:15    有利劍從他口中出來，可以擊殺列國。他必用鐵杖轄管他們。（轄管原文作牧）並要踹全能神烈怒的酒榨。
And out of his mouth goeth a sharp sword, that with it he should smite the nations: and he shall rule them with a rod of iron: and he treadeth the winepress of the fierceness and wrath of Almighty God.

19:16    在他衣服和大腿上，有名寫著說，萬王之王，萬主之主。
And he hath on his vesture and on his thigh a name written, KING OF KINGS, AND LORD OF LORDS.

19:17    我又看見一位天使站在日頭中，向天空所飛的鳥，大聲喊著說，你們聚集來赴神的大筵席。
And I saw an angel standing in the sun; and he cried with a loud voice, saying to all the fowls that fly in the midst of heaven, Come and gather yourselves together unto the supper of the great God;

19:18    可以吃君王與將軍的肉，壯士與馬和騎馬者的肉，並一切自主的為奴的，以及大小人民的肉。
That ye may eat the flesh of kings, and the flesh of captains, and the flesh of mighty men, and the flesh of horses, and of them that sit on them, and the flesh of all men, both free and bond, both small and great.

19:19    我看見那獸，和地上的君王，並他們的眾軍，都聚集，要與騎白馬的並他的軍兵爭戰。
And I saw the beast, and the kings of the earth, and their armies, gathered together to make war against him that sat on the horse, and against his army.

19:20    那獸被擒拿，那在獸面前曾行奇事，迷惑受獸印記，和拜獸像之人的假先知，也與獸同被擒拿。他們兩個就活活的被扔在燒著硫磺的火湖裡。
And the beast was taken, and with him the false prophet that wrought miracles before him, with which he deceived them that had received the mark of the beast, and them that worshipped his image. These both were cast alive into a lake of fire burning with brimstone.

19:21    其餘的被騎白馬者口中出來的劍殺了。飛鳥都吃飽了他們的肉。
And the remnant were slain with the sword of him that sat upon the horse, which sword proceeded out of his mouth: and all the fowls were filled with their flesh.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


20:1    我又看見一位天使從天降下，手裡拿著無底坑的鑰匙，和一條大鏈子。
And I saw an angel come down from heaven, having the key of the bottomless pit and a great chain in his hand.

20:2    他捉住那龍，就是古蛇，又叫魔鬼，也叫撒但，把他捆綁一千年，
And he laid hold on the dragon, that old serpent, which is the Devil, and Satan, and bound him a thousand years,

20:3    扔在無底坑裡，將無底坑關閉，用印封上，使他不得再迷惑列國，等到那一千年完了。以後必須暫時釋放他。
And cast him into the bottomless pit, and shut him up, and set a seal upon him, that he should deceive the nations no more, till the thousand years should be fulfilled: and after that he must be loosed a little season.

20:4    我又看見幾個寶座，也有坐在上面的，並有審判的權柄賜給他們。我又看見那些因為給耶穌作見證，併為神之道被斬者的靈魂，和那沒有拜過獸像，也沒有在額上和手上受過他印記之人的靈魂，他們都復活了，與基督一同作王一千年。
And I saw thrones, and they sat upon them, and judgment was given unto them: and I saw the souls of them that were beheaded for the witness of Jesus, and for the word of God, and which had not worshipped the beast, neither his image, neither had received his mark upon their foreheads, or in their hands; and they lived and reigned with Christ a thousand years.

20:5    這是頭一次的復活。其餘的死人還沒有復活，直等那一千年完了。
But the rest of the dead lived not again until the thousand years were finished. This is the first resurrection.

20:6    在頭一次復活有分的，有福了，聖潔了。第二次的死在他們身上沒有權柄。他們必作神和基督的祭司，並要與基督一同作王一千年。
Blessed and holy is he that hath part in the first resurrection: on such the second death hath no power, but they shall be priests of God and of Christ, and shall reign with him a thousand years.

20:7    那一千年完了，撒但必從監牢裡被釋放，
And when the thousand years are expired, Satan shall be loosed out of his prison,

20:8    出來要迷惑地上四方的列國，（方原文作角）就是歌革和瑪各，叫他們聚集爭戰。他們的人數多如海沙。
And shall go out to deceive the nations which are in the four quarters of the earth, Gog and Magog, to gather them together to battle: the number of whom is as the sand of the sea.

20:9    他們上來遍滿了全地，圍住聖徒的營，與蒙愛的城。就有火從天上降下，燒滅了他們。
And they went up on the breadth of the earth, and compassed the camp of the saints about, and the beloved city: and fire came down from God out of heaven, and devoured them.

20:10    那迷惑他們的魔鬼，被扔在硫磺的火湖裡，就是獸和假先知所在的地方。他們必晝夜受痛苦，直到永永遠遠。
And the devil that deceived them was cast into the lake of fire and brimstone, where the beast and the false prophet are, and shall be tormented day and night for ever and ever.

20:11    我又看見一個白色的大寶座，與坐在上面的。從他面前天地都逃避，再也無可見之處了。
And I saw a great white throne, and him that sat on it, from whose face the earth and the heaven fled away; and there was found no place for them.

20:12    我又看見死了的人，無論大小，都站在寶座前。案卷展開了。並且另有一卷展開，就是生命冊。死了的人都憑著這些案卷所記載的，照他們所行的受審判。
And I saw the dead, small and great, stand before God; and the books were opened: and another book was opened, which is the book of life: and the dead were judged out of those things which were written in the books, according to their works.

20:13    於是海交出其中的死人。死亡和陰間也交出其中的死人。他們都照各人所行的受審判。
And the sea gave up the dead which were in it; and death and hell delivered up the dead which were in them: and they were judged every man according to their works.

20:14    死亡和陰間也被扔在火湖裡。這火湖就是第二次的死。
And death and hell were cast into the lake of fire. This is the second death.

20:15    若有人名字沒有記在生命冊上，他就被扔在火湖裡。
And whosoever was not found written in the book of life was cast into the lake of fire.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　　


21:1    我又看見一個新天新地。因為先前的天地已經過去了。海也不再有了。
And I saw a new heaven and a new earth: for the first heaven and the first earth were passed away; and there was no more sea.

21:2    我又看見聖城新耶路撒冷由神那裡從天而降，豫備好了，就如新婦壯飾整齊，等候丈夫。
And I John saw the holy city, new Jerusalem, coming down from God out of heaven, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband.

21:3    我聽見有大聲音從寶座出來說，看哪，神的帳幕在人間。他要與人同住，他們要作他的子民，神要親自與他們同在，作他們的神。
And I heard a great voice out of heaven saying, Behold, the tabernacle of God is with men, and he will dwell with them, and they shall be his people, and God himself shall be with them, and be their God.

21:4    神要擦去他們一切的眼淚。不再有死亡，也不再有悲哀，哭號，疼痛，因為以前的事都過去了。
And God shall wipe away all tears from their eyes; and there shall be no more death, neither sorrow, nor crying, neither shall there be any more pain: for the former things are passed away.

21:5    坐寶座的說，看哪，我將一切都更新了。又說，你要寫上。因這些話是可信的，是真實的。
And he that sat upon the throne said, Behold, I make all things new. And he said unto me, Write: for these words are true and faithful.

21:6    他又對我說，都成了。我是阿拉法，我是俄梅戛，我是初，我是終。我要將生命泉的水白白賜給那口渴的人喝。
And he said unto me, It is done. I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end. I will give unto him that is athirst of the fountain of the water of life freely.

21:7    得勝的，必承受這些為業。我要作他的神，他要作我的兒子。
He that overcometh shall inherit all things; and I will be his God, and he shall be my son.

21:8    惟有膽怯的，不信的，可憎的，殺人的，淫亂的，行邪術的，拜偶像的，和一切說謊話的，他們的分就在燒著硫磺的火湖裡。這是第二次的死。
But the fearful, and unbelieving, and the abominable, and murderers, and whoremongers, and sorcerers, and idolaters, and all liars, shall have their part in the lake which burneth with fire and brimstone: which is the second death.

21:9    拿著七個金碗，盛滿末後七災的七位天使中，有一位來對我說，你到這裡來，我要將新婦，就是羔羊的妻，指給你看。
And there came unto me one of the seven angels which had the seven vials full of the seven last plagues, and talked with me, saying, Come hither, I will shew thee the bride, the Lamb's wife.

21:10    我被聖靈感動，天使就帶我到一座高大的山，將那由神那裡從天而降的聖城耶路撒冷指示我。
And he carried me away in the spirit to a great and high mountain, and shewed me that great city, the holy Jerusalem, descending out of heaven from God,

21:11    城中有神的榮耀。城的光輝如同極貴的寶石，好像碧玉，明如水晶。
Having the glory of God: and her light was like unto a stone most precious, even like a jasper stone, clear as crystal;

21:12    有高大的牆。有十二個門，門上有十二位天使。門上又寫著以色列十二個支派的名字。
And had a wall great and high, and had twelve gates, and at the gates twelve angels, and names written thereon, which are the names of the twelve tribes of the children of Israel:

21:13    東邊有三門。北邊有三門。南邊有三門。西邊有三門。
On the east three gates; on the north three gates; on the south three gates; and on the west three gates.

21:14    城牆有十二根基，根基上有羔羊十二使徒的名字。
And the wall of the city had twelve foundations, and in them the names of the twelve apostles of the Lamb.

21:15    對我說話的拿著金葦子當尺，要量那城，和城門城牆。
And he that talked with me had a golden reed to measure the city, and the gates thereof, and the wall thereof.

21:16    城的四方的，長寬一樣。天使用葦子量那城，共有四千裡。長寬高都是一樣。
And the city lieth foursquare, and the length is as large as the breadth: and he measured the city with the reed, twelve thousand furlongs. The length and the breadth and the height of it are equal.

21:17    又量了城牆，按著人的尺寸，就是天使的尺寸，共有一百四十四肘。
And he measured the wall thereof, an hundred and forty and four cubits, according to the measure of a man, that is, of the angel.

21:18    牆是碧玉造的。城是精金的，如同明淨的玻璃。
And the building of the wall of it was of jasper: and the city was pure gold, like unto clear glass.

21:19    城牆的根基是用各樣寶石修飾的。第一根基是碧玉。第二是藍寶石。第三是綠瑪瑙。第四是綠寶石。
And the foundations of the wall of the city were garnished with all manner of precious stones. The first foundation was jasper; the second, sapphire; the third, a chalcedony; the fourth, an emerald;

21:20    第五是紅瑪瑙。第六是紅寶石。第七是黃璧璽。第八是水蒼玉。第九是紅璧璽。第十是翡翠。第十一是紫瑪瑙。第十二是紫晶。
The fifth, sardonyx; the sixth, sardius; the seventh, chrysolyte; the eighth, beryl; the ninth, a topaz; the tenth, a chrysoprasus; the eleventh, a jacinth; the twelfth, an amethyst.

21:21    十二個門是十二顆珍珠。每門是一顆珍珠。城內的街道是精金，好像明透的玻璃。
And the twelve gates were twelve pearls: every several gate was of one pearl: and the street of the city was pure gold, as it were transparent glass.

21:22    我未見城內有殿，因主神全能者，和羔羊，為城的殿。
And I saw no temple therein: for the Lord God Almighty and the Lamb are the temple of it.

21:23    那城內又不用日月光照。因有神的榮耀光照。又有羔羊為城的燈。
And the city had no need of the sun, neither of the moon, to shine in it: for the glory of God did lighten it, and the Lamb is the light thereof.

21:24    列國要在城的光裡行走。地上的君王必將自己的榮耀歸與那城。
And the nations of them which are saved shall walk in the light of it: and the kings of the earth do bring their glory and honour into it.

21:25    城門白晝總不關閉。在那裡原沒有黑夜。
And the gates of it shall not be shut at all by day: for there shall be no night there.

21:26    人必將列國的榮耀尊貴歸與那城。
And they shall bring the glory and honour of the nations into it.

21:27    凡不潔淨的，並那行可憎與虛謊之事的，總不得進那城。只有名字寫在羔羊生命冊上的才得進去。
And there shall in no wise enter into it any thing that defileth, neither whatsoever worketh abomination, or maketh a lie: but they which are written in the Lamb's book of life.



新約 -- 啟示錄(Revelation) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


22:1    天使又指示我在城內街道當中一道生命水的河，明亮如水晶，從神和羔羊的寶座流出來。
And he shewed me a pure river of water of life, clear as crystal, proceeding out of the throne of God and of the Lamb.

22:2    在河這邊與那邊有生命樹，結十二樣果子，（樣或作回）每月都結果子。樹上的葉子乃為醫治萬民。
In the midst of the street of it, and on either side of the river, was there the tree of life, which bare twelve manner of fruits, and yielded her fruit every month: and the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations.

22:3    以後再沒有咒詛。在城裡有神和羔羊的寶座。他的僕人都要事奉他。
And there shall be no more curse: but the throne of God and of the Lamb shall be in it; and his servants shall serve him:

22:4    也要見他的面。他的名字必寫在他們的額上。
And they shall see his face; and his name shall be in their foreheads.

22:5    不再有黑夜。他們也不用燈光日光。因為主神要光照他們。他們要作王，直到永永遠遠。
And there shall be no night there; and they need no candle, neither light of the sun; for the Lord God giveth them light: and they shall reign for ever and ever.

22:6    天使又對我說，這些話是真實可信的。主就是眾先知被感之靈的神，差遣他的使者，將那必要快成的事指示他僕人。
And he said unto me, These sayings are faithful and true: and the Lord God of the holy prophets sent his angel to shew unto his servants the things which must shortly be done.

22:7    看哪，我必快來。凡遵守這書上預言的有福了。
Behold, I come quickly: blessed is he that keepeth the sayings of the prophecy of this book.

22:8    這些事是我約翰所聽見所看見的。我既聽見看見了。就在指示我的天使腳前俯伏要拜他。
And I John saw these things, and heard them. And when I had heard and seen, I fell down to worship before the feet of the angel which shewed me these things.

22:9    他對我說，千萬不可。我與你，和你的弟兄眾先知，並那些守這書上言語的人，同是作僕人的。你要敬拜神。
Then saith he unto me, See thou do it not: for I am thy fellowservant, and of thy brethren the prophets, and of them which keep the sayings of this book: worship God.

22:10    他又對我說，不可封了這書上的預言。因為日期近了。
And he saith unto me, Seal not the sayings of the prophecy of this book: for the time is at hand.

22:11    不義的，叫他仍舊不義。汙穢的，叫他仍舊汙穢。為義的，叫他仍舊為義。聖潔的，叫他仍舊聖潔。
He that is unjust, let him be unjust still: and he which is filthy, let him be filthy still: and he that is righteous, let him be righteous still: and he that is holy, let him be holy still.

22:12    看哪，我必快來。賞罰在我，要照各人所行的報應他。
And, behold, I come quickly; and my reward is with me, to give every man according as his work shall be.

22:13    我是阿拉法，我是俄梅戛，我是首先的，我是末後的，我是初，我是終。
I am Alpha and Omega, the beginning and the end, the first and the last.

22:14    那些洗淨自己衣服的有福了，可得權柄能到生命樹那裡，也能從門進城。
Blessed are they that do his commandments, that they may have right to the tree of life, and may enter in through the gates into the city.

22:15    城外有那些犬類，行邪術的，淫亂的，殺人的，拜偶像的，並一切喜好說謊編造虛謊的。
For without are dogs, and sorcerers, and whoremongers, and murderers, and idolaters, and whosoever loveth and maketh a lie.

22:16    我耶穌差遣我的使者為眾教會將這些事向你們證明。我是大衛的根，又是他的後裔。我是明亮的晨星。
I Jesus have sent mine angel to testify unto you these things in the churches. I am the root and the offspring of David, and the bright and morning star.

22:17    聖靈和新婦都說來。聽見的人也該說來。口渴的人也當來。願意的都可以白白取生命的水喝。
And the Spirit and the bride say, Come. And let him that heareth say, Come. And let him that is athirst come. And whosoever will, let him take the water of life freely.

22:18    我向一切聽見這書上預言的作見證，若有人在這預言上加添什麼，神必將在這書上的災禍加在他身上。
For I testify unto every man that heareth the words of the prophecy of this book, If any man shall add unto these things, God shall add unto him the plagues that are written in this book:

22:19    這書上的預言，若有人刪去什麼，神必從這書上所寫的生命樹，和聖城，刪去他的分。
And if any man shall take away from the words of the book of this prophecy, God shall take away his part out of the book of life, and out of the holy city, and from the things which are written in this book.

22:20    證明這事的說，是了。我必快來。阿們。主耶穌阿，我願你來。
He which testifieth these things saith, Surely I come quickly. Amen. Even so, come, Lord Jesus.

22:21    願主耶穌的恩惠，常與眾聖徒同在。阿們。
The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with you all. Amen.
