舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


1:1    以色列的眾子，各帶家眷和雅各一同來到埃及，他們的名字記在下面。
Now these are the names of the children of Israel, which came into Egypt; every man and his household came with Jacob.

1:2    有流便，西緬，利未，猶大，
Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah,

1:3    以薩迦，西布倫，便雅憫，
Issachar, Zebulun, and Benjamin,

1:4    但，拿弗他利，迦得，亞設。
Dan, and Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

1:5    凡從雅各而生的，共有七十人。約瑟已經在埃及。
And all the souls that came out of the loins of Jacob were seventy souls: for Joseph was in Egypt already.

1:6    約瑟和他的弟兄，並那一代的人都死了。
And Joseph died, and all his brethren, and all that generation.

1:7    以色列人生養眾多，並且繁茂，極其強盛，滿了那地。
And the children of Israel were fruitful, and increased abundantly, and multiplied, and waxed exceeding mighty; and the land was filled with them.

1:8    有不認識約瑟的新王起來，治理埃及，
Now there arose up a new king over Egypt, which knew not Joseph.

1:9    對他的百姓說，看哪，這以色列民比我們還多，又比我們強盛。
And he said unto his people, Behold, the people of the children of Israel are more and mightier than we:

1:10    來吧，我們不如用巧計待他們，恐怕他們多起來，日後若遇什麼爭戰的事，就連合我們的仇敵攻擊我們，離開這地去了。
Come on, let us deal wisely with them; lest they multiply, and it come to pass, that, when there falleth out any war, they join also unto our enemies, and fight against us, and so get them up out of the land.

1:11    於是埃及人派督工的轄制他們，加重擔苦害他們。他們為法老建造兩座積貨城，就是比東和蘭塞。
Therefore they did set over them taskmasters to afflict them with their burdens. And they built for Pharaoh treasure cities, Pithom and Raamses.

1:12    只是越發苦害他們，他們越發多起來，越發蔓延，埃及人就因以色列人愁煩。
But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied and grew. And they were grieved because of the children of Israel.

1:13    埃及人嚴嚴地使以色列人作工，
And the Egyptians made the children of Israel to serve with rigour:

1:14    使他們因作苦工覺得命苦，無論是和泥，是作磚，是作田間各樣的工，在一切的工上都嚴嚴地待他們。
And they made their lives bitter with hard bondage, in morter, and in brick, and in all manner of service in the field: all their service, wherein they made them serve, was with rigour.

1:15    有希伯來的兩個收生婆，一名施弗拉，一名普阿，埃及王對她們說，
And the king of Egypt spake to the Hebrew midwives, of which the name of the one was Shiphrah, and the name of the other Puah:

1:16    你們為希伯來婦人收生，看她們臨盆的時候，若是男孩，就把他殺了，若是女孩，就留她存活。
And he said, When ye do the office of a midwife to the Hebrew women, and see them upon the stools; if it be a son, then ye shall kill him: but if it be a daughter, then she shall live.

1:17    但是收生婆敬畏神，不照埃及王的吩咐行，竟存留男孩的性命。
But the midwives feared God, and did not as the king of Egypt commanded them, but saved the men children alive.

1:18    埃及王召了收生婆來，說，你們為什麼作這事，存留男孩的性命呢。
And the king of Egypt called for the midwives, and said unto them, Why have ye done this thing, and have saved the men children alive?

1:19    收生婆對法老說，因為希伯來婦人與埃及婦人不同，希伯來婦人本是健壯的（原文作活潑的），收生婆還沒有到，她們已經生產了。
And the midwives said unto Pharaoh, Because the Hebrew women are not as the Egyptian women; for they are lively, and are delivered ere the midwives come in unto them.

1:20    神厚待收生婆。以色列人多起來，極其強盛。
Therefore God dealt well with the midwives: and the people multiplied, and waxed very mighty.

1:21    收生婆因為敬畏神，神便叫她們成立家室。
And it came to pass, because the midwives feared God, that he made them houses.

1:22    法老吩咐他的眾民說，以色列人所生的男孩，你們都要丟在河裡，一切的女孩，你們要存留她的性命。
And Pharaoh charged all his people, saying, Every son that is born ye shall cast into the river, and every daughter ye shall save alive.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


2:1    有一個利未家的人娶了一個利未女子為妻。
And there went a man of the house of Levi, and took to wife a daughter of Levi.

2:2    那女人懷孕，生一個兒子，見他俊美，就藏了他三個月，
And the woman conceived, and bare a son: and when she saw him that he was a goodly child, she hid him three months.

2:3    後來不能再藏，就取了一個蒲草箱，抹上石漆和石油，將孩子放在裡頭，把箱子擱在河邊的蘆荻中。
And when she could not longer hide him, she took for him an ark of bulrushes, and daubed it with slime and with pitch, and put the child therein; and she laid it in the flags by the river's brink.

2:4    孩子的姊姊遠遠站著，要知道他究竟怎嗎樣。
And his sister stood afar off, to wit what would be done to him.

2:5    法老的女兒來到河邊洗澡，她的使女們在河邊行走。她看見箱子在蘆荻中，就打發一個婢女拿來。
And the daughter of Pharaoh came down to wash herself at the river; and her maidens walked along by the river's side; and when she saw the ark among the flags, she sent her maid to fetch it.

2:6    她開啟箱子，看見那孩子。孩子哭了，她就可憐他，說，這是希伯來人的一個孩子。
And when she had opened it, she saw the child: and, behold, the babe wept. And she had compassion on him, and said, This is one of the Hebrews' children.

2:7    孩子的姊姊對法老的女兒說，我去在希伯來婦人中叫一個奶媽來，為你奶這孩子，可以不可以。
Then said his sister to Pharaoh's daughter, Shall I go and call to thee a nurse of the Hebrew women, that she may nurse the child for thee?

2:8    法老的女兒說，可以。童女就去叫了孩子的母親來。
And Pharaoh's daughter said to her, Go. And the maid went and called the child's mother.

2:9    法老的女兒對她說，你把這孩子抱去，為我奶他，我必給你工價。婦人就抱了孩子去奶他。
And Pharaoh's daughter said unto her, Take this child away, and nurse it for me, and I will give thee thy wages. And the woman took the child, and nursed it.

2:10    孩子漸長，婦人把他帶到法老的女兒那裡，就作了她的兒子。她給孩子起名叫摩西，意思說，因我把他從水裡拉出來。
And the child grew, and she brought him unto Pharaoh's daughter, and he became her son. And she called his name Moses: and she said, Because I drew him out of the water.

2:11    後來，摩西長大，他出去到他弟兄那裡，看他們的重擔，見一個埃及人打希伯來人的一個弟兄。
And it came to pass in those days, when Moses was grown, that he went out unto his brethren, and looked on their burdens: and he spied an Egyptian smiting an Hebrew, one of his brethren.

2:12    他左右觀看，見沒有人，就把埃及人打死了，藏在沙土裡。
And he looked this way and that way, and when he saw that there was no man, he slew the Egyptian, and hid him in the sand.

2:13    第二天他出去，見有兩個希伯來人爭鬥，就對那欺負人的說，你為什麼打你同族的人呢。
And when he went out the second day, behold, two men of the Hebrews strove together: and he said to him that did the wrong, Wherefore smitest thou thy fellow?

2:14    那人說，誰立你作我們的首領和審判官呢，難道你要殺我，像殺那埃及人嗎。摩西便懼怕，說，這事必是被人知道了。
And he said, Who made thee a prince and a judge over us? intendest thou to kill me, as thou killedst the Egyptian? And Moses feared, and said, Surely this thing is known.

2:15    法老聽見這事，就想殺摩西，但摩西躲避法老，逃往米甸地居住。
Now when Pharaoh heard this thing, he sought to slay Moses. But Moses fled from the face of Pharaoh, and dwelt in the land of Midian: and he sat down by a well.

2:16    一日，他在井旁坐下。米甸的祭司有七個女兒，她們來打水，打滿了槽，要飲父親的群羊。
Now the priest of Midian had seven daughters: and they came and drew water, and filled the troughs to water their father's flock.

2:17    有牧羊的人來，把她們趕走了，摩西卻起來幫助她們，又飲了她們的群羊。
And the shepherds came and drove them away: but Moses stood up and helped them, and watered their flock.

2:18    她們來到父親流珥那裡，他說，今日你們為何來得這嗎快呢。
And when they came to Reuel their father, he said, How is it that ye are come so soon to day?

2:19    她們說，有一個埃及人救我們脫離牧羊人的手，並且為我們打水飲了群羊。
And they said, An Egyptian delivered us out of the hand of the shepherds, and also drew water enough for us, and watered the flock.

2:20    他對女兒們說，那個人在哪裡，你們為什麼撇下他呢。你們去請他來吃飯。
And he said unto his daughters, And where is he? why is it that ye have left the man? call him, that he may eat bread.

2:21    摩西甘心和那人同住，那人把他的女兒西坡拉給摩西為妻。
And Moses was content to dwell with the man: and he gave Moses Zipporah his daughter.

2:22    西坡拉生了一個兒子，摩西給他起名叫革舜，意思說，因我在外邦作了寄居的。
And she bare him a son, and he called his name Gershom: for he said, I have been a stranger in a strange land.

2:23    過了多年，埃及王死了。以色列人因作苦工，就嘆息哀求，他們的哀聲達於神。
And it came to pass in process of time, that the king of Egypt died: and the children of Israel sighed by reason of the bondage, and they cried, and their cry came up unto God by reason of the bondage.

2:24    神聽見他們的哀聲，就記念他與亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各所立的約。
And God heard their groaning, and God remembered his covenant with Abraham, with Isaac, and with Jacob.

2:25    神看顧以色列人，也知道他們的苦情。
And God looked upon the children of Israel, and God had respect unto them.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


3:1    摩西牧養他岳父米甸祭司葉忒羅的羊群，一日領羊群往野外去，到了神的山，就是何烈山。
Now Moses kept the flock of Jethro his father in law, the priest of Midian: and he led the flock to the backside of the desert, and came to the mountain of God, even to Horeb.

3:2    耶和華的使者從荊棘裡火焰中向摩西顯現。摩西觀看，不料，荊棘被火燒著，卻沒有燒燬。
And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him in a flame of fire out of the midst of a bush: and he looked, and, behold, the bush burned with fire, and the bush was not consumed.

3:3    摩西說，我要過去看這大異象，這荊棘為何沒有燒壞呢。
And Moses said, I will now turn aside, and see this great sight, why the bush is not burnt.

3:4    耶和華神見他過去要看，就從荊棘裡呼叫說，摩西，摩西。他說，我在這裡。
And when the LORD saw that he turned aside to see, God called unto him out of the midst of the bush, and said, Moses, Moses. And he said, Here am I.

3:5    神說，不要近前來。當把你腳上的鞋脫下來，因為你所站之地是聖地。
And he said, Draw not nigh hither: put off thy shoes from off thy feet, for the place whereon thou standest is holy ground.

3:6    又說，我是你父親的神，是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神。摩西蒙上臉，因為怕看神。
Moreover he said, I am the God of thy father, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. And Moses hid his face; for he was afraid to look upon God.

3:7    耶和華說，我的百姓在埃及所受的困苦，我實在看見了，他們因受督工的轄制所發的哀聲，我也聽見了。我原知道他們的痛苦，
And the LORD said, I have surely seen the affliction of my people which are in Egypt, and have heard their cry by reason of their taskmasters; for I know their sorrows;

3:8    我下來是要救他們脫離埃及人的手，領他們出了那地，，到美好，寬闊，流奶與蜜之地，就是到迦南人，赫人，亞摩利人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人之地。
And I am come down to deliver them out of the hand of the Egyptians, and to bring them up out of that land unto a good land and a large, unto a land flowing with milk and honey; unto the place of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites.

3:9    現在以色列人的哀聲達到我耳中，我也看見埃及人怎樣欺壓他們。
Now therefore, behold, the cry of the children of Israel is come unto me: and I have also seen the oppression wherewith the Egyptians oppress them.

3:10    故此，我要打發你去見法老，使你可以將我的百姓以色列人從埃及領出來。
Come now therefore, and I will send thee unto Pharaoh, that thou mayest bring forth my people the children of Israel out of Egypt.

3:11    摩西對神說，我是什麼人，竟能去見法老，將以色列人從埃及領出來呢。
And Moses said unto God, Who am I, that I should go unto Pharaoh, and that I should bring forth the children of Israel out of Egypt?

3:12    神說，我必與你同在。你將百姓從埃及領出來之後，你們必在這山上事奉我，這就是我打發你去的證據。
And he said, Certainly I will be with thee; and this shall be a token unto thee, that I have sent thee: When thou hast brought forth the people out of Egypt, ye shall serve God upon this mountain.

3:13    摩西對神說，我到以色列人那裡，對他們說，你們祖宗的神打發我到你們這裡來。他們若問我說，他叫什麼名字，我要對他們說什麼呢。
And Moses said unto God, Behold, when I come unto the children of Israel, and shall say unto them, The God of your fathers hath sent me unto you; and they shall say to me, What is his name? what shall I say unto them?

3:14    神對摩西說，我是自有永有的。又說，你要對以色列人這樣說，那自有的打發我到你們這裡來。
And God said unto Moses, I AM THAT I AM: and he said, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, I AM hath sent me unto you.

3:15    神又對摩西說，你要對以色列人這樣說，耶和華你們祖宗的神，就是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，打發我到你們這裡來。耶和華是我的名，直到永遠，這也是我的紀念，直到萬代。
And God said moreover unto Moses, Thus shalt thou say unto the children of Israel, The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath sent me unto you: this is my name for ever, and this is my memorial unto all generations.

3:16    你去招聚以色列的長老，對他們說，耶和華你們祖宗的神，就是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，向我顯現，說，我實在眷顧了你們，我也看見埃及人怎樣待你們。
Go, and gather the elders of Israel together, and say unto them, The LORD God of your fathers, the God of Abraham, of Isaac, and of Jacob, appeared unto me, saying, I have surely visited you, and seen that which is done to you in Egypt:

3:17    我也說，要將你們從埃及的困苦中領出來，往迦南人，赫人，亞摩利人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人的地去，就是到流奶與蜜之地。
And I have said, I will bring you up out of the affliction of Egypt unto the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, unto a land flowing with milk and honey.

3:18    他們必聽你的話。你和以色列的長老要去見埃及王，對他說，耶和華希伯來人的神遇見了我們，現在求你容我們往曠野去，走三天的路程，為要祭祀耶和華我們的神。
And they shall hearken to thy voice: and thou shalt come, thou and the elders of Israel, unto the king of Egypt, and ye shall say unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath met with us: and now let us go, we beseech thee, three days' journey into the wilderness, that we may sacrifice to the LORD our God.

3:19    我知道雖用大能的手，埃及王也不容你們去。
And I am sure that the king of Egypt will not let you go, no, not by a mighty hand.

3:20    我必伸手在埃及中間施行我一切的奇事，攻擊那地，然後他才容你喬去。
And I will stretch out my hand, and smite Egypt with all my wonders which I will do in the midst thereof: and after that he will let you go.

3:21    我必叫你們在埃及人眼前蒙恩，你們去的時候就不至於空手而去。
And I will give this people favour in the sight of the Egyptians: and it shall come to pass, that, when ye go, ye shall not go empty:

3:22    但各婦女必向她的鄰舍，並居住在她家裡的女人，要金器銀器和衣裳，好給你們的兒女穿戴。這樣你們就把埃及人的財物奪去了。
But every woman shall borrow of her neighbour, and of her that sojourneth in her house, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment: and ye shall put them upon your sons, and upon your daughters; and ye shall spoil the Egyptians.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


4:1    摩西回答說，他們必不信我，也不聽我的話，必說，耶和華並沒有向你顯現。
And Moses answered and said, But, behold, they will not believe me, nor hearken unto my voice: for they will say, The LORD hath not appeared unto thee.

4:2    耶和華對摩西說，你手裡是什麼。他說，是杖。
And the LORD said unto him, What is that in thine hand? And he said, A rod.

4:3    耶和華說，丟在地上。他一丟下去，就變作蛇，摩西便跑開。
And he said, Cast it on the ground. And he cast it on the ground, and it became a serpent; and Moses fled from before it.

4:4    耶和華對摩西說，伸出手來，拿住它的尾巴，它必在你手中仍變為杖，
And the LORD said unto Moses, Put forth thine hand, and take it by the tail. And he put forth his hand, and caught it, and it became a rod in his hand:

4:5    如此好叫他們信耶和華他們祖宗的神，就是亞伯拉罕的神，以撒的神，雅各的神，是向你顯現了。
That they may believe that the LORD God of their fathers, the God of Abraham, the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob, hath appeared unto thee.

4:6    耶和華又對他說，把手放在懷裡。他就把手放在懷裡，及至抽出來，不料，手長了大麻瘋，有雪那樣白。
And the LORD said furthermore unto him, Put now thine hand into thy bosom. And he put his hand into his bosom: and when he took it out, behold, his hand was leprous as snow.

4:7    耶和華說，再把手放在懷裡。他就再把手放在懷裡，及至從懷裡抽出來，不料，手已經復原，與周身的肉一樣，
And he said, Put thine hand into thy bosom again. And he put his hand into his bosom again; and plucked it out of his bosom, and, behold, it was turned again as his other flesh.

4:8    又說，倘或他們不聽你的話，也不信頭一個神蹟，他們必信第二個神蹟。
And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe thee, neither hearken to the voice of the first sign, that they will believe the voice of the latter sign.

4:9    這兩個神蹟若都不信，也不聽你的話，你就從河裡取些水，倒在旱地上，你從河裡取的水必在旱地上變作血。
And it shall come to pass, if they will not believe also these two signs, neither hearken unto thy voice, that thou shalt take of the water of the river, and pour it upon the dry land: and the water which thou takest out of the river shall become blood upon the dry land.

4:10    摩西對耶和華說，主阿，我素日不是能言的人，就是從你對僕人說話以後，也是這樣。我本是拙口笨舌的。
And Moses said unto the LORD, O my LORD, I am not eloquent, neither heretofore, nor since thou hast spoken unto thy servant: but I am slow of speech, and of a slow tongue.

4:11    耶和華對他說，誰造人的口呢，誰使人口啞，耳聾，目明，眼瞎呢，豈不是我耶和華嗎。
And the LORD said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or who maketh the dumb, or deaf, or the seeing, or the blind? have not I the LORD?

4:12    現在去吧，我必賜你口才，指教你所當說的話。
Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what thou shalt say.

4:13    摩西說，主阿，你願意打發誰，就打發誰去吧。
And he said, O my LORD, send, I pray thee, by the hand of him whom thou wilt send.

4:14    耶和華向摩西發怒說，不是有你的哥哥利未人亞倫嗎，我知道他是能言的，現在他出來迎接你，他一見你，心裡就歡喜。
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Moses, and he said, Is not Aaron the Levite thy brother? I know that he can speak well. And also, behold, he cometh forth to meet thee: and when he seeth thee, he will be glad in his heart.

4:15    你要將當說的話傳給他，我也要賜你和他口才，又要指教你們所當行的事。
And thou shalt speak unto him, and put words in his mouth: and I will be with thy mouth, and with his mouth, and will teach you what ye shall do.

4:16    他要替你對百姓說話，你要以他當作口，他要以你當作神。
And he shall be thy spokesman unto the people: and he shall be, even he shall be to thee instead of a mouth, and thou shalt be to him instead of God.



4:17    你手裡要拿這杖，好行神蹟。
And thou shalt take this rod in thine hand, wherewith thou shalt do signs.

4:18    於是，摩西回到他岳父葉忒羅那裡，對他說，求你容我回去見我在埃及的弟兄，看他們還在不在。葉忒羅對摩西說，你可以平平安安地去吧。
And Moses went and returned to Jethro his father in law, and said unto him, Let me go, I pray thee, and return unto my brethren which are in Egypt, and see whether they be yet alive. And Jethro said to Moses, Go in peace.

4:19    耶和華在米甸對摩西說，你要回埃及去，因為尋索你命的人都死了。
And the LORD said unto Moses in Midian, Go, return into Egypt: for all the men are dead which sought thy life.

4:20    摩西就帶著妻子和兩個兒子，叫他們騎上驢，回埃及地去。摩西手裡拿著神的杖。
And Moses took his wife and his sons, and set them upon an ass, and he returned to the land of Egypt: and Moses took the rod of God in his hand.

4:21    耶和華對摩西說，你回到埃及的時候，要留意將我指示你的一切奇事行在法老面前。但我要使（或作任憑下同）他的心剛硬，他必不容百姓去。
And the LORD said unto Moses, When thou goest to return into Egypt, see that thou do all those wonders before Pharaoh, which I have put in thine hand: but I will harden his heart, that he shall not let the people go.

4:22    你要對法老說，耶和華這樣說，以色列是我的兒子，我的長子。
And thou shalt say unto Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD, Israel is my son, even my firstborn:

4:23    我對你說過，容我的兒子去，好事奉我。你還是不肯容他去。看哪，我要殺你的長子。
And I say unto thee, Let my son go, that he may serve me: and if thou refuse to let him go, behold, I will slay thy son, even thy firstborn.

4:24    摩西在路上住宿的地方，耶和華遇見他，想要殺他。
And it came to pass by the way in the inn, that the LORD met him, and sought to kill him.

4:25    西坡拉就拿一塊火石，割下他兒子的陽皮，丟在摩西腳前，說，你真是我的血郎了。
Then Zipporah took a sharp stone, and cut off the foreskin of her son, and cast it at his feet, and said, Surely a bloody husband art thou to me.

4:26    這樣，耶和華才放了他。西坡拉說，你因割禮就是血郎了。
So he let him go: then she said, A bloody husband thou art, because of the circumcision.

4:27    耶和華對亞倫說，你往曠野去迎接摩西。他就去，在神的山遇見摩西，和他親嘴。
And the LORD said to Aaron, Go into the wilderness to meet Moses. And he went, and met him in the mount of God, and kissed him.

4:28    摩西將耶和華打發他所說的言語和囑咐他所行的神蹟都告訴了亞倫。
And Moses told Aaron all the words of the LORD who had sent him, and all the signs which he had commanded him.

4:29    摩西，亞倫就去招聚以色列的眾長老。
And Moses and Aaron went and gathered together all the elders of the children of Israel:

4:30    亞倫將耶和華對摩西所說的一切話述說了一遍，又在百姓眼前行了那些神蹟，
And Aaron spake all the words which the LORD had spoken unto Moses, and did the signs in the sight of the people.

4:31    百姓就信了。以色列人聽見耶和華眷顧他們，鑑察他們的困苦，就低頭下拜。
And the people believed: and when they heard that the LORD had visited the children of Israel, and that he had looked upon their affliction, then they bowed their heads and worshipped.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


5:1    後來摩西，亞倫去對法老說，耶和華以色列的神這樣說，容我的百姓去，在曠野向我守節。
And afterward Moses and Aaron went in, and told Pharaoh, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Let my people go, that they may hold a feast unto me in the wilderness.

5:2    法老說，耶和華是誰，使我聽他的話，容以色列人去呢。我不認識耶和華，也不容以色列人去。
And Pharaoh said, Who is the LORD, that I should obey his voice to let Israel go? I know not the LORD, neither will I let Israel go.

5:3    他們說，希伯來人的神遇見了我們。求你容我們往曠野去，走三天的路程，祭祀耶和華我們的神，免得他用瘟疫，刀兵攻擊我們。
And they said, The God of the Hebrews hath met with us: let us go, we pray thee, three days' journey into the desert, and sacrifice unto the LORD our God; lest he fall upon us with pestilence, or with the sword.

5:4    埃及王對他們說，摩西，亞倫，你們為什麼叫百姓曠工呢。你們去擔你們的擔子吧。
And the king of Egypt said unto them, Wherefore do ye, Moses and Aaron, let the people from their works? get you unto your burdens.

5:5    又說，看哪，這地的以色列人如今眾多，你們竟叫他們歇下擔子。
And Pharaoh said, Behold, the people of the land now are many, and ye make them rest from their burdens.

5:6    當天，法老吩咐督工的和官長說，
And Pharaoh commanded the same day the taskmasters of the people, and their officers, saying,

5:7    你們不可照常把草給百姓作磚，叫他們自己去撿草。
Ye shall no more give the people straw to make brick, as heretofore: let them go and gather straw for themselves.

5:8    他們素常作磚的數目，你們仍舊向他們要，一點不可減少，因為他們是懶惰的，所以呼求說，容我們去祭祀我們的神。
And the tale of the bricks, which they did make heretofore, ye shall lay upon them; ye shall not diminish ought thereof: for they be idle; therefore they cry, saying, Let us go and sacrifice to our God.

5:9    你們要把更重的工夫加在這些人身上，叫他們勞碌，不聽虛謊的言語。
Let there more work be laid upon the men, that they may labour therein; and let them not regard vain words.

5:10    督工的和官長出來對百姓說，法老這樣說，我不給你們草。
And the taskmasters of the people went out, and their officers, and they spake to the people, saying, Thus saith Pharaoh, I will not give you straw.

5:11    你們自己在哪裡能找草，就往那裡去找吧，但你們的工一點不可減少。
Go ye, get you straw where ye can find it: yet not ought of your work shall be diminished.

5:12    於是百姓散在埃及遍地，撿碎秸當作草。
So the people were scattered abroad throughout all the land of Egypt to gather stubble instead of straw.

5:13    督工的催著說，你們一天當完一天的工，與先前有草一樣。
And the taskmasters hasted them, saying, Fulfil your works, your daily tasks, as when there was straw.

5:14    法老督工的，責打他所派以色列人的官長，說，你們昨天今天為什麼沒有照向來的數目作磚，完你們的工作呢。
And the officers of the children of Israel, which Pharaoh's taskmasters had set over them, were beaten, and demanded, Wherefore have ye not fulfilled your task in making brick both yesterday and to day, as heretofore?

5:15    以色列人的官長就來哀求法老說，為什麼這樣待你的僕人。
Then the officers of the children of Israel came and cried unto Pharaoh, saying, Wherefore dealest thou thus with thy servants?

5:16    督工的不把草給僕人，並且對我們說，作磚吧。看哪，你僕人捱了打，其實是你百姓的錯。
There is no straw given unto thy servants, and they say to us, Make brick: and, behold, thy servants are beaten; but the fault is in thine own people.

5:17    但法老說，你們是懶惰的，你們是懶惰的，所以說，容我們去祭祀耶和華。
But he said, Ye are idle, ye are idle: therefore ye say, Let us go and do sacrifice to the LORD.

5:18    現在你們去作工吧，草是不給你們的，磚卻要如數交納。
Go therefore now, and work; for there shall no straw be given you, yet shall ye deliver the tale of bricks.

5:19    以色列人的官長聽說，你們每天作磚的工作一點不可減少，就知道是遭遇禍患了。
And the officers of the children of Israel did see that they were in evil case, after it was said, Ye shall not minish ought from your bricks of your daily task.

5:20    他們離了法老出來，正遇見摩西，亞倫站在對面，
And they met Moses and Aaron, who stood in the way, as they came forth from Pharaoh:

5:21    就向他們說，願耶和華鑑察你們，施行判斷，因你們使我們在法老和他臣僕面前有了臭名，把刀遞在他們手中殺我們。
And they said unto them, The LORD look upon you, and judge; because ye have made our savour to be abhorred in the eyes of Pharaoh, and in the eyes of his servants, to put a sword in their hand to slay us.

5:22    摩西回到耶和華那裡，說，主阿，你為什麼苦待這百姓呢，為什麼打發我去呢。
And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, LORD, wherefore hast thou so evil entreated this people? why is it that thou hast sent me?

5:23    自從我去見法老，奉你的名說話，他就苦待這百姓，你一點也沒有拯救他們。
For since I came to Pharaoh to speak in thy name, he hath done evil to this people; neither hast thou delivered thy people at all.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


6:1    耶和華對摩西說，現在你必看見我向法老所行的事，使他因我大能的手容以色列人去，且把他們趕出他的地。
Then the LORD said unto Moses, Now shalt thou see what I will do to Pharaoh: for with a strong hand shall he let them go, and with a strong hand shall he drive them out of his land.

6:2    神曉諭摩西說，我是耶和華。
And God spake unto Moses, and said unto him, I am the LORD:

6:3    我從前向亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各顯現為全能的神，至於我名耶和華，他們未曾知道。
And I appeared unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, by the name of God Almighty, but by my name JEHOVAH was I not known to them.

6:4    我與他們堅定所立的約，要把他們寄居的迦南地賜給他們。
And I have also established my covenant with them, to give them the land of Canaan, the land of their pilgrimage, wherein they were strangers.

6:5    我也聽見以色列人被埃及人苦待的哀聲，我也記念我的約。
And I have also heard the groaning of the children of Israel, whom the Egyptians keep in bondage; and I have remembered my covenant.

6:6    所以你要對以色列人說，我是耶和華，我要用伸出來的膀臂重重地刑罰埃及人，救贖你們脫離他們的重擔，不作他們的苦工。
Wherefore say unto the children of Israel, I am the LORD, and I will bring you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians, and I will rid you out of their bondage, and I will redeem you with a stretched out arm, and with great judgments:

6:7    我要以你們為我的百姓，我也要作你們的神。你們要知道我是耶和華你們的神，是救你們脫離埃及人之重擔的。
And I will take you to me for a people, and I will be to you a God: and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God, which bringeth you out from under the burdens of the Egyptians.

6:8    我起誓應許給亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各的那地，我要把你們領進去，將那地賜給你們為業。我是耶和華。
And I will bring you in unto the land, concerning the which I did swear to give it to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob; and I will give it you for an heritage: I am the LORD.

6:9    摩西將這話告訴以色列人，只是他們因苦工愁煩，不肯聽他的話。
And Moses spake so unto the children of Israel: but they hearkened not unto Moses for anguish of spirit, and for cruel bondage.

6:10    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:11    你進去對埃及王法老說，要容以色列人出他的地。
Go in, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, that he let the children of Israel go out of his land.

6:12    摩西在耶和華面前說，以色列人尚且不聽我的話，法老怎肯聽我這拙口笨舌的人呢。
And Moses spake before the LORD, saying, Behold, the children of Israel have not hearkened unto me; how then shall Pharaoh hear me, who am of uncircumcised lips?

6:13    耶和華吩咐摩西，亞倫往以色列人和埃及王法老那裡去，把以色列人從埃及地領出來。
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, and gave them a charge unto the children of Israel, and unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt.

6:14    以色列人家長的名字記在下面。以色列長子流便的兒子是哈諾，法路，希斯崙，迦米，這是流便的各家。
These be the heads of their fathers' houses: The sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel; Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi: these be the families of Reuben.

6:15    西緬的兒子是耶母利，雅憫，阿轄，雅斤，瑣轄，和迦南女子的兒子掃羅，這是西緬的各家。
And the sons of Simeon; Jemuel, and Jamin, and Ohad, and Jachin, and Zohar, and Shaul the son of a Canaanitish woman: these are the families of Simeon.

6:16    利未眾子的名字按著他們的後代記在下面，就是革順，哥轄，米拉利。利未一生的歲數是一百三十七歲。
And these are the names of the sons of Levi according to their generations; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari: and the years of the life of Levi were an hundred thirty and seven years.

6:17    革順的兒子按著家室是立尼，示每。
The sons of Gershon; Libni, and Shimi, according to their families.

6:18    哥轄的兒子是暗蘭，以斯哈，希伯倫，烏薛。哥轄一生的歲數是一百三十三歲。
And the sons of Kohath; Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel: and the years of the life of Kohath were an hundred thirty and three years.

6:19    米拉利的兒子是抹利和母示，這是利未的家，都按著他們的後代。
And the sons of Merari; Mahali and Mushi: these are the families of Levi according to their generations.

6:20    暗蘭娶了他父親的妹妹約基別為妻，她給他生了亞倫和摩西。暗蘭一生的歲數是一百三十七歲。
And Amram took him Jochebed his father's sister to wife; and she bare him Aaron and Moses: and the years of the life of Amram were an hundred and thirty and seven years.

6:21    以斯哈的兒子是可拉，尼斐，細基利。
And the sons of Izhar; Korah, and Nepheg, and Zichri.

6:22    烏薛的兒子是米沙利，以利撒反，西提利。
And the sons of Uzziel; Mishael, and Elzaphan, and Zithri.

6:23    亞倫娶了亞米拿達的女兒，拿順的妹妹，以利沙巴為妻，她給他生了拿答，亞比戶，以利亞撒，以他瑪。
And Aaron took him Elisheba, daughter of Amminadab, sister of Naashon, to wife; and she bare him Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

6:24    可拉的兒子是亞惜，以利加拿，亞比亞撒，這是可拉的各家。
And the sons of Korah; Assir, and Elkanah, and Abiasaph: these are the families of the Korhites.

6:25    亞倫的兒子以利亞撒娶了普鐵的一個女兒為妻，她給他生了非尼哈。這是利未人的家長，都按著他們的家。
And Eleazar Aaron's son took him one of the daughters of Putiel to wife; and she bare him Phinehas: these are the heads of the fathers of the Levites according to their families.

6:26    耶和華說，將以色列人按著他們的軍隊從埃及地領出來。這是對那亞倫，摩西說的。
These are that Aaron and Moses, to whom the LORD said, Bring out the children of Israel from the land of Egypt according to their armies.

6:27    對埃及王法老說要將以色列人從埃及領出來的，就是這摩西，亞倫。
These are they which spake to Pharaoh king of Egypt, to bring out the children of Israel from Egypt: these are that Moses and Aaron.

6:28    當耶和華在埃及地對摩西說話的日子，
And it came to pass on the day when the LORD spake unto Moses in the land of Egypt,

6:29    他向摩西說，我是耶和華，我對你說的一切話，你都要告訴埃及王法老。
That the LORD spake unto Moses, saying, I am the LORD: speak thou unto Pharaoh king of Egypt all that I say unto thee.

6:30    摩西在耶和華面前說，看哪，我是拙口笨舌的人，法老怎肯聽我呢。
And Moses said before the LORD, Behold, I am of uncircumcised lips, and how shall Pharaoh hearken unto me?



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


7:1    耶和華對摩西說，我使你在法老面前代替神，你的哥哥亞倫是替你說話的。
And the LORD said unto Moses, See, I have made thee a god to Pharaoh: and Aaron thy brother shall be thy prophet.

7:2    凡我所吩咐你的，你都要說。你的哥哥亞倫要對法老說，容以色列人出他的地。
Thou shalt speak all that I command thee: and Aaron thy brother shall speak unto Pharaoh, that he send the children of Israel out of his land.

7:3    我要使法老的心剛硬，也要在埃及地多行神蹟奇事。
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and multiply my signs and my wonders in the land of Egypt.

7:4    但法老必不聽你們，我要伸手重重地刑罰埃及，將我的軍隊以色列民從埃及地領出來。
But Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you, that I may lay my hand upon Egypt, and bring forth mine armies, and my people the children of Israel, out of the land of Egypt by great judgments.

7:5    我伸手攻擊埃及，將以色列人從他們中間領出來的時候，埃及人就要知道我是耶和華。
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I stretch forth mine hand upon Egypt, and bring out the children of Israel from among them.

7:6    摩西，亞倫這樣行，耶和華怎樣吩咐他們，他們就照樣行了。
And Moses and Aaron did as the LORD commanded them, so did they.

7:7    摩西，亞倫與法老說話的時候，摩西八十歲，亞倫八十三歲。
And Moses was fourscore years old, and Aaron fourscore and three years old, when they spake unto Pharaoh.

7:8    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

7:9    法老若對你們說，你們行件奇事吧。你就吩咐亞倫說，把杖丟在法老面前，使杖變作蛇。
When Pharaoh shall speak unto you, saying, Shew a miracle for you: then thou shalt say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and cast it before Pharaoh, and it shall become a serpent.

7:10    摩西，亞倫進去見法老，就照耶和華所吩咐的行。亞倫把杖丟在法老和臣僕面前，杖就變作蛇。
And Moses and Aaron went in unto Pharaoh, and they did so as the LORD had commanded: and Aaron cast down his rod before Pharaoh, and before his servants, and it became a serpent.

7:11    於是法老召了博士和術士來，他們是埃及行法術的，也用邪術照樣而行。
Then Pharaoh also called the wise men and the sorcerers: now the magicians of Egypt, they also did in like manner with their enchantments.

7:12    他們各人丟下自己的杖，杖就變作蛇，但亞倫的杖吞了他們的杖。
For they cast down every man his rod, and they became serpents: but Aaron's rod swallowed up their rods.

7:13    法老心裡剛硬，不肯聽從摩西，亞倫，正如耶和華所說的。
And he hardened Pharaoh's heart, that he hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.

7:14    耶和華對摩西說，法老心裡固執，不肯容百姓去。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh's heart is hardened, he refuseth to let the people go.

7:15    明日早晨，他出來往水邊去，你要往河邊迎接他，手裡要拿著那變過蛇的杖，
Get thee unto Pharaoh in the morning; lo, he goeth out unto the water; and thou shalt stand by the river's brink against he come; and the rod which was turned to a serpent shalt thou take in thine hand.

7:16    對他說，耶和華希伯來人的神打發我來見你，說，容我的百姓去，好在曠野事奉我。到如今你還是不聽。
And thou shalt say unto him, The LORD God of the Hebrews hath sent me unto thee, saying, Let my people go, that they may serve me in the wilderness: and, behold, hitherto thou wouldest not hear.

7:17    耶和華這樣說，我要用我手裡的杖擊打河中的水，水就變作血，因此，你必知道我是耶和華。
Thus saith the LORD, In this thou shalt know that I am the LORD: behold, I will smite with the rod that is in mine hand upon the waters which are in the river, and they shall be turned to blood.

7:18    河裡的魚必死，河也要腥臭，埃及人就要厭惡吃這河裡的水。
And the fish that is in the river shall die, and the river shall stink; and the Egyptians shall lothe to drink of the water of the river.

7:19    耶和華曉諭摩西說，你對亞倫說，把你的杖伸在埃及所有的水以上，就是在他們的江，河，池，塘以上，叫水都變作血。在埃及遍地，無論在木器中，石器中，都必有血。
And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Take thy rod, and stretch out thine hand upon the waters of Egypt, upon their streams, upon their rivers, and upon their ponds, and upon all their pools of water, that they may become blood; and that there may be blood throughout all the land of Egypt, both in vessels of wood, and in vessels of stone.

7:20    摩西，亞倫就照耶和華所吩咐的行。亞倫在法老和臣僕眼前舉杖擊打河裡的水，河裡的水都變作血了。
And Moses and Aaron did so, as the LORD commanded; and he lifted up the rod, and smote the waters that were in the river, in the sight of Pharaoh, and in the sight of his servants; and all the waters that were in the river were turned to blood.

7:21    河裡的魚死了，河也腥臭了，埃及人就不能吃這河裡的水，埃及遍地都有了血。
And the fish that was in the river died; and the river stank, and the Egyptians could not drink of the water of the river; and there was blood throughout all the land of Egypt.

7:22    埃及行法術的，也用邪術照樣而行。法老心裡剛硬，不肯聽摩西，亞倫，正如耶和華所說的。
And the magicians of Egypt did so with their enchantments: and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, neither did he hearken unto them; as the LORD had said.

7:23    法老轉身進宮，也不把這事放在心上。
And Pharaoh turned and went into his house, neither did he set his heart to this also.

7:24    埃及人都在河的兩邊挖地，要得水喝，因為他們不能喝這河裡的水。
And all the Egyptians digged round about the river for water to drink; for they could not drink of the water of the river.

7:25    耶和華擊打河以後滿了七天。
And seven days were fulfilled, after that the LORD had smitten the river.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華吩咐摩西說，你進去見法老，對他說，耶和華這樣說，容我的百姓去，好事奉我。
And the LORD spake unto Moses, Go unto Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:2    你若不肯容他們去，我必使青蛙糟蹋你的四境。
And if thou refuse to let them go, behold, I will smite all thy borders with frogs:

8:3    河裡要滋生青蛙，這青蛙要上來進你的宮殿和你的臥房，上你的床榻，進你臣僕的房屋，上你百姓的身上，進你的爐灶和你的摶面盆，
And the river shall bring forth frogs abundantly, which shall go up and come into thine house, and into thy bedchamber, and upon thy bed, and into the house of thy servants, and upon thy people, and into thine ovens, and into thy kneadingtroughs:

8:4    又要上你和你百姓並你眾臣僕的身上。
And the frogs shall come up both on thee, and upon thy people, and upon all thy servants.

8:5    耶和華曉諭摩西說，你對亞倫說，把你的杖伸在江，河，池以上，使青蛙到埃及地上來。
And the LORD spake unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch forth thine hand with thy rod over the streams, over the rivers, and over the ponds, and cause frogs to come up upon the land of Egypt.

8:6    亞倫便伸杖在埃及的諸水以上，青蛙就上來，遮滿了埃及地。
And Aaron stretched out his hand over the waters of Egypt; and the frogs came up, and covered the land of Egypt.

8:7    行法術的也用他們的邪術照樣而行，叫青蛙上了埃及地。
And the magicians did so with their enchantments, and brought up frogs upon the land of Egypt.

8:8    法老召了摩西，亞倫來，說，請你們求耶和華使這青蛙離開我和我的民，我就容百姓去祭祀耶和華。
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron, and said, Intreat the LORD, that he may take away the frogs from me, and from my people; and I will let the people go, that they may do sacrifice unto the LORD.

8:9    摩西對法老說，任憑你吧，我要何時為你和你的臣僕並你的百姓祈求，除滅青蛙離開你和你的宮殿只留在河裡呢。
And Moses said unto Pharaoh, Glory over me: when shall I intreat for thee, and for thy servants, and for thy people, to destroy the frogs from thee and thy houses, that they may remain in the river only?

8:10    他說，明天。摩西說，可以照你的話吧，好叫你知道沒有像耶和華我們神的。
And he said, To morrow. And he said, Be it according to thy word: that thou mayest know that there is none like unto the LORD our God.

8:11    青蛙要離開你和你的宮殿，並你的臣僕與你的百姓，只留在河裡。
And the frogs shall depart from thee, and from thy houses, and from thy servants, and from thy people; they shall remain in the river only.

8:12    於是摩西，亞倫離開法老出去。摩西為擾害法老的青蛙呼求耶和華。
And Moses and Aaron went out from Pharaoh: and Moses cried unto the LORD because of the frogs which he had brought against Pharaoh.

8:13    耶和華就照摩西的話行。凡在房裡，院中，田間的青蛙都死了。
And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and the frogs died out of the houses, out of the villages, and out of the fields.

8:14    眾人把青蛙聚攏成堆，遍地就都腥臭。
And they gathered them together upon heaps: and the land stank.

8:15    但法老見災禍鬆緩，就硬著心，不肯聽他們，正如耶和華所說的。
But when Pharaoh saw that there was respite, he hardened his heart, and hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.

8:16    耶和華吩咐摩西說，你對亞倫說，伸出你的杖擊打地上的塵土，使塵土在埃及遍地變作蝨子（或作虼蚤下同）。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Say unto Aaron, Stretch out thy rod, and smite the dust of the land, that it may become lice throughout all the land of Egypt.

8:17    他們就這樣行。亞倫伸杖擊打地上的塵土，就在人身上和牲畜身上有了蝨子，埃及遍地的塵土都變成蝨子了。
And they did so; for Aaron stretched out his hand with his rod, and smote the dust of the earth, and it became lice in man, and in beast; all the dust of the land became lice throughout all the land of Egypt.

8:18    行法術的也用邪術要生出蝨子來，卻是不能。於是在人身上和牲畜身上都有了蝨子。
And the magicians did so with their enchantments to bring forth lice, but they could not: so there were lice upon man, and upon beast.

8:19    行法術的就對法老說，這是神的手段。法老心裡剛硬，不肯聽摩西，亞倫，正如耶和華所說的。
Then the magicians said unto Pharaoh, This is the finger of God: and Pharaoh's heart was hardened, and he hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had said.

8:20    耶和華對摩西說，你清早起來，法老來到水邊，你站在他面前，對他說，耶和華這樣說，容我的百姓去，好事奉我。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh; lo, he cometh forth to the water; and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

8:21    你若不容我的百姓去，我要叫成群的蒼蠅到你和你臣僕並你百姓的身上，進你的房屋，並且埃及人的房屋和他們所住的地都要滿了成群的蒼蠅。
Else, if thou wilt not let my people go, behold, I will send swarms of flies upon thee, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people, and into thy houses: and the houses of the Egyptians shall be full of swarms of flies, and also the ground whereon they are.

8:22    當那日，我必分別我百姓所住的歌珊地，使那裡沒有成群的蒼蠅，好叫你知道我是天下的耶和華。
And I will sever in that day the land of Goshen, in which my people dwell, that no swarms of flies shall be there; to the end thou mayest know that I am the LORD in the midst of the earth.

8:23    我要將我的百姓和你的百姓分別出來。明天必有這神蹟。
And I will put a division between my people and thy people: to morrow shall this sign be.

8:24    耶和華就這樣行。蒼蠅成了大群，進入法老的宮殿，和他臣僕的房屋，埃及遍地就因這成群的蒼蠅敗壞了。
And the LORD did so; and there came a grievous swarm of flies into the house of Pharaoh, and into his servants' houses, and into all the land of Egypt: the land was corrupted by reason of the swarm of flies.

8:25    法老召了摩西，亞倫來，說，你們去，在這地祭祀你們的神吧。
And Pharaoh called for Moses and for Aaron, and said, Go ye, sacrifice to your God in the land.

8:26    摩西說，這樣行本不相宜，因為我們要把埃及人所厭惡的祭祀耶和華我們的神，若把埃及人所厭惡的在他們眼前獻為祭，他們豈不拿石頭打死我們嗎。
And Moses said, It is not meet so to do; for we shall sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians to the LORD our God: lo, shall we sacrifice the abomination of the Egyptians before their eyes, and will they not stone us?

8:27    我們要往曠野去，走三天的路程，照著耶和華我們神所要吩咐我們的祭祀他。
We will go three days' journey into the wilderness, and sacrifice to the LORD our God, as he shall command us.

8:28    法老說，我容你們去，在曠野祭祀耶和華你們的神，只是不要走得很遠。求你們為我祈禱。
And Pharaoh said, I will let you go, that ye may sacrifice to the LORD your God in the wilderness; only ye shall not go very far away: intreat for me.

8:29    摩西說，我要出去求耶和華，使成群的蒼蠅明天離開法老和法老的臣僕並法老的百姓，法老卻不可再行詭詐，不容百姓去祭祀耶和華。
And Moses said, Behold, I go out from thee, and I will intreat the LORD that the swarms of flies may depart from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people, to morrow: but let not Pharaoh deal deceitfully any more in not letting the people go to sacrifice to the LORD.

8:30    於是摩西離開法老去求耶和華。
And Moses went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

8:31    耶和華就照摩西的話行，叫成群的蒼蠅離開法老和他的臣僕並他的百姓，一個也沒有留下。
And the LORD did according to the word of Moses; and he removed the swarms of flies from Pharaoh, from his servants, and from his people; there remained not one.

8:32    這一次法老又硬著心，不容百姓去。
And Pharaoh hardened his heart at this time also, neither would he let the people go.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


9:1    耶和華吩咐摩西說，你進去見法老，對他說，耶和華希伯來人的神這樣說，容我的百姓去，好事奉我。
Then the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh, and tell him, Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.

9:2    你若不肯容他們去，仍舊強留他們，
For if thou refuse to let them go, and wilt hold them still,

9:3    耶和華的手加在你田間的牲畜上，就是在馬，驢，駱駝，牛群，羊群上，必有重重的瘟疫。
Behold, the hand of the LORD is upon thy cattle which is in the field, upon the horses, upon the asses, upon the camels, upon the oxen, and upon the sheep: there shall be a very grievous murrain.

9:4    耶和華要分別以色列的牲畜和埃及的牲畜，凡屬以色列人的，一樣都不死。
And the LORD shall sever between the cattle of Israel and the cattle of Egypt: and there shall nothing die of all that is the children's of Israel.

9:5    耶和華就定了時候，說，明天耶和華必在此地行這事。
And the LORD appointed a set time, saying, To morrow the LORD shall do this thing in the land.

9:6    第二天，耶和華就行這事。埃及的牲畜幾乎都死了，只是以色列人的牲畜一個都沒有死。
And the LORD did that thing on the morrow, and all the cattle of Egypt died: but of the cattle of the children of Israel died not one.

9:7    法老打發人去看，誰知以色列人的牲畜連一個都沒有死。法老的心卻是固執，不容百姓去。
And Pharaoh sent, and, behold, there was not one of the cattle of the Israelites dead. And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, and he did not let the people go.

9:8    耶和華吩咐摩西，亞倫說，你們取幾捧爐灰，摩西要在法老面前向天揚起來。
And the LORD said unto Moses and unto Aaron, Take to you handfuls of ashes of the furnace, and let Moses sprinkle it toward the heaven in the sight of Pharaoh.



9:9    這灰要在埃及全地變作塵土，在人身上和牲畜身上成了起泡的瘡。
And it shall become small dust in all the land of Egypt, and shall be a boil breaking forth with blains upon man, and upon beast, throughout all the land of Egypt.

9:10    摩西，亞倫取了爐灰，站在法老面前。摩西向天揚起來，就在人身上和牲畜身上成了起泡的瘡。
And they took ashes of the furnace, and stood before Pharaoh; and Moses sprinkled it up toward heaven; and it became a boil breaking forth with blains upon man, and upon beast.

9:11    行法術的在摩西面前刪立不住，因為在他們身上和一切埃及人身上都有這瘡。
And the magicians could not stand before Moses because of the boils; for the boil was upon the magicians, and upon all the Egyptians.

9:12    耶和華使法老的心剛硬，不聽他們，正如耶和華對摩西所說的。
And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh, and he hearkened not unto them; as the LORD had spoken unto Moses.

9:13    耶和華對摩西說，你清早起來，站在法老面前，對他說，耶和華希伯來人的神這樣說，容我的百姓去，好事奉我。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Rise up early in the morning, and stand before Pharaoh, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, Let my people go, that they may serve me.



9:14    因為這一次我要叫一切的災殃臨到你和你臣僕並你百姓的身上，叫你知道在普天下沒有像我的。
For I will at this time send all my plagues upon thine heart, and upon thy servants, and upon thy people; that thou mayest know that there is none like me in all the earth.

9:15    我若伸手用瘟疫攻擊你和你的百姓，你早就從地上除滅了。
For now I will stretch out my hand, that I may smite thee and thy people with pestilence; and thou shalt be cut off from the earth.

9:16    其實，我叫你存立，是特要向你顯我的大能，並要使我的名傳遍天下。
And in very deed for this cause have I raised thee up, for to shew in thee my power; and that my name may be declared throughout all the earth.

9:17    你還向我的百姓自高，不容他們去嗎。
As yet exaltest thou thyself against my people, that thou wilt not let them go?

9:18    到明天約在這時候，我必叫重大的冰雹降下，自從埃及開國以來，沒有這樣的冰雹。
Behold, to morrow about this time I will cause it to rain a very grievous hail, such as hath not been in Egypt since the foundation thereof even until now.

9:19    現在你要打發人把你的牲畜和你田間一切所有的催進來，凡在田間不收回家的，無論是人是牲畜，冰雹必降在他們身上，他們就必死。
Send therefore now, and gather thy cattle, and all that thou hast in the field; for upon every man and beast which shall be found in the field, and shall not be brought home, the hail shall come down upon them, and they shall die.

9:20    法老的臣僕中，懼怕耶和華這話的，便叫他的奴僕和牲畜跑進家來。
He that feared the word of the LORD among the servants of Pharaoh made his servants and his cattle flee into the houses:

9:21    但那不把耶和華這話放在心上的，就將他的奴僕和牲畜留在田裡。
And he that regarded not the word of the LORD left his servants and his cattle in the field.

9:22    耶和華對摩西說，你向天伸杖，使埃及遍地的人身上和牲畜身上，並田間各樣菜蔬上，都有冰雹。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch forth thine hand toward heaven, that there may be hail in all the land of Egypt, upon man, and upon beast, and upon every herb of the field, throughout the land of Egypt.

9:23    摩西向天伸杖，耶和華就打雷下雹，有火閃到地上，耶和華下雹在埃及地上。
And Moses stretched forth his rod toward heaven: and the LORD sent thunder and hail, and the fire ran along upon the ground; and the LORD rained hail upon the land of Egypt.

9:24    那時，雹與火攙雜，甚是厲害，自從埃及成國以來，遍地沒有這樣的。
So there was hail, and fire mingled with the hail, very grievous, such as there was none like it in all the land of Egypt since it became a nation.

9:25    在埃及遍地，雹擊打了田間所有的人和牲畜，並一切的菜蔬，又打壞田間一切的樹木。
And the hail smote throughout all the land of Egypt all that was in the field, both man and beast; and the hail smote every herb of the field, and brake every tree of the field.

9:26    惟獨以色列人所住的歌珊地沒有冰雹。
Only in the land of Goshen, where the children of Israel were, was there no hail.

9:27    法老打發人召摩西，亞倫來，對他們說，這一次我犯了罪了。耶和華是公義的，我和我的百姓是邪惡的。
And Pharaoh sent, and called for Moses and Aaron, and said unto them, I have sinned this time: the LORD is righteous, and I and my people are wicked.

9:28    這雷轟和冰雹已經夠了。請你們求耶和華，我就容你們去，不再留住你們。
Intreat the LORD (for it is enough) that there be no more mighty thunderings and hail; and I will let you go, and ye shall stay no longer.

9:29    摩西對他說，我一出城，就要向耶和華舉手禱告，雷必止住，也不再有冰雹，叫你知道全地都是屬耶和華的。
And Moses said unto him, As soon as I am gone out of the city, I will spread abroad my hands unto the LORD; and the thunder shall cease, neither shall there be any more hail; that thou mayest know how that the earth is the LORD's.

9:30    至於你和你的臣僕，我知道你們還是不懼怕耶和華神。
But as for thee and thy servants, I know that ye will not yet fear the LORD God.

9:31    那時，麻和大麥被雹擊打，因為大麥已經吐穗，麻也開了花。
And the flax and the barley was smitten: for the barley was in the ear, and the flax was bolled.

9:32    只是小麥和粗麥沒有被擊打，因為還沒有長成。
But the wheat and the rie were not smitten: for they were not grown up.

9:33    摩西離了法老出城，向耶和華舉手禱告，雷和雹就止住，雨也不再澆在地上了。
And Moses went out of the city from Pharaoh, and spread abroad his hands unto the LORD: and the thunders and hail ceased, and the rain was not poured upon the earth.

9:34    法老見雨和雹與雷止住，就越發犯罪，他和他的臣僕都硬著心。
And when Pharaoh saw that the rain and the hail and the thunders were ceased, he sinned yet more, and hardened his heart, he and his servants.

9:35    法老的心剛硬，不容以色列人去，正如耶和華藉著摩西所說的。
And the heart of Pharaoh was hardened, neither would he let the children of Israel go; as the LORD had spoken by Moses.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


10:1    耶和華對摩西說，你進去見法老。我使他和他臣僕的心剛硬，為要在他們中間顯我這些神蹟，
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go in unto Pharaoh: for I have hardened his heart, and the heart of his servants, that I might shew these my signs before him:

10:2    並要叫你將我向埃及人所作的事，和在他們中間所行的神蹟，傳於你兒子和你孫子的耳中，好叫你們知道我是耶和華。
And that thou mayest tell in the ears of thy son, and of thy son's son, what things I have wrought in Egypt, and my signs which I have done among them; that ye may know how that I am the LORD.

10:3    摩西，亞倫就進去見法老，對他說，耶和華希伯來人的神這樣說，你在我面前不肯自卑要到幾時呢。容我的百姓去，好事奉我。
And Moses and Aaron came in unto Pharaoh, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of the Hebrews, How long wilt thou refuse to humble thyself before me? let my people go, that they may serve me.

10:4    你若不肯容我的百姓去，明天我要使蝗蟲進入你的境內，
Else, if thou refuse to let my people go, behold, to morrow will I bring the locusts into thy coast:

10:5    遮滿地面，甚至看不見地，並且吃那冰雹所剩的和田間所長的一切樹木。
And they shall cover the face of the earth, that one cannot be able to see the earth: and they shall eat the residue of that which is escaped, which remaineth unto you from the hail, and shall eat every tree which groweth for you out of the field:

10:6    你的宮殿和你眾臣僕的房屋，並一切埃及人的房屋，都要被蝗蟲佔滿了，自從你祖宗和你祖宗的祖宗在世以來，直到今日，沒有見過這樣的災。摩西就轉身離開法老出去。
And they shall fill thy houses, and the houses of all thy servants, and the houses of all the Egyptians; which neither thy fathers, nor thy fathers' fathers have seen, since the day that they were upon the earth unto this day. And he turned himself, and went out from Pharaoh.

10:7    法老的臣僕對法老說，這人為我們的網羅要到幾時呢。容這些人去事奉耶和華他們的神吧，埃及已經敗壞了，你還不知道嗎。
And Pharaoh's servants said unto him, How long shall this man be a snare unto us? let the men go, that they may serve the LORD their God: knowest thou not yet that Egypt is destroyed?

10:8    於是摩西，亞倫被召回來見法老，法老對他們說，你們去事奉耶和華你們的神，但那要去的是誰呢。
And Moses and Aaron were brought again unto Pharaoh: and he said unto them, Go, serve the LORD your God: but who are they that shall go?

10:9    摩西說，我們要和我們老的少的，兒子女兒同去，且把羊群牛群一同帶去，因為我們務要向耶和華守節。
And Moses said, We will go with our young and with our old, with our sons and with our daughters, with our flocks and with our herds will we go; for we must hold a feast unto the LORD.

10:10    法老對他們說，我容你們和你們婦人孩子去的時候，耶和華與你們同在吧，你們要謹慎，因為有禍在你們眼前（或作你們存著惡意），
And he said unto them, Let the LORD be so with you, as I will let you go, and your little ones: look to it; for evil is before you.

10:11    不可都去，你們這壯年人去事奉耶和華吧，因為這是你們所求的。於是把他們從法老面前攆出去。
Not so: go now ye that are men, and serve the LORD; for that ye did desire. And they were driven out from Pharaoh's presence.

10:12    耶和華對摩西說，你向埃及地伸杖，使蝗蟲到埃及地上來，吃地上一切的菜蔬，就是冰雹所剩的。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the land of Egypt for the locusts, that they may come up upon the land of Egypt, and eat every herb of the land, even all that the hail hath left.

10:13    摩西就向埃及地伸杖，那一晝一夜，耶和華使東風颳在埃及地上，到了早晨，東風把蝗蟲颳了來。
And Moses stretched forth his rod over the land of Egypt, and the LORD brought an east wind upon the land all that day, and all that night; and when it was morning, the east wind brought the locusts.

10:14    蝗蟲上來，落在埃及的四境，甚是厲害，以前沒有這樣的，以後也必沒有。
And the locusts went up over all the land of Egypt, and rested in all the coasts of Egypt: very grievous were they; before them there were no such locusts as they, neither after them shall be such.

10:15    因為這蝗蟲遮滿地面，甚至地都黑暗了，又吃地上一切的菜蔬和冰雹所剩樹上的果子。埃及遍地，無論是樹木，是田間的菜蔬，連一點青的也沒有留下。
For they covered the face of the whole earth, so that the land was darkened; and they did eat every herb of the land, and all the fruit of the trees which the hail had left: and there remained not any green thing in the trees, or in the herbs of the field, through all the land of Egypt.

10:16    於是法老急忙召了摩西，亞倫來，說，我得罪耶和華你們的神，又得罪了你們。
Then Pharaoh called for Moses and Aaron in haste; and he said, I have sinned against the LORD your God, and against you.

10:17    現在求你，只這一次，饒恕我的罪，求耶和華你們的神使我脫離這一次的死亡。
Now therefore forgive, I pray thee, my sin only this once, and intreat the LORD your God, that he may take away from me this death only.

10:18    摩西就離開法老去求耶和華。
And he went out from Pharaoh, and intreated the LORD.

10:19    耶和華轉了極大的西風，把蝗蟲颳起，吹入紅海，在埃及的四境連一個也沒有留下。
And the LORD turned a mighty strong west wind, which took away the locusts, and cast them into the Red sea; there remained not one locust in all the coasts of Egypt.

10:20    但耶和華使法老的心剛硬，不容以色列人去。
But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go.

10:21    耶和華對摩西說，你向天伸杖，使埃及地黑暗，這黑暗似乎摸得著。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand toward heaven, that there may be darkness over the land of Egypt, even darkness which may be felt.

10:22    摩西向天伸杖，埃及遍地就烏黑了三天。
And Moses stretched forth his hand toward heaven; and there was a thick darkness in all the land of Egypt three days:

10:23    三天之久，人不能相見，誰也不敢起來離開本處，惟有以色列人家中都有亮光。
They saw not one another, neither rose any from his place for three days: but all the children of Israel had light in their dwellings.

10:24    法老就召摩西來，說，你們去事奉耶和華，只是你們的羊群牛群要留下，你們的婦人孩子可以和你們同去。
And Pharaoh called unto Moses, and said, Go ye, serve the LORD; only let your flocks and your herds be stayed: let your little ones also go with you.

10:25    摩西說，你總要把祭物和燔祭牲交給我們，使我們可以祭祀耶和華我們的神。
And Moses said, Thou must give us also sacrifices and burnt offerings, that we may sacrifice unto the LORD our God.

10:26    我們的牲畜也要帶去，連一蹄也不留下，因為我們要從其中取出來，事奉耶和華我們的神。我們未到那裡，還不知道用什麼事奉耶和華。
Our cattle also shall go with us; there shall not an hoof be left behind; for thereof must we take to serve the LORD our God; and we know not with what we must serve the LORD, until we come thither.

10:27    但耶和華使法老的心剛硬，不肯容他們去。
But the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, and he would not let them go.

10:28    法老對摩西說，你離開我去吧，你要小心，不要再見我的面，因為你見我面的那日你就必死。
And Pharaoh said unto him, Get thee from me, take heed to thyself, see my face no more; for in that day thou seest my face thou shalt die.

10:29    摩西說，你說得好，我必不再見你的面了。
And Moses said, Thou hast spoken well, I will see thy face again no more.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


11:1    耶和華對摩西說，我再使一樣的災殃臨到法老和埃及，然後他必容你們離開這地。他容你們去的時候，總要催逼你們都從這地出去。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Yet will I bring one plague more upon Pharaoh, and upon Egypt; afterwards he will let you go hence: when he shall let you go, he shall surely thrust you out hence altogether.

11:2    你要傳於百姓的耳中，叫他們男女各人向鄰舍要金器銀器。
Speak now in the ears of the people, and let every man borrow of his neighbour, and every woman of her neighbour, jewels of silver, and jewels of gold.



11:3    耶和華叫百姓在埃及人眼前蒙恩，並且摩西在埃及地，法老臣僕，和百姓的眼中看為極大。
And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians. Moreover the man Moses was very great in the land of Egypt, in the sight of Pharaoh's servants, and in the sight of the people.

11:4    摩西說，耶和華這樣說，約到半夜，我必出去巡行埃及遍地。
And Moses said, Thus saith the LORD, About midnight will I go out into the midst of Egypt:

11:5    凡在埃及地，從坐寶座的法老直到磨子後的婢女所有的長子，以及一切頭生的牲畜，都必死。
And all the firstborn in the land of Egypt shall die, from the first born of Pharaoh that sitteth upon his throne, even unto the firstborn of the maidservant that is behind the mill; and all the firstborn of beasts.

11:6    埃及遍地必有大哀號，從前沒有這樣的，後來也必沒有。
And there shall be a great cry throughout all the land of Egypt, such as there was none like it, nor shall be like it any more.

11:7    至於以色列中，無論是人是牲畜，連狗也不敢向他們搖舌，好叫你們知道耶和華是將埃及人和以色列人分別出來。
But against any of the children of Israel shall not a dog move his tongue, against man or beast: that ye may know how that the LORD doth put a difference between the Egyptians and Israel.

11:8    你這一切臣僕都要俯伏來見我，說，求你和跟從你的百姓都出去，然後我要出去。於是，摩西氣忿忿地離開法老，出去了。
And all these thy servants shall come down unto me, and bow down themselves unto me, saying, Get thee out, and all the people that follow thee: and after that I will go out. And he went out from Pharaoh in a great anger.

11:9    耶和華對摩西說，法老必不聽你們，使我的奇事在埃及地多起來。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Pharaoh shall not hearken unto you; that my wonders may be multiplied in the land of Egypt.

11:10    摩西，亞倫在法老面前行了這一切奇事，耶和華使法老的心剛硬，不容以色列人出離他的地。
And Moses and Aaron did all these wonders before Pharaoh: and the LORD hardened Pharaoh's heart, so that he would not let the children of Israel go out of his land.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


12:1    耶和華在埃及地曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in the land of Egypt, saying,

12:2    你們要以本月為正月，為一年之首。
This month shall be unto you the beginning of months: it shall be the first month of the year to you.

12:3    你們吩咐以色列全會眾說，本月初十日，各人要按著父家取羊羔，一家一隻。
Speak ye unto all the congregation of Israel, saying, In the tenth day of this month they shall take to them every man a lamb, according to the house of their fathers, a lamb for an house:

12:4    若是一家的人太少，吃不了一隻羊羔，本人就要和他隔壁的鄰舍共取一隻。你們預備羊羔，要按著人數和飯量計算。
And if the household be too little for the lamb, let him and his neighbour next unto his house take it according to the number of the souls; every man according to his eating shall make your count for the lamb.

12:5    要無殘疾，一歲的公羊羔，你們或從綿羊裡取，或從山羊裡取，都可以。
Your lamb shall be without blemish, a male of the first year: ye shall take it out from the sheep, or from the goats:

12:6    要留到本月十四日，在黃昏的時候，以色列全會眾把羊羔宰了。
And ye shall keep it up until the fourteenth day of the same month: and the whole assembly of the congregation of Israel shall kill it in the evening.

12:7    各家要取點血，塗在吃羊羔的房屋左右的門框上和門楣上。
And they shall take of the blood, and strike it on the two side posts and on the upper door post of the houses, wherein they shall eat it.

12:8    當夜要吃羊羔的肉，用火烤了，與無酵餅和苦菜同吃。
And they shall eat the flesh in that night, roast with fire, and unleavened bread; and with bitter herbs they shall eat it.

12:9    不可吃生的，斷不可吃水煮的，要帶著頭，腿，五臟，用火烤了吃。
Eat not of it raw, nor sodden at all with water, but roast with fire; his head with his legs, and with the purtenance thereof.

12:10    不可剩下一點留到早晨，若留到早晨，要用火燒了。
And ye shall let nothing of it remain until the morning; and that which remaineth of it until the morning ye shall burn with fire.

12:11    你們吃羊羔當腰間束帶，腳上穿鞋，手中拿杖，趕緊地吃，這是耶和華的逾越節。
And thus shall ye eat it; with your loins girded, your shoes on your feet, and your staff in your hand; and ye shall eat it in haste: it is the LORD's passover.

12:12    因為那夜我要巡行埃及地，把埃及地一切頭生的，無論是人是牲畜，都擊殺了，又要敗壞埃及一切的神。我是耶和華。
For I will pass through the land of Egypt this night, and will smite all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both man and beast; and against all the gods of Egypt I will execute judgment: I am the LORD.

12:13    這血要在你們所住的房屋上作記號，我一見這血，就越過你們去。我擊殺埃及地頭生的時候，災殃必不臨到你們身上滅你們。
And the blood shall be to you for a token upon the houses where ye are: and when I see the blood, I will pass over you, and the plague shall not be upon you to destroy you, when I smite the land of Egypt.

12:14    你們要記念這日，守為耶和華的節，作為你們世世代代永遠的定例。
And this day shall be unto you for a memorial; and ye shall keep it a feast to the LORD throughout your generations; ye shall keep it a feast by an ordinance for ever.

12:15    你們要吃無酵餅七日。頭一日要把酵從你們各家中除去，因為從頭一日起，到第七日為止，凡吃有酵之餅的，必從以色列中剪除。
Seven days shall ye eat unleavened bread; even the first day ye shall put away leaven out of your houses: for whosoever eateth leavened bread from the first day until the seventh day, that soul shall be cut off from Israel.

12:16    頭一日你們當有聖會，第七日也當有聖會。這兩日之內，除了預備各人所要吃的以外，無論何工都不可作。
And in the first day there shall be an holy convocation, and in the seventh day there shall be an holy convocation to you; no manner of work shall be done in them, save that which every man must eat, that only may be done of you.

12:17    你們要守無酵節，因為我正當這日把你們的軍隊從埃及地領出來。所以，你們要守這日，作為世世代代永遠的定例。
And ye shall observe the feast of unleavened bread; for in this selfsame day have I brought your armies out of the land of Egypt: therefore shall ye observe this day in your generations by an ordinance for ever.

12:18    從正月十四日晚上，直到二十一日晚上，你們要吃無酵餅。
In the first month, on the fourteenth day of the month at even, ye shall eat unleavened bread, until the one and twentieth day of the month at even.

12:19    在你們各家中，七日之內不可有酵，因為凡吃有酵之物的，無論是寄居的，是本地的，必從以色列的會中剪除。
Seven days shall there be no leaven found in your houses: for whosoever eateth that which is leavened, even that soul shall be cut off from the congregation of Israel, whether he be a stranger, or born in the land.

12:20    有酵的物，你們都不可吃，在你們一切住處要吃無酵餅。
Ye shall eat nothing leavened; in all your habitations shall ye eat unleavened bread.

12:21    於是，摩西召了以色列的眾長老來，對他們說，你們要按著家口取出羊羔，把這逾越節的羊羔宰了。
Then Moses called for all the elders of Israel, and said unto them, Draw out and take you a lamb according to your families, and kill the passover.

12:22    拿一把牛膝草，蘸盆裡的血，打在門楣上和左右的門框上。你們誰也不可出自己的房門，直到早晨。
And ye shall take a bunch of hyssop, and dip it in the blood that is in the bason, and strike the lintel and the two side posts with the blood that is in the bason; and none of you shall go out at the door of his house until the morning.

12:23    因為耶和華要巡行擊殺埃及人，他看見血在門楣上和左右的門框上，就必越過那門，不容滅命的進你們的房屋，擊殺你們。
For the LORD will pass through to smite the Egyptians; and when he seeth the blood upon the lintel, and on the two side posts, the LORD will pass over the door, and will not suffer the destroyer to come in unto your houses to smite you.

12:24    這例，你們要守著，作為你們和你們子孫永遠的定例。
And ye shall observe this thing for an ordinance to thee and to thy sons for ever.

12:25    日後，你們到了耶和華按著所應許賜給你們的那地，就要守這禮。
And it shall come to pass, when ye be come to the land which the LORD will give you, according as he hath promised, that ye shall keep this service.

12:26    你們的兒女問你們說，行這禮是什麼意思。
And it shall come to pass, when your children shall say unto you, What mean ye by this service?

12:27    你們就說，這是獻給耶和華逾越節的祭。當以色列人在埃及的時候，他擊殺埃及人，越過以色列人的房屋，救了我們各家。於是百姓低頭下拜。
That ye shall say, It is the sacrifice of the LORD's passover, who passed over the houses of the children of Israel in Egypt, when he smote the Egyptians, and delivered our houses. And the people bowed the head and worshipped.

12:28    耶和華怎樣吩咐摩西，亞倫，以色列人就怎樣行。
And the children of Israel went away, and did as the LORD had commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.

12:29    到了半夜，耶和華把埃及地所有的長子，就是從坐寶座的法老，直到被擄囚在監裡之人的長子，以及一切頭生的牲畜，盡都殺了。
And it came to pass, that at midnight the LORD smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, from the firstborn of Pharaoh that sat on his throne unto the firstborn of the captive that was in the dungeon; and all the firstborn of cattle.

12:30    法老和一切臣僕，並埃及眾人，夜間都起來了。在埃及有大哀號，無一家不死一個人的。
And Pharaoh rose up in the night, he, and all his servants, and all the Egyptians; and there was a great cry in Egypt; for there was not a house where there was not one dead.

12:31    夜間，法老召了摩西，亞倫來，說，起來，連你們帶以色列人，從我民中出去，依你們所說的，去事奉耶和華吧。
And he called for Moses and Aaron by night, and said, Rise up, and get you forth from among my people, both ye and the children of Israel; and go, serve the LORD, as ye have said.

12:32    也依你們所說的，連羊群牛群帶著走吧，並要為我祝福。
Also take your flocks and your herds, as ye have said, and be gone; and bless me also.

12:33    埃及人催促百姓，打發他們快快出離那地，因為埃及人說，我們都要死了。
And the Egyptians were urgent upon the people, that they might send them out of the land in haste; for they said, We be all dead men.

12:34    百姓就拿著沒有酵的生面，把摶面盆包在衣服中，扛在肩頭上。
And the people took their dough before it was leavened, their kneadingtroughs being bound up in their clothes upon their shoulders.

12:35    以色列人照著摩西的話行，向埃及人要金器，銀器，和衣裳。
And the children of Israel did according to the word of Moses; and they borrowed of the Egyptians jewels of silver, and jewels of gold, and raiment:

12:36    耶和華叫百姓在埃及人眼前蒙恩，以致埃及人給他們所要的。他們就把埃及人的財物奪去了。
And the LORD gave the people favour in the sight of the Egyptians, so that they lent unto them such things as they required. And they spoiled the Egyptians.

12:37    以色列人從蘭塞起行，往疏割去，除了婦人孩子，步行的男人約有六十萬。
And the children of Israel journeyed from Rameses to Succoth, about six hundred thousand on foot that were men, beside children.

12:38    又有許多閒雜人，並有羊群牛群，和他們一同上去。
And a mixed multitude went up also with them; and flocks, and herds, even very much cattle.

12:39    他們用埃及帶出來的生面烤成無酵餅。這生面原沒有發起，因為他們被催逼離開埃及，不能耽延，也沒有為自己預備什麼食物。
And they baked unleavened cakes of the dough which they brought forth out of Egypt, for it was not leavened; because they were thrust out of Egypt, and could not tarry, neither had they prepared for themselves any victual.

12:40    以色列人住在埃及共有四百三十年。
Now the sojourning of the children of Israel, who dwelt in Egypt, was four hundred and thirty years.

12:41    正滿了四百三十年的那一天，耶和華的軍隊都從埃及地出來了。
And it came to pass at the end of the four hundred and thirty years, even the selfsame day it came to pass, that all the hosts of the LORD went out from the land of Egypt.

12:42    這夜是耶和華的夜，因耶和華領他們出了埃及地，所以當向耶和華謹守，是以色列眾人世世代代該謹守的。
It is a night to be much observed unto the LORD for bringing them out from the land of Egypt: this is that night of the LORD to be observed of all the children of Israel in their generations.

12:43    耶和華對摩西，亞倫說，逾越節的例是這樣，外邦人都不可吃這羊羔。
And the LORD said unto Moses and Aaron, This is the ordinance of the passover: There shall no stranger eat thereof:

12:44    但各人用銀子買的奴僕，既受了割禮就可以吃。
But every man's servant that is bought for money, when thou hast circumcised him, then shall he eat thereof.

12:45    寄居的和僱工人都不可吃。
A foreigner and an hired servant shall not eat thereof.

12:46    應當在一個房子裡吃，不可把一點肉從房子裡帶到外頭去。羊羔的骨頭一根也不可折斷。
In one house shall it be eaten; thou shalt not carry forth ought of the flesh abroad out of the house; neither shall ye break a bone thereof.

12:47    以色列全會眾都要守這禮。
All the congregation of Israel shall keep it.

12:48    若有外人寄居在你們中間，願向耶和華守逾越節，他所有的男子務要受割禮，然後才容他前來遵守，他也就像本地人一樣，但未受割禮的，都不可吃這羊羔。
And when a stranger shall sojourn with thee, and will keep the passover to the LORD, let all his males be circumcised, and then let him come near and keep it; and he shall be as one that is born in the land: for no uncircumcised person shall eat thereof.

12:49    本地人和寄居在你們中間的外人同歸一例。
One law shall be to him that is homeborn, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among you.

12:50    耶和華怎樣吩咐摩西，亞倫，以色列眾人就怎樣行了。
Thus did all the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses and Aaron, so did they.

12:51    正當那日，耶和華將以色列人按著他們的軍隊，從埃及地領出來。
And it came to pass the selfsame day, that the LORD did bring the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt by their armies.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


13:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

13:2    以色列中凡頭生的，無論是人是牲畜，都是我的，要分別為聖歸我。
Sanctify unto me all the firstborn, whatsoever openeth the womb among the children of Israel, both of man and of beast: it is mine.

13:3    摩西對百姓說，你們要記念從埃及為奴之家出來的這日，因為耶和華用大能的手將你們從這地方領出來。有酵的餅都不可吃。
And Moses said unto the people, Remember this day, in which ye came out from Egypt, out of the house of bondage; for by strength of hand the LORD brought you out from this place: there shall no leavened bread be eaten.

13:4    亞筆月間的這日是你們出來的日子。
This day came ye out in the month Abib.

13:5    將來耶和華領你進迦南人，赫人，亞摩利人，希未人，耶布斯人之地，就是他向你的祖宗起誓應許給你那流奶與蜜之地，那時你要在這月間守這禮。
And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee, a land flowing with milk and honey, that thou shalt keep this service in this month.

13:6    你要吃無酵餅七日，到第七日要向耶和華守節。
Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, and in the seventh day shall be a feast to the LORD.

13:7    這七日之久，要吃無酵餅，在你四境之內不可見有酵的餅，也不可見發酵的物。
Unleavened bread shall be eaten seven days; and there shall no leavened bread be seen with thee, neither shall there be leaven seen with thee in all thy quarters.

13:8    當那日，你要告訴你的兒子說，這是因耶和華在我出埃及的時候為我所行的事。
And thou shalt shew thy son in that day, saying, This is done because of that which the LORD did unto me when I came forth out of Egypt.

13:9    這要在你手上作記號，在你額上作紀念，使耶和華的律法常在你口中，因為耶和華曾用大能的手將你從埃及領出來。
And it shall be for a sign unto thee upon thine hand, and for a memorial between thine eyes, that the LORD's law may be in thy mouth: for with a strong hand hath the LORD brought thee out of Egypt.

13:10    所以你每年要按著日期守這例。
Thou shalt therefore keep this ordinance in his season from year to year.

13:11    將來，耶和華照他向你和你祖宗所起的誓將你領進迦南人之地，把這地賜給你，
And it shall be when the LORD shall bring thee into the land of the Canaanites, as he sware unto thee and to thy fathers, and shall give it thee,

13:12    那時你要將一切頭生的，並牲畜中頭生的，歸給耶和華，公的都要屬耶和華。
That thou shalt set apart unto the LORD all that openeth the matrix, and every firstling that cometh of a beast which thou hast; the males shall be the LORD's.

13:13    凡頭生的驢，你要用羊羔代贖，若不代贖，就要打折它的頸項。凡你兒子中頭生的都要贖出來。
And every firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb; and if thou wilt not redeem it, then thou shalt break his neck: and all the firstborn of man among thy children shalt thou redeem.

13:14    日後，你的兒子問你說，這是什麼意思。你就說，耶和華用大能的手將我們從埃及為奴之家領出來。
And it shall be when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What is this? that thou shalt say unto him, By strength of hand the LORD brought us out from Egypt, from the house of bondage:

13:15    那時法老幾乎不容我們去，耶和華就把埃及地所有頭生的，無論是人是牲畜，都殺了。因此，我把一切頭生的公牲畜獻給耶和華為祭，但將頭生的兒子都贖出來。
And it came to pass, when Pharaoh would hardly let us go, that the LORD slew all the firstborn in the land of Egypt, both the firstborn of man, and the firstborn of beast: therefore I sacrifice to the LORD all that openeth the matrix, being males; but all the firstborn of my children I redeem.

13:16    這要在你手上作記號，在你額上作經文，因為耶和華用大能的手將我們從埃及領出來。
And it shall be for a token upon thine hand, and for frontlets between thine eyes: for by strength of hand the LORD brought us forth out of Egypt.

13:17    法老容百姓去的時候，非利士地的道路雖近，神卻不領他們從那裡走，因為神說，恐怕百姓遇見打仗後悔，就回埃及去。
And it came to pass, when Pharaoh had let the people go, that God led them not through the way of the land of the Philistines, although that was near; for God said, Lest peradventure the people repent when they see war, and they return to Egypt:

13:18    所以神領百姓繞道而行，走紅海曠野的路。以色列人出埃及地，都帶著兵器上去。
But God led the people about, through the way of the wilderness of the Red sea: and the children of Israel went up harnessed out of the land of Egypt.

13:19    摩西把約瑟的骸骨一同帶去，因為約瑟曾叫以色列人嚴嚴地起誓，對他們說，神必眷顧你們，你們要把我的骸骨從這裡一同帶上去。
And Moses took the bones of Joseph with him: for he had straitly sworn the children of Israel, saying, God will surely visit you; and ye shall carry up my bones away hence with you.

13:20    他們從疏割起行，在曠野邊的以倘安營。
And they took their journey from Succoth, and encamped in Etham, in the edge of the wilderness.

13:21    日間，耶和華在雲柱中領他們的路，夜間，在火柱中光照他們，使他們日夜都可以行走。
And the LORD went before them by day in a pillar of a cloud, to lead them the way; and by night in a pillar of fire, to give them light; to go by day and night:

13:22    日間雲柱，夜間火柱，總不離開百姓的面前。
He took not away the pillar of the cloud by day, nor the pillar of fire by night, from before the people.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


14:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

14:2    你吩咐以色列人轉回，安營在比雜湊錄前，密奪和海的中間，對著巴力洗分，靠近海邊安營。
Speak unto the children of Israel, that they turn and encamp before Pihahiroth, between Migdol and the sea, over against Baalzephon: before it shall ye encamp by the sea.

14:3    法老必說，以色列人在地中繞迷了，曠野把他們困住了。
For Pharaoh will say of the children of Israel, They are entangled in the land, the wilderness hath shut them in.

14:4    我要使法老的心剛硬，他要追趕他們，我便在法老和他全軍身上得榮耀，埃及人就知道我是耶和華。於是以色列人這樣行了。
And I will harden Pharaoh's heart, that he shall follow after them; and I will be honoured upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host; that the Egyptians may know that I am the LORD. And they did so.

14:5    有人告訴埃及王說，百姓逃跑。法老和他的臣僕就向百姓變心，說，我們容以色列人去，不再服事我們，這作的是什麼事呢。
And it was told the king of Egypt that the people fled: and the heart of Pharaoh and of his servants was turned against the people, and they said, Why have we done this, that we have let Israel go from serving us?

14:6    法老就預備他的車輛，帶領軍兵同去，
And he made ready his chariot, and took his people with him:

14:7    並帶著六百輛特選的車和埃及所有的車，每輛都有車兵長。
And he took six hundred chosen chariots, and all the chariots of Egypt, and captains over every one of them.

14:8    耶和華使埃及王法老的心剛硬，他就追趕以色列人，因為以色列人是昂然無懼地出埃及。
And the LORD hardened the heart of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and he pursued after the children of Israel: and the children of Israel went out with an high hand.

14:9    埃及人追趕他們，法老一切的馬匹，車輛，馬兵，與軍兵就在海邊上，靠近比雜湊錄，對著巴力洗分，在他們安營的地方追上了。
But the Egyptians pursued after them, all the horses and chariots of Pharaoh, and his horsemen, and his army, and overtook them encamping by the sea, beside Pihahiroth, before Baalzephon.

14:10    法老臨近的時候，以色列人舉目看見埃及人趕來，就甚懼怕，向耶和華哀求。
And when Pharaoh drew nigh, the children of Israel lifted up their eyes, and, behold, the Egyptians marched after them; and they were sore afraid: and the children of Israel cried out unto the LORD.

14:11    他們對摩西說，難道在埃及沒有墳地，你把我們帶來死在曠野嗎。你為什麼這樣待我們，將我們從埃及領出來呢。
And they said unto Moses, Because there were no graves in Egypt, hast thou taken us away to die in the wilderness? wherefore hast thou dealt thus with us, to carry us forth out of Egypt?

14:12    我們在埃及豈沒有對你說過，不要攪擾我們，容我們服事埃及人嗎，因為服事埃及人比死在曠野還好。
Is not this the word that we did tell thee in Egypt, saying, Let us alone, that we may serve the Egyptians? For it had been better for us to serve the Egyptians, than that we should die in the wilderness.

14:13    摩西對百姓說，不要懼怕，只管站住，看耶和華今天向你們所要施行的救恩。因為，你們今天所看見的埃及人必永遠不再看見了。
And Moses said unto the people, Fear ye not, stand still, and see the salvation of the LORD, which he will shew to you to day: for the Egyptians whom ye have seen to day, ye shall see them again no more for ever.

14:14    耶和華必為你們爭戰，你們只管靜默，不要作聲。
The LORD shall fight for you, and ye shall hold your peace.

14:15    耶和華對摩西說，你為什麼向我哀求呢，你吩咐以色列人往前走。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Wherefore criest thou unto me? speak unto the children of Israel, that they go forward:

14:16    你舉手向海伸杖，把水分開。以色列人要下海中走乾地。
But lift thou up thy rod, and stretch out thine hand over the sea, and divide it: and the children of Israel shall go on dry ground through the midst of the sea.

14:17    我要使埃及人的心剛硬，他們就跟著下去。我要在法老和他的全軍，車輛，馬兵上得榮耀。
And I, behold, I will harden the hearts of the Egyptians, and they shall follow them: and I will get me honour upon Pharaoh, and upon all his host, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen.

14:18    我在法老和他的車輛，馬兵上得榮耀的時候，埃及人就知道我是耶和華了。
And the Egyptians shall know that I am the LORD, when I have gotten me honour upon Pharaoh, upon his chariots, and upon his horsemen.

14:19    在以色列營前行走神的使者，轉到他們後邊去，雲柱也從他們前邊轉到他們後邊立住。
And the angel of God, which went before the camp of Israel, removed and went behind them; and the pillar of the cloud went from before their face, and stood behind them:

14:20    在埃及營和以色列營中間有云柱，一邊黑暗，一邊發光，終夜兩下不得相近。
And it came between the camp of the Egyptians and the camp of Israel; and it was a cloud and darkness to them, but it gave light by night to these: so that the one came not near the other all the night.

14:21    摩西向海伸杖，耶和華便用大東風，使海水一夜退去，水便分開，海就成了乾地。
And Moses stretched out his hand over the sea; and the LORD caused the sea to go back by a strong east wind all that night, and made the sea dry land, and the waters were divided.

14:22    以色列人下海中走乾地，水在他們的左右作了牆垣。
And the children of Israel went into the midst of the sea upon the dry ground: and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left.

14:23    埃及人追趕他們，法老一切的馬匹，車輛，和馬兵都跟著下到海中。
And the Egyptians pursued, and went in after them to the midst of the sea, even all Pharaoh's horses, his chariots, and his horsemen.

14:24    到了晨更的時候，耶和華從雲火柱中向埃及的軍兵觀看，使埃及的軍兵混亂了，
And it came to pass, that in the morning watch the LORD looked unto the host of the Egyptians through the pillar of fire and of the cloud, and troubled the host of the Egyptians,

14:25    又使他們的車輪脫落，難以行走，以致埃及人說，我們從以色列人面前逃跑吧，因耶和華為他們攻擊我們了。
And took off their chariot wheels, that they drave them heavily: so that the Egyptians said, Let us flee from the face of Israel; for the LORD fighteth for them against the Egyptians.

14:26    耶和華對摩西說，你向海伸杖，叫水仍合在埃及人並他們的車輛，馬兵身上。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Stretch out thine hand over the sea, that the waters may come again upon the Egyptians, upon their chariots, and upon their horsemen.

14:27    摩西就向海伸杖，到了天一亮，海水仍舊復原。埃及人避水逃跑的時候，耶和華把他們推翻在海中，
And Moses stretched forth his hand over the sea, and the sea returned to his strength when the morning appeared; and the Egyptians fled against it; and the LORD overthrew the Egyptians in the midst of the sea.

14:28    水就回流，淹沒了車輛和馬兵。那些跟著以色列人下海法老的全軍，連一個也沒有剩下。
And the waters returned, and covered the chariots, and the horsemen, and all the host of Pharaoh that came into the sea after them; there remained not so much as one of them.

14:29    以色列人卻在海中走乾地，水在他們的左右作了牆垣。
But the children of Israel walked upon dry land in the midst of the sea; and the waters were a wall unto them on their right hand, and on their left.

14:30    當日，耶和華這樣拯救以色列人脫離埃及人的手，以色列人看見埃及人的死屍都在海邊了。
Thus the LORD saved Israel that day out of the hand of the Egyptians; and Israel saw the Egyptians dead upon the sea shore.

14:31    以色列人看見耶和華向埃及人所行的大事，就敬畏耶和華，又信服他和他的僕人摩西。
And Israel saw that great work which the LORD did upon the Egyptians: and the people feared the LORD, and believed the LORD, and his servant Moses.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


15:1    那時，摩西和以色列人向耶和華唱歌說，我要向耶和華歌唱，因他大大戰勝，將馬和騎馬的投在海中。
Then sang Moses and the children of Israel this song unto the LORD, and spake, saying, I will sing unto the LORD, for he hath triumphed gloriously: the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea.

15:2    耶和華是我的力量，我的詩歌，也成了我的拯救。這是我的神，我要讚美他，是我父親的神，我要尊崇他。
The LORD is my strength and song, and he is become my salvation: he is my God, and I will prepare him an habitation; my father's God, and I will exalt him.

15:3    耶和華是戰士，他的名是耶和華。
The LORD is a man of war: the LORD is his name.

15:4    法老的車輛，軍兵，耶和華已拋在海中，他特選的軍長都沉於紅海。
Pharaoh's chariots and his host hath he cast into the sea: his chosen captains also are drowned in the Red sea.

15:5    深水淹沒他們，他們如同石頭墜到深處。
The depths have covered them: they sank into the bottom as a stone.

15:6    耶和華阿，你的右手施展能力，顯出榮耀，耶和華阿，你的右手摔碎仇敵。
Thy right hand, O LORD, is become glorious in power: thy right hand, O LORD, hath dashed in pieces the enemy.

15:7    你大發威嚴，推翻那些起來攻擊你的，你發出烈怒如火，燒滅他們像燒碎一樣。
And in the greatness of thine excellency thou hast overthrown them that rose up against thee: thou sentest forth thy wrath, which consumed them as stubble.

15:8    你發鼻中的氣，水便聚起成堆，大水直立如壘，海中的深水凝結。
And with the blast of thy nostrils the waters were gathered together, the floods stood upright as an heap, and the depths were congealed in the heart of the sea.

15:9    仇敵說，我要追趕，我要追上，我要分擄物，我要在他們身上稱我的心願。我要拔出刀來，親手殺滅他們。
The enemy said, I will pursue, I will overtake, I will divide the spoil; my lust shall be satisfied upon them; I will draw my sword, my hand shall destroy them.

15:10    你叫風一吹，海就把他們淹沒，他們如鉛沉在大水之中。
Thou didst blow with thy wind, the sea covered them: they sank as lead in the mighty waters.

15:11    耶和華阿，眾神之中，誰能像你。誰能像你，至聖至榮，可頌可畏，施行奇事。
Who is like unto thee, O LORD, among the gods? who is like thee, glorious in holiness, fearful in praises, doing wonders?

15:12    你伸出右手，地便吞滅他們。
Thou stretchedst out thy right hand, the earth swallowed them.

15:13    你憑慈愛，領了你所贖的百姓，你憑能力，引他們到了你的聖所。
Thou in thy mercy hast led forth the people which thou hast redeemed: thou hast guided them in thy strength unto thy holy habitation.

15:14    外邦人聽見就發顫，疼痛抓住非利士的居民。
The people shall hear, and be afraid: sorrow shall take hold on the inhabitants of Palestina.

15:15    那時，以東的族長驚惶，摩押的英雄被戰兢抓住，迦南的居民心都消化了。
Then the dukes of Edom shall be amazed; the mighty men of Moab, trembling shall take hold upon them; all the inhabitants of Canaan shall melt away.

15:16    驚駭恐懼臨到他們。耶和華阿，因你膀臂的大能，他們如石頭寂然不動，等候你的百姓過去，等候你所贖的百姓過去。
Fear and dread shall fall upon them; by the greatness of thine arm they shall be as still as a stone; till thy people pass over, O LORD, till the people pass over, which thou hast purchased.

15:17    你要將他們領進去，栽於你產業的山上。耶和華阿，就是你為自己所造的住處，主阿，就是你手所建立的聖所。
Thou shalt bring them in, and plant them in the mountain of thine inheritance, in the place, O LORD, which thou hast made for thee to dwell in, in the Sanctuary, O LORD, which thy hands have established.

15:18    耶和華必作王，直到永永遠遠。
The LORD shall reign for ever and ever.

15:19    法老的馬匹，車輛，和馬兵下到海中，耶和華使海水迴流，淹沒他們，惟有以色列人在海中走乾地。
For the horse of Pharaoh went in with his chariots and with his horsemen into the sea, and the LORD brought again the waters of the sea upon them; but the children of Israel went on dry land in the midst of the sea.

15:20    亞倫的姊姊，女先知米利暗，手裡拿著鼓，眾婦女也跟她出去拿鼓跳舞。
And Miriam the prophetess, the sister of Aaron, took a timbrel in her hand; and all the women went out after her with timbrels and with dances.

15:21    米利暗應聲說，你們要歌頌耶和華，因他大大戰勝，將馬和騎馬的投在海中。
And Miriam answered them, Sing ye to the LORD, for he hath triumphed gloriously; the horse and his rider hath he thrown into the sea.

15:22    摩西領以色列人從紅海往前行，到了書珥的曠野，在曠野走了三天，找不著水。
So Moses brought Israel from the Red sea, and they went out into the wilderness of Shur; and they went three days in the wilderness, and found no water.

15:23    到了瑪拉，不能喝那裡的水，因為水苦，所以那地名叫瑪拉。
And when they came to Marah, they could not drink of the waters of Marah, for they were bitter: therefore the name of it was called Marah.

15:24    百姓就向摩西發怨言，說，我們喝什麼呢。
And the people murmured against Moses, saying, What shall we drink?

15:25    摩西呼求耶和華，耶和華指示他一棵樹。他把樹丟在水裡，水就變甜了。耶和華在那裡為他們定了律例，典章，在那裡試驗他們，
And he cried unto the LORD; and the LORD shewed him a tree, which when he had cast into the waters, the waters were made sweet: there he made for them a statute and an ordinance, and there he proved them,

15:26    又說，你若留意聽耶和華你神的話，又行我眼中看為正的事，留心聽我的誡命，守我一切的律例，我就不將所加與埃及人的疾病加在你身上，因為我耶和華是醫治你的。
And said, If thou wilt diligently hearken to the voice of the LORD thy God, and wilt do that which is right in his sight, and wilt give ear to his commandments, and keep all his statutes, I will put none of these diseases upon thee, which I have brought upon the Egyptians: for I am the LORD that healeth thee.

15:27    他們到了以琳，在那裡有十二股水泉，七十棵棕樹，他們就在那裡的水邊安營。
And they came to Elim, where were twelve wells of water, and threescore and ten palm trees: and they encamped there by the waters.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


16:1    以色列全會眾從以琳起行，在出埃及後第二個月十五日到了以琳和西奈中間，汛的曠野。
And they took their journey from Elim, and all the congregation of the children of Israel came unto the wilderness of Sin, which is between Elim and Sinai, on the fifteenth day of the second month after their departing out of the land of Egypt.

16:2    以色列全會眾在曠野向摩西，亞倫發怨言，
And the whole congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and Aaron in the wilderness:



16:3    說，巴不得我們早死在埃及地，耶和華的手下，那時我們坐在肉鍋旁邊，吃得飽足。你們將我們領出來，到這曠野，是要叫這全會眾都餓死阿。
And the children of Israel said unto them, Would to God we had died by the hand of the LORD in the land of Egypt, when we sat by the flesh pots, and when we did eat bread to the full; for ye have brought us forth into this wilderness, to kill this whole assembly with hunger.

16:4    耶和華對摩西說，我要將糧食從天降給你們。百姓可以出去，每天收每天的分，我好試驗他們遵不遵我的法度。
Then said the LORD unto Moses, Behold, I will rain bread from heaven for you; and the people shall go out and gather a certain rate every day, that I may prove them, whether they will walk in my law, or no.

16:5    到第六天，他們要把所收進來的預備好了，比每天所收的多一倍。
And it shall come to pass, that on the sixth day they shall prepare that which they bring in; and it shall be twice as much as they gather daily.

16:6    摩西，亞倫對以色列眾人說，到了晚上，你們要知道是耶和華將你們從埃及地領出來的。
And Moses and Aaron said unto all the children of Israel, At even, then ye shall know that the LORD hath brought you out from the land of Egypt:

16:7    早晨，你們要看見耶和華的榮耀，因為耶和華聽見你們向他所發的怨言了。我們算什麼，你們竟向我們發怨言呢。
And in the morning, then ye shall see the glory of the LORD; for that he heareth your murmurings against the LORD: and what are we, that ye murmur against us?

16:8    摩西又說，耶和華晚上必給你們肉吃，早晨必給你們食物得飽，因為你們向耶和華髮的怨言，他都聽見了。我們算什麼，你們的怨言不是向我們發的，乃是向耶和華髮的。
And Moses said, This shall be, when the LORD shall give you in the evening flesh to eat, and in the morning bread to the full; for that the LORD heareth your murmurings which ye murmur against him: and what are we? your murmurings are not against us, but against the LORD.

16:9    摩西對亞倫說，你告訴以色列全會眾說，你們就近耶和華面前，因為他已經聽見你們的怨言了。
And Moses spake unto Aaron, Say unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, Come near before the LORD: for he hath heard your murmurings.

16:10    亞倫正對以色列全會眾說話的時候，他們向曠野觀看，不料，耶和華的榮光在雲中顯現。
And it came to pass, as Aaron spake unto the whole congregation of the children of Israel, that they looked toward the wilderness, and, behold, the glory of the LORD appeared in the cloud.

16:11    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

16:12    我已經聽見以色列人的怨言。你告訴他們說，到黃昏的時候，你們要吃肉，早晨必有食物得飽，你們就知道我是耶和華你們的神。
I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel: speak unto them, saying, At even ye shall eat flesh, and in the morning ye shall be filled with bread; and ye shall know that I am the LORD your God.

16:13    到了晚上，有鵪鶉飛來，遮滿了營，早晨在營四圍的地上有露水。
And it came to pass, that at even the quails came up, and covered the camp: and in the morning the dew lay round about the host.

16:14    露水上升之後，不料，野地面上有如白霜的小圓物。
And when the dew that lay was gone up, behold, upon the face of the wilderness there lay a small round thing, as small as the hoar frost on the ground.

16:15    以色列人看見，不知道是什麼，就彼此對問說，這是什麼呢。摩西對他們說，這就是耶和華給你們吃的食物。
And when the children of Israel saw it, they said one to another, It is manna: for they wist not what it was. And Moses said unto them, This is the bread which the LORD hath given you to eat.

16:16    耶和華所吩咐的是這樣，你們要按著各人的飯量，為帳棚裡的人，按著人數收起來，各拿一俄梅珥。
This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, Gather of it every man according to his eating, an omer for every man, according to the number of your persons; take ye every man for them which are in his tents.

16:17    以色列人就這樣行，有多收的，有少收的。
And the children of Israel did so, and gathered, some more, some less.

16:18    及至用俄梅珥量一量，多收的也沒有餘，少收的也沒有缺，各人按著自己的飯量收取。
And when they did mete it with an omer, he that gathered much had nothing over, and he that gathered little had no lack; they gathered every man according to his eating.

16:19    摩西對他們說，所收的，不許什麼人留到早晨。
And Moses said, Let no man leave of it till the morning.

16:20    然而他們不聽摩西的話，內中有留到早晨的，就生蟲變臭了，摩西便向他們發怒。
Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto Moses; but some of them left of it until the morning, and it bred worms, and stank: and Moses was wroth with them.

16:21    他們每日早晨，按著各人的飯量收取，日頭一發熱，就消化了。
And they gathered it every morning, every man according to his eating: and when the sun waxed hot, it melted.

16:22    到第六天，他們收了雙倍的食物，每人兩俄梅珥。會眾的官長來告訴摩西，
And it came to pass, that on the sixth day they gathered twice as much bread, two omers for one man: and all the rulers of the congregation came and told Moses.

16:23    摩西對他們說，耶和華這樣說，明天是聖安息日，是向耶和華守的聖安息日。你們要烤的就烤了，要煮的就煮了，所剩下的都留到早晨。
And he said unto them, This is that which the LORD hath said, To morrow is the rest of the holy sabbath unto the LORD: bake that which ye will bake to day, and seethe that ye will seethe; and that which remaineth over lay up for you to be kept until the morning.

16:24    他們就照摩西的吩咐留到早晨，也不臭，裡頭也沒有蟲子。
And they laid it up till the morning, as Moses bade: and it did not stink, neither was there any worm therein.

16:25    摩西說，你們今天吃這個吧，因為今天是向耶和華守的安息日，你們在田野必找不著了。
And Moses said, Eat that to day; for to day is a sabbath unto the LORD: to day ye shall not find it in the field.

16:26    六天可以收取，第七天乃是安息日，那一天必沒有了。
Six days ye shall gather it; but on the seventh day, which is the sabbath, in it there shall be none.

16:27    第七天，百姓中有人出去收，什麼也找不著。
And it came to pass, that there went out some of the people on the seventh day for to gather, and they found none.

16:28    耶和華對摩西說，你們不肯守我的誡命和律法，要到幾時呢。
And the LORD said unto Moses, How long refuse ye to keep my commandments and my laws?

16:29    你們看，耶和華既將安息日賜給你們，所以第六天他賜給你們兩天的食物，第七天各人要住在自己的地方，不許什麼人出去。
See, for that the LORD hath given you the sabbath, therefore he giveth you on the sixth day the bread of two days; abide ye every man in his place, let no man go out of his place on the seventh day.

16:30    於是百姓第七天安息了。
So the people rested on the seventh day.

16:31    這食物，以色列家叫嗎哪，樣子像芫荽子，顏色是白的，滋味如同攙蜜的薄餅。
And the house of Israel called the name thereof Manna: and it was like coriander seed, white; and the taste of it was like wafers made with honey.

16:32    摩西說，耶和華所吩咐的是這樣，要將一滿俄梅珥（俄梅珥乃伊法十分之一）嗎哪留到世世代代，使後人可以看見我當日將你們領出埃及地，在曠野所給你們吃的食物。
And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commandeth, Fill an omer of it to be kept for your generations; that they may see the bread wherewith I have fed you in the wilderness, when I brought you forth from the land of Egypt.

16:33    摩西對亞倫說，你拿一個罐子，盛一滿俄梅珥嗎哪，存在耶和華面前，要留到世世代代。
And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a pot, and put an omer full of manna therein, and lay it up before the LORD, to be kept for your generations.

16:34    耶和華怎嗎吩咐摩西，亞倫就怎嗎行，把嗎哪放在法櫃前存留。
As the LORD commanded Moses, so Aaron laid it up before the Testimony, to be kept.

16:35    以色列人吃嗎哪共四十年，直到進了有人居住之地，就是迦南的境界。
And the children of Israel did eat manna forty years, until they came to a land inhabited; they did eat manna, until they came unto the borders of the land of Canaan.

16:36    *
Now an omer is the tenth part of an ephah.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


17:1    以色列全會眾都遵耶和華的吩咐，按著站口從汛的曠野往前行，在利非訂安營。百姓沒有水喝，
And all the congregation of the children of Israel journeyed from the wilderness of Sin, after their journeys, according to the commandment of the LORD, and pitched in Rephidim: and there was no water for the people to drink.

17:2    所以與摩西爭鬧，說，給我們水喝吧。摩西對他們說，你們為什麼與我爭鬧，為什麼試探耶和華呢。
Wherefore the people did chide with Moses, and said, Give us water that we may drink. And Moses said unto them, Why chide ye with me? wherefore do ye tempt the LORD?



17:3    百姓在那裡甚渴，要喝水，就向摩西發怨言，說，你為什麼將我們從埃及領出來，使我們和我們的兒女並牲畜都渴死呢。
And the people thirsted there for water; and the people murmured against Moses, and said, Wherefore is this that thou hast brought us up out of Egypt, to kill us and our children and our cattle with thirst?

17:4    摩西就呼求耶和華說，我向這百姓怎樣行呢，他們幾乎要拿石頭打死我。
And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, What shall I do unto this people? they be almost ready to stone me.

17:5    耶和華對摩西說，你手裡拿著你先前擊打河水的杖，帶領以色列的幾個長老，從百姓面前走過去。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go on before the people, and take with thee of the elders of Israel; and thy rod, wherewith thou smotest the river, take in thine hand, and go.

17:6    我必在何烈的磐石那裡，站在你面前。你要擊打磐石，從磐石裡必有水流出來，使百姓可以喝。摩西就在以色列的長老眼前赦樣行了。
Behold, I will stand before thee there upon the rock in Horeb; and thou shalt smite the rock, and there shall come water out of it, that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel.

17:7    他給那地方起名叫瑪撒（就是試探的意思），又叫米利巴（就是爭鬧的意思），因以色列人爭鬧，又因他們試探耶和華，說，耶和華是在我們中間不是。
And he called the name of the place Massah, and Meribah, because of the chiding of the children of Israel, and because they tempted the LORD, saying, Is the LORD among us, or not?

17:8    那時，亞瑪力人來在利非訂，和以色列人爭戰。
Then came Amalek, and fought with Israel in Rephidim.

17:9    摩西對約書亞說，你為我們選出人來，出去和亞瑪力人爭戰。明天我手裡要拿著神的杖，站在山頂上。
And Moses said unto Joshua, Choose us out men, and go out, fight with Amalek: to morrow I will stand on the top of the hill with the rod of God in mine hand.

17:10    於是約書亞照著摩西對他所說的話行，和亞瑪力人爭戰。摩西，亞倫，與戶珥都上了山頂。
So Joshua did as Moses had said to him, and fought with Amalek: and Moses, Aaron, and Hur went up to the top of the hill.

17:11    摩西何時舉手，以色列人就得勝，何時垂手，亞瑪力人就得勝。
And it came to pass, when Moses held up his hand, that Israel prevailed: and when he let down his hand, Amalek prevailed.

17:12    但摩西的手發沉，他們就搬石頭來，放在他以下，他就坐在上面。亞倫與戶珥扶著他的手，一個在這邊，一個在那邊，他的手就穩住，直到日落的時候。
But Moses' hands were heavy; and they took a stone, and put it under him, and he sat thereon; and Aaron and Hur stayed up his hands, the one on the one side, and the other on the other side; and his hands were steady until the going down of the sun.

17:13    約書亞用刀殺了亞瑪力王和他的百姓。
And Joshua discomfited Amalek and his people with the edge of the sword.

17:14    耶和華對摩西說，我要將亞瑪力的名號從天下全然塗抹了，你要將這話寫在書上作紀念，又念給約書亞聽。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Write this for a memorial in a book, and rehearse it in the ears of Joshua: for I will utterly put out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven.

17:15    摩西築了一座壇，起名叫耶和華尼西（就是耶和華是我旌旗的意思），
And Moses built an altar, and called the name of it Jehovahnissi:

17:16    又說，耶和華已經起了誓，必世世代代和亞瑪力人爭戰。
For he said, Because the LORD hath sworn that the LORD will have war with Amalek from generation to generation.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


18:1    摩西的岳父，米甸祭司葉忒羅，聽見神為摩西和神的百姓以色列所行的一切事，就是耶和華將以色列從埃及領出來的事，
When Jethro, the priest of Midian, Moses' father in law, heard of all that God had done for Moses, and for Israel his people, and that the LORD had brought Israel out of Egypt;

18:2    便帶著摩西的妻子西坡拉，就是摩西從前打發回去的，
Then Jethro, Moses' father in law, took Zipporah, Moses' wife, after he had sent her back,

18:3    又帶著西坡拉的兩個兒子，一個名叫革舜，因為摩西說，我在外邦作了寄居的，
And her two sons; of which the name of the one was Gershom; for he said, I have been an alien in a strange land:

18:4    一個名叫以利以謝，因為他說，我父親的神幫助了我，救我脫離法老的刀。
And the name of the other was Eliezer; for the God of my father, said he, was mine help, and delivered me from the sword of Pharaoh:

18:5    摩西的岳父葉忒羅帶著摩西的妻子和兩個兒子來到神的山，就是摩西在曠野安營的地方。
And Jethro, Moses' father in law, came with his sons and his wife unto Moses into the wilderness, where he encamped at the mount of God:

18:6    他對摩西說，我是你岳父葉忒羅，帶著你的妻子和兩個兒子來到你這裡。
And he said unto Moses, I thy father in law Jethro am come unto thee, and thy wife, and her two sons with her.

18:7    摩西迎接他的岳父，向他下拜，與他親嘴，彼此問安，都進了帳棚。
And Moses went out to meet his father in law, and did obeisance, and kissed him; and they asked each other of their welfare; and they came into the tent.

18:8    摩西將耶和華為以色列的緣故向法老和埃及人所行的一切事，以及路上所遭遇的一切艱難，並耶和華怎樣搭救他們，都述說與他岳父聽。
And Moses told his father in law all that the LORD had done unto Pharaoh and to the Egyptians for Israel's sake, and all the travail that had come upon them by the way, and how the LORD delivered them.

18:9    葉忒羅因耶和華待以色列的一切好處，就是拯救他們脫離埃及人的手，便甚歡喜。
And Jethro rejoiced for all the goodness which the LORD had done to Israel, whom he had delivered out of the hand of the Egyptians.

18:10    葉忒羅說，耶和華是應當稱頌的，他救了你們脫離埃及人和法老的手，將這百姓從埃及人的手下救出來。
And Jethro said, Blessed be the LORD, who hath delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of Pharaoh, who hath delivered the people from under the hand of the Egyptians.

18:11    我現今在埃及人向這百姓發狂傲的事上得知，耶和華比萬神都大。
Now I know that the LORD is greater than all gods: for in the thing wherein they dealt proudly he was above them.

18:12    摩西的岳父葉忒羅把燔祭和平安祭獻給神。亞倫和以色列的眾長老都來了，與摩西的岳父在神面前吃飯。
And Jethro, Moses' father in law, took a burnt offering and sacrifices for God: and Aaron came, and all the elders of Israel, to eat bread with Moses' father in law before God.

18:13    第二天，摩西坐著審判百姓，百姓從早到晚都站在摩西的左右。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses sat to judge the people: and the people stood by Moses from the morning unto the evening.

18:14    摩西的岳父看見他向百姓所作的一切事，就說，你向百姓作的是什麼事呢，你為什麼獨自坐著，眾百姓從早到晚都站在你的左右呢。
And when Moses' father in law saw all that he did to the people, he said, What is this thing that thou doest to the people? why sittest thou thyself alone, and all the people stand by thee from morning unto even?

18:15    摩西對岳父說，這是因百姓到我這裡來求問神。
And Moses said unto his father in law, Because the people come unto me to enquire of God:

18:16    他們有事的時候就到我這裡來，我便在兩造之間施行審判，我又叫他們知道神的律例和法度。
When they have a matter, they come unto me; and I judge between one and another, and I do make them know the statutes of God, and his laws.

18:17    摩西的岳父說，你這作的不好。
And Moses' father in law said unto him, The thing that thou doest is not good.

18:18    你和這些百姓必都疲憊，因為這事太重，你獨自一人辦理不了。
Thou wilt surely wear away, both thou, and this people that is with thee: for this thing is too heavy for thee; thou art not able to perform it thyself alone.

18:19    現在你要聽我的話。我為你出個主意，願神與你同在。你要替百姓到神面前，將案件奏告神，
Hearken now unto my voice, I will give thee counsel, and God shall be with thee: Be thou for the people to God-ward, that thou mayest bring the causes unto God:

18:20    又要將律例和法度教訓他們，指示他們當行的道，當作的事，
And thou shalt teach them ordinances and laws, and shalt shew them the way wherein they must walk, and the work that they must do.

18:21    並要從百姓中揀選有才能的人，就是敬畏神，誠實無妄，恨不義之財的人，派他們作千夫長，百夫長，五十夫長，十夫長，管理百姓，
Moreover thou shalt provide out of all the people able men, such as fear God, men of truth, hating covetousness; and place such over them, to be rulers of thousands, and rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens:

18:22    叫他們隨時審判百姓，大事都要呈到你這裡，小事他們自己可以審判。這樣，你就輕省些，他們也可以同當此任。
And let them judge the people at all seasons: and it shall be, that every great matter they shall bring unto thee, but every small matter they shall judge: so shall it be easier for thyself, and they shall bear the burden with thee.

18:23    你若這樣行，神也這樣吩咐你，你就能受得住，這百姓也都平平安安歸回他們的住處。
If thou shalt do this thing, and God command thee so, then thou shalt be able to endure, and all this people shall also go to their place in peace.

18:24    於是，摩西聽從他岳父的話，按著他所說的去行。
So Moses hearkened to the voice of his father in law, and did all that he had said.

18:25    摩西從以色列人中揀選了有才能的人，立他們為百姓的首領，作千夫長，百夫長，五十夫長，十夫長。
And Moses chose able men out of all Israel, and made them heads over the people, rulers of thousands, rulers of hundreds, rulers of fifties, and rulers of tens.

18:26    他們隨時審判百姓，有難斷的案件就呈到摩西那裡，但各樣小事他們自己審判。
And they judged the people at all seasons: the hard causes they brought unto Moses, but every small matter they judged themselves.

18:27    此後，摩西讓他的岳父去，他就往本地去了。
And Moses let his father in law depart; and he went his way into his own land.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


19:1    以色列人出埃及地以後，滿了三個月的那一天，就來到西奈的曠野。
In the third month, when the children of Israel were gone forth out of the land of Egypt, the same day came they into the wilderness of Sinai.

19:2    他們離了利非訂，來到西奈的曠野，就在那裡的山下安營。
For they were departed from Rephidim, and were come to the desert of Sinai, and had pitched in the wilderness; and there Israel camped before the mount.

19:3    摩西到神那裡，耶和華從山上呼喚他說，你要這樣告訴雅各家，曉諭以色列人說，
And Moses went up unto God, and the LORD called unto him out of the mountain, saying, Thus shalt thou say to the house of Jacob, and tell the children of Israel;

19:4    我向埃及人所行的事，你們都看見了，且看見我如鷹將你們背在翅膀上，帶來歸我。
Ye have seen what I did unto the Egyptians, and how I bare you on eagles' wings, and brought you unto myself.

19:5    如今你們若實在聽從我的話，遵守我的約，就要在萬民中作屬我的子民，因為全地都是我的。
Now therefore, if ye will obey my voice indeed, and keep my covenant, then ye shall be a peculiar treasure unto me above all people: for all the earth is mine:

19:6    你們要歸我作祭司的國度，為聖潔的國民。這些話你要告訴以色列人。
And ye shall be unto me a kingdom of priests, and an holy nation. These are the words which thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel.

19:7    摩西去召了民間的長老來，將耶和華所吩咐他的話都在他們面前陳明。
And Moses came and called for the elders of the people, and laid before their faces all these words which the LORD commanded him.

19:8    百姓都同聲回答說，凡耶和華所說的，我們都要遵行。摩西就將百姓的話回覆耶和華。
And all the people answered together, and said, All that the LORD hath spoken we will do. And Moses returned the words of the people unto the LORD.

19:9    耶和華對摩西說，我要在密雲中臨到你那裡，叫百姓在我與你說話的時候可以聽見，也可以永遠信你了。於是，摩西將百姓的話奏告耶和華。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Lo, I come unto thee in a thick cloud, that the people may hear when I speak with thee, and believe thee for ever. And Moses told the words of the people unto the LORD.

19:10    耶和華又對摩西說，你往百姓那裡去，叫他們今天明天自潔，又叫他們洗衣服。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go unto the people, and sanctify them to day and to morrow, and let them wash their clothes,

19:11    到第三天要預備好了，因為第三天耶和華要在眾百姓眼前降臨在西奈山上。
And be ready against the third day: for the third day the LORD will come down in the sight of all the people upon mount Sinai.



19:12    你要在山的四圍給百姓定界限，說，你們當謹慎，不可上山去，也不可摸山的邊界，凡摸這山的，必要治死他。
And thou shalt set bounds unto the people round about, saying, Take heed to yourselves, that ye go not up into the mount, or touch the border of it: whosoever toucheth the mount shall be surely put to death:

19:13    不可用手摸他，必用石頭打死，或用箭射透，無論是人是牲畜，都不得活。到角聲拖長的時候，他們才可到山根來。
There shall not an hand touch it, but he shall surely be stoned, or shot through; whether it be beast or man, it shall not live: when the trumpet soundeth long, they shall come up to the mount.

19:14    摩西下山往百姓那裡去，叫他們自潔，他們就洗衣服。
And Moses went down from the mount unto the people, and sanctified the people; and they washed their clothes.

19:15    他對百姓說，到第三天要預備好了。不可親近女人。
And he said unto the people, Be ready against the third day: come not at your wives.

19:16    到了第三天早晨，在山上有雷轟，閃電，和密雲，並且角聲甚大，營中的百姓盡都發顫。
And it came to pass on the third day in the morning, that there were thunders and lightnings, and a thick cloud upon the mount, and the voice of the trumpet exceeding loud; so that all the people that was in the camp trembled.

19:17    摩西率領百姓出營迎接神，都站在山下。
And Moses brought forth the people out of the camp to meet with God; and they stood at the nether part of the mount.

19:18    西奈全山冒煙，因為耶和華在火中降於山上。山的煙氣上騰，如燒窯一般，遍山大大地震動。
And mount Sinai was altogether on a smoke, because the LORD descended upon it in fire: and the smoke thereof ascended as the smoke of a furnace, and the whole mount quaked greatly.

19:19    角聲漸漸地高而又高，摩西就說話，神有聲音答應他。
And when the voice of the trumpet sounded long, and waxed louder and louder, Moses spake, and God answered him by a voice.

19:20    耶和華降臨在西奈山頂上，耶和華召摩西上山頂，摩西就上去。
And the LORD came down upon mount Sinai, on the top of the mount: and the LORD called Moses up to the top of the mount; and Moses went up.

19:21    耶和華對摩西說，你下去囑咐百姓，不可闖過來到我面前觀看，恐怕他們有多人死亡，
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go down, charge the people, lest they break through unto the LORD to gaze, and many of them perish.

19:22    又叫親近我的祭司自潔，恐怕我忽然出來擊殺他們。
And let the priests also, which come near to the LORD, sanctify themselves, lest the LORD break forth upon them.

19:23    摩西對耶和華說，百姓不能上西奈山，因為你已經囑咐我們說，要在山的四圍定界限，叫山成聖。
And Moses said unto the LORD, The people cannot come up to mount Sinai: for thou chargedst us, saying, Set bounds about the mount, and sanctify it.

19:24    耶和華對他說，下去吧，你要和亞倫一同上來，只是祭司和百姓不可闖過來上到我面前，恐怕我忽然出來擊殺他們。
And the LORD said unto him, Away, get thee down, and thou shalt come up, thou, and Aaron with thee: but let not the priests and the people break through to come up unto the LORD, lest he break forth upon them.

19:25    於是摩西下到百姓那裡告訴他們。
So Moses went down unto the people, and spake unto them.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


20:1    神吩咐這一切的話說，
And God spake all these words, saying,

20:2    我是耶和華你的神，曾將你從埃及地為奴之家領出來。
I am the LORD thy God, which have brought thee out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondage.

20:3    除了我以外，你不可有別的神。
Thou shalt have no other gods before me.

20:4    不可為自己雕刻偶像，也不可作什麼形像彷佛上天，下地，和地底下，水中的百物。
Thou shalt not make unto thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the water under the earth:

20:5    不可跪拜那些像，也不可事奉它，因為我耶和華你的神是忌邪的神。恨我的，我必追討他的罪，自父及子，直到三四代，
Thou shalt not bow down thyself to them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me;

20:6    愛我，守我誡命的，我必向他們發慈愛，直到千代。
And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me, and keep my commandments.

20:7    不可妄稱耶和華你神的名，因為妄稱耶和華名的，耶和華必不以他為無罪。
Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain; for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.

20:8    當記念安息日，守為聖日。
Remember the sabbath day, to keep it holy.

20:9    六日要勞碌作你一切的工，
Six days shalt thou labour, and do all thy work:

20:10    但第七日是向耶和華你神當守的安息日。這一日你和你的兒女，僕婢，牲畜，並你城裡寄居的客旅，無論何工都不可作，
But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates:



20:11    因為六日之內，耶和華造天，地，海，和其中的萬物，第七日便安息，所以耶和華賜福與安息日，定為聖日。
For in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that in them is, and rested the seventh day: wherefore the LORD blessed the sabbath day, and hallowed it.

20:12    當孝敬父母，使你的日子在耶和華你神所賜你的地上得以長久。
Honour thy father and thy mother: that thy days may be long upon the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

20:13    不可殺人。
Thou shalt not kill.

20:14    不可姦淫。
Thou shalt not commit adultery.

20:15    不可偷盜。
Thou shalt not steal.

20:16    不可作假見證陷害人。
Thou shalt not bear false witness against thy neighbour.

20:17    不可貪戀人的房屋，也不可貪戀人的妻子，僕婢，牛驢，並他一切所有的。
Thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's house, thou shalt not covet thy neighbour's wife, nor his manservant, nor his maidservant, nor his ox, nor his ass, nor any thing that is thy neighbour's.

20:18    眾百姓見雷轟，閃電，角聲，山上冒煙，就都發顫，遠遠地站立。
And all the people saw the thunderings, and the lightnings, and the noise of the trumpet, and the mountain smoking: and when the people saw it, they removed, and stood afar off.

20:19    對摩西說，求你和我們說話，我們必聽，不要神和我們說話，恐怕我們死亡。
And they said unto Moses, Speak thou with us, and we will hear: but let not God speak with us, lest we die.

20:20    摩西對百姓說，不要懼怕，因為神降臨是要試驗你們，叫你們時常敬畏他，不致犯罪。
And Moses said unto the people, Fear not: for God is come to prove you, and that his fear may be before your faces, that ye sin not.

20:21    於是百姓遠遠地站立，摩西就挨近神所在的幽暗之中。
And the people stood afar off, and Moses drew near unto the thick darkness where God was.



20:22    耶和華對摩西說，你要向以色列人這樣說，你們自己看見我從天上和你們說話了。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Thus thou shalt say unto the children of Israel, Ye have seen that I have talked with you from heaven.

20:23    你們不可作什麼神像與我相配，不可為自己作金銀的神像。
Ye shall not make with me gods of silver, neither shall ye make unto you gods of gold.

20:24    你要為我築土壇，在上面以牛羊獻為燔祭和平安祭。凡記下我名的地方，我必到那裡賜福給你。
An altar of earth thou shalt make unto me, and shalt sacrifice thereon thy burnt offerings, and thy peace offerings, thy sheep, and thine oxen: in all places where I record my name I will come unto thee, and I will bless thee.

20:25    你若為我築一座石壇，不可用鑿成的石頭，因你在上頭一動傢俱，就把壇汙穢了。
And if thou wilt make me an altar of stone, thou shalt not build it of hewn stone: for if thou lift up thy tool upon it, thou hast polluted it.

20:26    你上我的壇，不可用臺階，免得露出你的下體來。
Neither shalt thou go up by steps unto mine altar, that thy nakedness be not discovered thereon.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


21:1    你在百姓面前所要立的典章是這樣，
Now these are the judgments which thou shalt set before them.

21:2    你若買希伯來人作奴僕，他必服事你六年，第七年他可以自由，白白地出去。
If thou buy an Hebrew servant, six years he shall serve: and in the seventh he shall go out free for nothing.

21:3    他若孤身來，就可以孤身去，他若有妻，他的妻就可以同他出去。
If he came in by himself, he shall go out by himself: if he were married, then his wife shall go out with him.

21:4    他主人若給他妻子，妻子給他生了兒子或女兒，妻子和兒女要歸主人，他要獨自出去。
If his master have given him a wife, and she have born him sons or daughters; the wife and her children shall be her master's, and he shall go out by himself.

21:5    倘或奴僕明說，我愛我的主人和我的妻子兒女，不願意自由出去。
And if the servant shall plainly say, I love my master, my wife, and my children; I will not go out free:

21:6    他的主人就要帶他到審判官那裡（審判官或作神下同），又要帶他到門前，靠近門框，用錐子穿他的耳朵，他就永遠服事主人。
Then his master shall bring him unto the judges; he shall also bring him to the door, or unto the door post; and his master shall bore his ear through with an aul; and he shall serve him for ever.

21:7    人若賣女兒作婢女，婢女不可像男僕那樣出去。
And if a man sell his daughter to be a maidservant, she shall not go out as the menservants do.

21:8    主人選定她歸自己，若不喜歡她，就要許她贖身，主人既然用詭詐待她，就沒有權柄賣給外邦人。
If she please not her master, who hath betrothed her to himself, then shall he let her be redeemed: to sell her unto a strange nation he shall have no power, seeing he hath dealt deceitfully with her.

21:9    主人若選定她給自己的兒子，就當待她如同女兒。
And if he have betrothed her unto his son, he shall deal with her after the manner of daughters.

21:10    若另娶一個，那女子的吃食，衣服，並好合的事，仍不可減少。
If he take him another wife; her food, her raiment, and her duty of marriage, shall he not diminish.

21:11    若不向她行這三樣，她就可以不用錢贖，白白地出去。
And if he do not these three unto her, then shall she go out free without money.

21:12    打人以致打死的，必要把他治死。
He that smiteth a man, so that he die, shall be surely put to death.

21:13    人若不是埋伏著殺人，乃是神交在他手中，我就設下一個地方，他可以往那裡逃跑。
And if a man lie not in wait, but God deliver him into his hand; then I will appoint thee a place whither he shall flee.

21:14    人若任意用詭計殺了他的鄰舍，就是逃到我的壇那裡，也當捉去把他治死。
But if a man come presumptuously upon his neighbour, to slay him with guile; thou shalt take him from mine altar, that he may die.

21:15    打父母的，必要把他治死。
And he that smiteth his father, or his mother, shall be surely put to death.

21:16    拐帶人口，或是把人賣了，或是留在他手下，必要把他治死。
And he that stealeth a man, and selleth him, or if he be found in his hand, he shall surely be put to death.

21:17    咒罵父母的，必要把他治死。
And he that curseth his father, or his mother, shall surely be put to death.

21:18    人若彼此相爭，這個用石頭或是拳頭打那個，尚且不至於死，不過躺臥在床，
And if men strive together, and one smite another with a stone, or with his fist, and he die not, but keepeth his bed:

21:19    若再能起來扶杖而出，那打他的可算無罪，但要將他耽誤的工夫用錢賠補，並要將他全然醫好。
If he rise again, and walk abroad upon his staff, then shall he that smote him be quit: only he shall pay for the loss of his time, and shall cause him to be thoroughly healed.

21:20    人若用棍子打奴僕或婢女，立時死在他的手下，他必要受刑。
And if a man smite his servant, or his maid, with a rod, and he die under his hand; he shall be surely punished.

21:21    若過一兩天才死，就可以不受刑，因為是用錢買的。
Notwithstanding, if he continue a day or two, he shall not be punished: for he is his money.

21:22    人若彼此爭鬥，傷害有孕的婦人，甚至墜胎，隨後卻無別害，那傷害她的，總要按婦人的丈夫所要的，照審判官所斷的，受罰。
If men strive, and hurt a woman with child, so that her fruit depart from her, and yet no mischief follow: he shall be surely punished, according as the woman's husband will lay upon him; and he shall pay as the judges determine.

21:23    若有別害，就要以命償命，
And if any mischief follow, then thou shalt give life for life,

21:24    以眼還眼，以牙還牙，以手還手，以腳還腳，
Eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot,

21:25    以烙還烙，以傷還傷，以打還打。
Burning for burning, wound for wound, stripe for stripe.

21:26    人若打壞了他奴僕或是婢女的一隻眼，就要因他的眼放他去得以自由。
And if a man smite the eye of his servant, or the eye of his maid, that it perish; he shall let him go free for his eye's sake.

21:27    若打掉了他奴僕或是婢女的一個牙，就要因他的牙放他去得以自由。
And if he smite out his manservant's tooth, or his maidservant's tooth; he shall let him go free for his tooth's sake.

21:28    牛若觸死男人或是女人，總要用石頭打死那牛，卻不可吃它的肉，牛的主人可算無罪。
If an ox gore a man or a woman, that they die: then the ox shall be surely stoned, and his flesh shall not be eaten; but the owner of the ox shall be quit.

21:29    倘若那牛素來是觸人的，有人報告了牛主，他竟不把牛拴著，以致把男人或是女人觸死，就要用石頭打死那牛，牛主也必治死。
But if the ox were wont to push with his horn in time past, and it hath been testified to his owner, and he hath not kept him in, but that he hath killed a man or a woman; the ox shall be stoned, and his owner also shall be put to death.

21:30    若罰他贖命的價銀，他必照所罰的贖他的命。
If there be laid on him a sum of money, then he shall give for the ransom of his life whatsoever is laid upon him.

21:31    牛無論觸了人的兒子或是女兒，必照這例辦理。
Whether he have gored a son, or have gored a daughter, according to this judgment shall it be done unto him.

21:32    牛若觸了奴僕或是婢女，必將銀子三十舍客勒給他們的主人，也要用石頭把牛打死。
If the ox shall push a manservant or a maidservant; he shall give unto their master thirty shekels of silver, and the ox shall be stoned.

21:33    人若敞著井口，或挖井不遮蓋，有牛或驢掉在裡頭，
And if a man shall open a pit, or if a man shall dig a pit, and not cover it, and an ox or an ass fall therein;

21:34    井主要拿錢賠還本主人，死牲畜要歸自己。
The owner of the pit shall make it good, and give money unto the owner of them; and the dead beast shall be his.

21:35    這人的牛若傷了那人的牛，以至於死，他們要賣了活牛，平分價值，也要平分死牛。
And if one man's ox hurt another's, that he die; then they shall sell the live ox, and divide the money of it; and the dead ox also they shall divide.

21:36    人若知道這牛素來是觸人的，主人竟不把牛拴著，他必要以牛還牛，死牛要歸自己。
Or if it be known that the ox hath used to push in time past, and his owner hath not kept him in; he shall surely pay ox for ox; and the dead shall be his own.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


22:1    人若偷牛或羊，無論是宰了，是賣了，他就要以五牛賠一牛，四羊賠一羊。
If a man shall steal an ox, or a sheep, and kill it, or sell it; he shall restore five oxen for an ox, and four sheep for a sheep.

22:2    人若遇見賊挖窟窿，把賊打了，以至於死，就不能為他有流血的罪。
If a thief be found breaking up, and be smitten that he die, there shall no blood be shed for him.

22:3    若太陽已經出來，就為他有流血的罪。賊若被拿，總要賠還。若他一無所有，就要被賣，頂他所偷的物。
If the sun be risen upon him, there shall be blood shed for him; for he should make full restitution; if he have nothing, then he shall be sold for his theft.

22:4    若他所偷的，或牛，或驢，或羊，仍在他手下存活，他就要加倍賠還。
If the theft be certainly found in his hand alive, whether it be ox, or ass, or sheep; he shall restore double.

22:5    人若在田間或在葡萄園裡放牲畜，任憑牲畜上別人的田裡去吃，就必拿自己田間上好的和葡萄園上好的賠還。
If a man shall cause a field or vineyard to be eaten, and shall put in his beast, and shall feed in another man's field; of the best of his own field, and of the best of his own vineyard, shall he make restitution.

22:6    若點火焚燒荊棘，以致將別人堆積的禾捆，站著的禾稼，或是田園，都燒盡了，那點火的必要賠還。
If fire break out, and catch in thorns, so that the stacks of corn, or the standing corn, or the field, be consumed therewith; he that kindled the fire shall surely make restitution.

22:7    人若將銀錢或傢俱交付鄰舍看守，這物從那人的家被偷去，若把賊找到了，賊要加倍賠還，
If a man shall deliver unto his neighbour money or stuff to keep, and it be stolen out of the man's house; if the thief be found, let him pay double.

22:8    若找不到賊，那家主必就近審判官，要看看他拿了原主的物件沒有。
If the thief be not found, then the master of the house shall be brought unto the judges, to see whether he have put his hand unto his neighbour's goods.

22:9    兩個人的案件，無論是為什麼過犯，或是為牛，為驢，為羊，為衣裳，或是為什麼失掉之物，有一人說，這是我的，兩造就要將案件稟告審判官，審判官定誰有罪，誰就要加倍賠還。
For all manner of trespass, whether it be for ox, for ass, for sheep, for raiment, or for any manner of lost thing, which another challengeth to be his, the cause of both parties shall come before the judges; and whom the judges shall condemn, he shall pay double unto his neighbour.

22:10    人若將驢，或牛，或羊，或別的牲畜，交付鄰舍看守，牲畜或死，或受傷，或被趕去，無人看見，
If a man deliver unto his neighbour an ass, or an ox, or a sheep, or any beast, to keep; and it die, or be hurt, or driven away, no man seeing it:

22:11    那看守的人要憑著耶和華起誓，手裡未曾拿鄰舍的物，本主就要吧休，看守的人不必賠還。
Then shall an oath of the LORD be between them both, that he hath not put his hand unto his neighbour's goods; and the owner of it shall accept thereof, and he shall not make it good.

22:12    牲畜若從看守的那裡被偷去，他就要賠還本主，
And if it be stolen from him, he shall make restitution unto the owner thereof.

22:13    若被野獸撕碎，看守的要帶來當作證據，所撕的不必賠還。
If it be torn in pieces, then let him bring it for witness, and he shall not make good that which was torn.

22:14    人若向鄰舍借什麼，所借的或受傷，或死，本主沒有同在一處，借的人總要賠還，
And if a man borrow ought of his neighbour, and it be hurt, or die, the owner thereof being not with it, he shall surely make it good.

22:15    若本主同在一處，他就不必賠還，若是僱的，也不必賠還，本是為僱價來的。
But if the owner thereof be with it, he shall not make it good: if it be an hired thing, it came for his hire.

22:16    人若引誘沒有受聘的處女，與她行淫，他總要交出聘禮，娶她為妻。
And if a man entice a maid that is not betrothed, and lie with her, he shall surely endow her to be his wife.

22:17    若女子的父親決不肯將女子給他，他就要按處女的聘禮，交出錢來。
If her father utterly refuse to give her unto him, he shall pay money according to the dowry of virgins.

22:18    行邪術的女人，不可容她存活。
Thou shalt not suffer a witch to live.

22:19    凡與獸淫合的，總要把他治死。
Whosoever lieth with a beast shall surely be put to death.

22:20    祭祀別神，不單單祭祀耶和華的，那人必要滅絕。
He that sacrificeth unto any god, save unto the LORD only, he shall be utterly destroyed.

22:21    不可虧負寄居的，也不可欺壓他，因為你們在埃及地也作過寄居的。
Thou shalt neither vex a stranger, nor oppress him: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.

22:22    不可苦待寡婦和孤兒，
Ye shall not afflict any widow, or fatherless child.

22:23    若是苦待他們一點，他們向我一哀求，我總要聽他們的哀聲，
If thou afflict them in any wise, and they cry at all unto me, I will surely hear their cry;

22:24    並要發烈怒，用刀殺你們，使你們的妻子為寡婦，兒女為孤兒。
And my wrath shall wax hot, and I will kill you with the sword; and your wives shall be widows, and your children fatherless.

22:25    我民中有貧窮人與你同住，你若借錢給他，不可如放債的向他取利。
If thou lend money to any of my people that is poor by thee, thou shalt not be to him as an usurer, neither shalt thou lay upon him usury.

22:26    你即或拿鄰舍的衣服作當頭，必在日落以先歸還他，
If thou at all take thy neighbour's raiment to pledge, thou shalt deliver it unto him by that the sun goeth down:

22:27    因他只有這一件當蓋頭，是他蓋身的衣服，若是沒有，他拿什麼睡覺呢，他哀求我，我就應允，因為我是有恩惠的。
For that is his covering only, it is his raiment for his skin: wherein shall he sleep? and it shall come to pass, when he crieth unto me, that I will hear; for I am gracious.

22:28    不可毀謗神，也不可毀謗你百姓的官長。
Thou shalt not revile the gods, nor curse the ruler of thy people.

22:29    你要從你莊稼中的谷和酒榨中滴出來的酒拿來獻上，不可遲延。你要將頭生的兒子歸給我。
Thou shalt not delay to offer the first of thy ripe fruits, and of thy liquors: the firstborn of thy sons shalt thou give unto me.

22:30    你牛羊頭生的，也要這樣，七天當跟著母，第八天要歸給我。
Likewise shalt thou do with thine oxen, and with thy sheep: seven days it shall be with his dam; on the eighth day thou shalt give it me.

22:31    你要在我面前為聖潔的人。因此，田間被野獸撕裂牲畜的肉，你們不可吃，要丟給狗吃。
And ye shall be holy men unto me: neither shall ye eat any flesh that is torn of beasts in the field; ye shall cast it to the dogs.







舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


23:1    不可隨夥佈散謠言，不可與惡人連手妄作見證。
Thou shalt not raise a false report: put not thine hand with the wicked to be an unrighteous witness.

23:2    不可隨眾行惡，不可在爭訟的事上隨眾偏行，作見證屈枉正直，
Thou shalt not follow a multitude to do evil; neither shalt thou speak in a cause to decline after many to wrest judgment:

23:3    也不可在爭訟的事上偏護窮人。
Neither shalt thou countenance a poor man in his cause.

23:4    若遇見你仇敵的牛或驢失迷了路，總要牽回來交給他。
If thou meet thine enemy's ox or his ass going astray, thou shalt surely bring it back to him again.

23:5    若看見恨你人的驢壓臥在重馱之下，不可走開，務要和驢主一同抬開重馱。
If thou see the ass of him that hateth thee lying under his burden, and wouldest forbear to help him, thou shalt surely help with him.

23:6    不可在窮人爭訟的事上屈枉正直。
Thou shalt not wrest the judgment of thy poor in his cause.

23:7    當遠離虛假的事。不可殺無辜和有義的人，因我必不以惡人為義。
Keep thee far from a false matter; and the innocent and righteous slay thou not: for I will not justify the wicked.

23:8    不可受賄賂，因為賄賂能叫明眼人變瞎了，又能顛倒義人的話。
And thou shalt take no gift: for the gift blindeth the wise, and perverteth the words of the righteous.

23:9    不可欺壓寄居的，因為你們在埃及地作過寄居的，知道寄居的心。
Also thou shalt not oppress a stranger: for ye know the heart of a stranger, seeing ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.

23:10    六年你要耕種田地，收藏土產，
And six years thou shalt sow thy land, and shalt gather in the fruits thereof:

23:11    只是第七年要叫地歇息，不耕不種，使你民中的窮人有吃的，他們所剩下的，野獸可以吃。你的葡萄園和橄欖園也要照樣辦理。
But the seventh year thou shalt let it rest and lie still; that the poor of thy people may eat: and what they leave the beasts of the field shall eat. In like manner thou shalt deal with thy vineyard, and with thy oliveyard.

23:12    六日你要作工，第七日要安息，使牛，驢可以歇息，並使你婢女的兒子和寄居的都可以舒暢。
Six days thou shalt do thy work, and on the seventh day thou shalt rest: that thine ox and thine ass may rest, and the son of thy handmaid, and the stranger, may be refreshed.

23:13    凡我對你們說的話，你們要謹守。別神的名，你不可提，也不可從你口中傳說。
And in all things that I have said unto you be circumspect: and make no mention of the name of other gods, neither let it be heard out of thy mouth.

23:14    一年三次，你要向我守節。
Three times thou shalt keep a feast unto me in the year.

23:15    你要守除酵節，照我所吩咐你的，在亞筆月內所定的日期，吃無酵餅七天。誰也不可空手朝見我，因為你是這月出了埃及。
Thou shalt keep the feast of unleavened bread: (thou shalt eat unleavened bread seven days, as I commanded thee, in the time appointed of the month Abib; for in it thou camest out from Egypt: and none shall appear before me empty:)

23:16    又要守收割節，所收的是你田間所種，勞碌得來初熟之物。並在年底收藏，要守收藏節。
And the feast of harvest, the firstfruits of thy labours, which thou hast sown in the field: and the feast of ingathering, which is in the end of the year, when thou hast gathered in thy labours out of the field.

23:17    一切的男丁要一年三次朝見主耶和華。
Three times in the year all thy males shall appear before the LORD God.

23:18    不可將我祭牲的血和有酵的餅一同獻上，也不可將我節上祭牲的脂油留到早晨。
Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leavened bread; neither shall the fat of my sacrifice remain until the morning.

23:19    地裡首先初熟之物要送到耶和華你神的殿。不可用山羊羔母的奶煮山羊羔。
The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring into the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.

23:20    看哪，我差遣使者在你前面，在路上保護你，領你到我所預備的地方去。
Behold, I send an Angel before thee, to keep thee in the way, and to bring thee into the place which I have prepared.

23:21    他是奉我名來的，你們要在他面前謹慎，聽從他的話，不可惹（惹或作違背）他，因為他必不赦免你們的過犯。
Beware of him, and obey his voice, provoke him not; for he will not pardon your transgressions: for my name is in him.

23:22    你若實在聽從他的話，照著我一切所說的去行，我就向你的仇敵作仇敵，向你的敵人作敵人。
But if thou shalt indeed obey his voice, and do all that I speak; then I will be an enemy unto thine enemies, and an adversary unto thine adversaries.

23:23    我的使者要在你前面行，領你到亞摩利人，赫人，比利洗人，迦南人，希未人，耶布斯人那裡去，我必將他們剪除。
For mine Angel shall go before thee, and bring thee in unto the Amorites, and the Hittites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites: and I will cut them off.

23:24    你不可跪拜他們的神，不可事奉他，也不可效法他們的行為，卻要把神像盡行拆毀，打碎他們的柱像。
Thou shalt not bow down to their gods, nor serve them, nor do after their works: but thou shalt utterly overthrow them, and quite break down their images.

23:25    你們要事奉耶和華你們的神，他必賜福與你的糧與你的水，也必從你們中間除去疾病。
And ye shall serve the LORD your God, and he shall bless thy bread, and thy water; and I will take sickness away from the midst of thee.

23:26    你境內必沒有墜胎的，不生產的。我要使你滿了你年日的數目。
There shall nothing cast their young, nor be barren, in thy land: the number of thy days I will fulfil.

23:27    凡你所到的地方，我要使那裡的眾民在你面前驚駭，擾亂，又要使你一切仇敵轉背逃跑。
I will send my fear before thee, and will destroy all the people to whom thou shalt come, and I will make all thine enemies turn their backs unto thee.

23:28    我要打發黃蜂飛在你前面，把希未人，迦南人，赫人攆出去。
And I will send hornets before thee, which shall drive out the Hivite, the Canaanite, and the Hittite, from before thee.

23:29    我不在一年之內將他們從你面前攆出去，恐怕地成為荒涼，野地的獸多起來害你。
I will not drive them out from before thee in one year; lest the land become desolate, and the beast of the field multiply against thee.

23:30    我要漸漸地將他們從你面前攆出去，等到你的人數加多，承受那地為業。
By little and little I will drive them out from before thee, until thou be increased, and inherit the land.

23:31    我要定你的境界，從紅海直到非利士海，又從曠野直到大河。我要將那地的居民交在你手中，你要將他們從你面前攆出去。
And I will set thy bounds from the Red sea even unto the sea of the Philistines, and from the desert unto the river: for I will deliver the inhabitants of the land into your hand; and thou shalt drive them out before thee.

23:32    不可和他們並他們的神立約。
Thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor with their gods.

23:33    他們不可住在你的地上，恐怕他們使你得罪我。你若事奉他們的神，這必成為你的網羅。
They shall not dwell in thy land, lest they make thee sin against me: for if thou serve their gods, it will surely be a snare unto thee.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


24:1    耶和華對摩西說，你和亞倫，拿答，亞比戶，並以色列長老中的七十人，都要上到我這裡來，遠遠地下拜。
And he said unto Moses, Come up unto the LORD, thou, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel; and worship ye afar off.

24:2    惟獨你可以親近耶和華，他們卻不可親近，百姓也不可和你一同上來。
And Moses alone shall come near the LORD: but they shall not come nigh; neither shall the people go up with him.

24:3    摩西下山，將耶和華的命令典章都述說與百姓聽。眾百姓齊聲說，耶和華所吩咐的，我們都必遵行。
And Moses came and told the people all the words of the LORD, and all the judgments: and all the people answered with one voice, and said, All the words which the LORD hath said will we do.

24:4    摩西將耶和華的命令都寫上。清早起來，在山下築一座壇，按以色列十二支派立十二根柱子，
And Moses wrote all the words of the LORD, and rose up early in the morning, and builded an altar under the hill, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel.

24:5    又打發以色列人中的少年人去獻燔祭，又向耶和華獻牛為平安祭。
And he sent young men of the children of Israel, which offered burnt offerings, and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen unto the LORD.

24:6    摩西將血一半盛在盆中，一半灑在壇上，
And Moses took half of the blood, and put it in basons; and half of the blood he sprinkled on the altar.

24:7    又將約書念給百姓聽。他們說，耶和華所吩咐的，我們都必遵行。
And he took the book of the covenant, and read in the audience of the people: and they said, All that the LORD hath said will we do, and be obedient.

24:8    摩西將血灑在百姓身上，說，你看，這是立約的血，是耶和華按這一切話與你們立約的憑據。
And Moses took the blood, and sprinkled it on the people, and said, Behold the blood of the covenant, which the LORD hath made with you concerning all these words.

24:9    摩西，亞倫，拿答，亞比戶，並以色列長老中的七十人，都上了山。
Then went up Moses, and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and seventy of the elders of Israel:

24:10    他們看見以色列的神，他腳下彷佛有平鋪的藍寶石，如同天色明淨。
And they saw the God of Israel: and there was under his feet as it were a paved work of a sapphire stone, and as it were the body of heaven in his clearness.

24:11    他的手不加害在以色列的尊者身上。他們觀看神，他們又吃又喝。
And upon the nobles of the children of Israel he laid not his hand: also they saw God, and did eat and drink.

24:12    耶和華對摩西說，你上山到我這裡來，住在這裡，我要將石版並我所寫的律法和誡命賜給你，使你可以教訓百姓。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Come up to me into the mount, and be there: and I will give thee tables of stone, and a law, and commandments which I have written; that thou mayest teach them.

24:13    摩西和他的幫手約書亞起來，上了神的山。
And Moses rose up, and his minister Joshua: and Moses went up into the mount of God.

24:14    摩西對長老說，你們在這裡等著，等到我們再回來，有亞倫，戶珥與你們同在。凡有爭訟的，都可以就近他們去。
And he said unto the elders, Tarry ye here for us, until we come again unto you: and, behold, Aaron and Hur are with you: if any man have any matters to do, let him come unto them.

24:15    摩西上山，有云彩把山遮蓋。
And Moses went up into the mount, and a cloud covered the mount.

24:16    耶和華的榮耀停於西奈山，雲彩遮蓋山六天，第七天他從雲中召摩西。
And the glory of the LORD abode upon mount Sinai, and the cloud covered it six days: and the seventh day he called unto Moses out of the midst of the cloud.

24:17    耶和華的榮耀在山頂上，在以色列人眼前，形狀如烈火。
And the sight of the glory of the LORD was like devouring fire on the top of the mount in the eyes of the children of Israel.

24:18    摩西進入雲中上山，在山上四十晝夜。
And Moses went into the midst of the cloud, and gat him up into the mount: and Moses was in the mount forty days and forty nights.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


25:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

25:2    你告訴以色列人當為我送禮物來，凡甘心樂意的，你們就可以收下歸我。
Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring me an offering: of every man that giveth it willingly with his heart ye shall take my offering.

25:3    所要收的禮物，就是金，銀，銅，
And this is the offering which ye shall take of them; gold, and silver, and brass,

25:4    藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，細麻，山羊毛，
And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair,

25:5    染紅的公羊皮，海狗皮，皂莢木，
And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood,

25:6    點燈的油並作膏油和香的香料，
Oil for the light, spices for anointing oil, and for sweet incense,

25:7    紅瑪瑙與別樣的寶石，可以鑲嵌在以弗得和胸牌上。
Onyx stones, and stones to be set in the ephod, and in the breastplate.

25:8    又當為我造聖所，使我可以住在他們中間。
And let them make me a sanctuary; that I may dwell among them.

25:9    製造帳幕和其中的一切器具都要照我所指示你的樣式。
According to all that I shew thee, after the pattern of the tabernacle, and the pattern of all the instruments thereof, even so shall ye make it.

25:10    要用皂莢木作一櫃，長二肘半，寬一肘半，高一肘半。
And they shall make an ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.

25:11    要裡外包上精金，四圍鑲上金牙邊。
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, within and without shalt thou overlay it, and shalt make upon it a crown of gold round about.

25:12    也要鑄四個金環，安在櫃的四腳上，這邊兩環，那邊兩環。
And thou shalt cast four rings of gold for it, and put them in the four corners thereof; and two rings shall be in the one side of it, and two rings in the other side of it.

25:13    要用皂莢木作兩根槓，用金包裹。
And thou shalt make staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.

25:14    要把槓穿在櫃旁的環內，以便抬櫃。
And thou shalt put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, that the ark may be borne with them.

25:15    這槓要常在櫃的環內，不可抽出來。
The staves shall be in the rings of the ark: they shall not be taken from it.

25:16    必將我所要賜給你的法版放在櫃裡。
And thou shalt put into the ark the testimony which I shall give thee.

25:17    要用精金作施恩座（施恩或作蔽罪下同），長二肘半，寬一肘半。
And thou shalt make a mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half shall be the length thereof, and a cubit and a half the breadth thereof.

25:18    要用金子錘出兩個基路伯來，安在施恩座的兩頭。
And thou shalt make two cherubims of gold, of beaten work shalt thou make them, in the two ends of the mercy seat.

25:19    這頭作一個基路伯，那頭作一個基路伯，二基路伯要接連一塊，在施恩座的兩頭。
And make one cherub on the one end, and the other cherub on the other end: even of the mercy seat shall ye make the cherubims on the two ends thereof.

25:20    二基路伯要高張翅膀，遮掩施恩座。基路伯要臉對臉，朝著施恩座。
And the cherubims shall stretch forth their wings on high, covering the mercy seat with their wings, and their faces shall look one to another; toward the mercy seat shall the faces of the cherubims be.

25:21    要將施恩座安在櫃的上邊，又將我所要賜給你的法版放在櫃裡。
And thou shalt put the mercy seat above upon the ark; and in the ark thou shalt put the testimony that I shall give thee.

25:22    我要在那裡與你相會，又要從法櫃施恩座上二基路伯中間，和你說我所要吩咐你傳給以色列人的一切事。
And there I will meet with thee, and I will commune with thee from above the mercy seat, from between the two cherubims which are upon the ark of the testimony, of all things which I will give thee in commandment unto the children of Israel.

25:23    要用皂莢木作一張桌子，長二肘，寬一肘，高一肘半。
Thou shalt also make a table of shittim wood: two cubits shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof.

25:24    要包上精金，四圍鑲上金牙邊。
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, and make thereto a crown of gold round about.

25:25    桌子的四圍各作一掌寬的橫樑，橫樑上鑲著金牙邊。
And thou shalt make unto it a border of an hand breadth round about, and thou shalt make a golden crown to the border thereof round about.

25:26    要作四個金環，安在桌子的四角上，就是桌子四腳上的四角。
And thou shalt make for it four rings of gold, and put the rings in the four corners that are on the four feet thereof.

25:27    安環子的地方要挨近橫樑，可以穿槓抬桌子。
Over against the border shall the rings be for places of the staves to bear the table.

25:28    要用皂莢木作兩根槓，用金包裹，以便抬桌子。
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, that the table may be borne with them.

25:29    要作桌子上的盤子，調羹，並奠酒的爵和瓶，這都要用精金製作。
And thou shalt make the dishes thereof, and spoons thereof, and covers thereof, and bowls thereof, to cover withal: of pure gold shalt thou make them.

25:30    又要在桌子上，在我面前，常擺陳設餅。
And thou shalt set upon the table shewbread before me alway.

25:31    要用精金作一個燈臺。燈臺的座和干與杯，球，花，都要接連一塊錘出來。
And thou shalt make a candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work shall the candlestick be made: his shaft, and his branches, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, shall be of the same.

25:32    燈臺兩旁要杈出六個枝子，這旁三個，那旁三個。
And six branches shall come out of the sides of it; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side:

25:33    這旁每枝上有三個杯，形狀像杏花，有球，有花，那旁每枝上也有三個杯，形狀像杏花，有球，有花。從燈臺杈出來的六個枝子都是如此。
Three bowls made like unto almonds, with a knop and a flower in one branch; and three bowls made like almonds in the other branch, with a knop and a flower: so in the six branches that come out of the candlestick.

25:34    燈臺上有四個杯，形狀像杏花，有球，有花。
And in the candlestick shall be four bowls made like unto almonds, with their knops and their flowers.

25:35    燈臺每兩個枝子以下有球與枝子接連一塊。燈臺出的六個枝子都是如此。
And there shall be a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches that proceed out of the candlestick.

25:36    球和枝子要接連一塊，都是一塊精金錘出來的。
Their knops and their branches shall be of the same: all it shall be one beaten work of pure gold.

25:37    要作燈臺的七個燈盞。祭司要點這燈，使燈光對照。
And thou shalt make the seven lamps thereof: and they shall light the lamps thereof, that they may give light over against it.

25:38    燈臺的臘剪和臘花盤也是要精金的。
And the tongs thereof, and the snuffdishes thereof, shall be of pure gold.

25:39    作燈臺和這一切的器具要用精金一他連得。
Of a talent of pure gold shall he make it, with all these vessels.

25:40    要謹慎作這些物件，都要照著在山上指示你的樣式。
And look that thou make them after their pattern, which was shewed thee in the mount.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


26:1    你要用十幅幔子作帳幕。這些幔子要用捻的細麻和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線製造，並用巧匠的手工繡上基路伯。
Moreover thou shalt make the tabernacle with ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work shalt thou make them.

26:2    每幅幔子要長二十八肘，寬四肘，幔子都要一樣的尺寸。
The length of one curtain shall be eight and twenty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and every one of the curtains shall have one measure.

26:3    這五幅幔子要幅幅相連，那五幅幔子也要幅幅相連。
The five curtains shall be coupled together one to another; and other five curtains shall be coupled one to another.

26:4    在這相連的幔子末幅邊上要作藍色的鈕釦，在那相連的幔子末幅邊上也要照樣作。
And thou shalt make loops of blue upon the edge of the one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling; and likewise shalt thou make in the uttermost edge of another curtain, in the coupling of the second.

26:5    要在這相連的幔子上作五十個鈕釦，在那相連的幔子上也作五十個鈕釦，都要兩兩相對。
Fifty loops shalt thou make in the one curtain, and fifty loops shalt thou make in the edge of the curtain that is in the coupling of the second; that the loops may take hold one of another.

26:6    又要作五十個金鉤，用鉤使幔子相連，這才成了一個帳幕。
And thou shalt make fifty taches of gold, and couple the curtains together with the taches: and it shall be one tabernacle.

26:7    你要用山羊毛織十一幅幔子，作為帳幕以上的罩棚。
And thou shalt make curtains of goats' hair to be a covering upon the tabernacle: eleven curtains shalt thou make.

26:8    每幅幔子要長三十肘，寬四肘，十一幅幔子都要一樣的尺寸。
The length of one curtain shall be thirty cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: and the eleven curtains shall be all of one measure.

26:9    要把五幅幔子連成一幅，又把六幅幔子連成一幅，這第六幅幔子要在罩棚的前面摺上去。
And thou shalt couple five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves, and shalt double the sixth curtain in the forefront of the tabernacle.

26:10    在這相連的幔子末幅邊上要作五十個鈕釦，在那相連的幔子末幅邊上也作五十個鈕釦。
And thou shalt make fifty loops on the edge of the one curtain that is outmost in the coupling, and fifty loops in the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second.

26:11    又要作五十個銅鉤，鉤在鈕釦中，使罩棚連成一個。
And thou shalt make fifty taches of brass, and put the taches into the loops, and couple the tent together, that it may be one.

26:12    罩棚的幔子所餘那垂下來的半幅幔子，要垂在帳幕的後頭。
And the remnant that remaineth of the curtains of the tent, the half curtain that remaineth, shall hang over the backside of the tabernacle.

26:13    罩棚的幔子所餘長的，這邊一肘，那邊一肘，要垂在帳幕的兩旁，遮蓋帳幕。
And a cubit on the one side, and a cubit on the other side of that which remaineth in the length of the curtains of the tent, it shall hang over the sides of the tabernacle on this side and on that side, to cover it.

26:14    又要用染紅的公羊皮作罩棚的蓋，再用海狗皮作一層罩棚上的頂蓋。
And thou shalt make a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering above of badgers' skins.

26:15    你要用皂莢木作帳幕的豎板。
And thou shalt make boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood standing up.

26:16    每塊要長十肘，寬一肘半，
Ten cubits shall be the length of a board, and a cubit and a half shall be the breadth of one board.

26:17    每塊必有兩榫相對。帳幕一切的板都要這樣作。
Two tenons shall there be in one board, set in order one against another: thus shalt thou make for all the boards of the tabernacle.

26:18    帳幕的南面要作板二十塊。
And thou shalt make the boards for the tabernacle, twenty boards on the south side southward.

26:19    在這二十塊板底下要作四十個帶卯的銀座，兩卯接這塊板上的兩榫，兩卯接那塊板上的兩榫。
And thou shalt make forty sockets of silver under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons.

26:20    帳幕第二面，就是北面，也要作板二十塊
And for the second side of the tabernacle on the north side there shall be twenty boards:

26:21    和帶卯的銀座四十個，這板底下有兩卯，那板底下也有兩卯。
And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.

26:22    帳幕的後面，就是西面，要作板六塊。
And for the sides of the tabernacle westward thou shalt make six boards.

26:23    帳幕後面的拐角要作板兩塊。
And two boards shalt thou make for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides.

26:24    板的下半截要雙的，上半截要整的，直頂到第一個環子，兩塊都要這樣作兩個拐角。
And they shall be coupled together beneath, and they shall be coupled together above the head of it unto one ring: thus shall it be for them both; they shall be for the two corners.

26:25    必有八塊板和十六個帶卯的銀座，這板底下有兩卯，那板底下也有兩卯。
And they shall be eight boards, and their sockets of silver, sixteen sockets; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.

26:26    你要用皂莢木作閂，為帳幕這面的板作五閂，
And thou shalt make bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,

26:27    為帳幕那面的板作五閂，又為帳幕後面的板作五閂。
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the side of the tabernacle, for the two sides westward.

26:28    板腰間的中閂要從這一頭通到那一頭。
And the middle bar in the midst of the boards shall reach from end to end.

26:29    板要用金子包裹，又要作板上的金環套閂，閂也要用金子包裹。
And thou shalt overlay the boards with gold, and make their rings of gold for places for the bars: and thou shalt overlay the bars with gold.

26:30    要照著在山上指示你的樣式立起帳幕。
And thou shalt rear up the tabernacle according to the fashion thereof which was shewed thee in the mount.

26:31    你要用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和捻的細麻織幔子，以巧匠的手工繡上基路伯。
And thou shalt make a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen of cunning work: with cherubims shall it be made:

26:32    要把幔子掛在四根包金的皂莢木柱子上，柱子上當有金鉤，柱子安在四個帶卯的銀座上。
And thou shalt hang it upon four pillars of shittim wood overlaid with gold: their hooks shall be of gold, upon the four sockets of silver.

26:33    要使幔子垂在鉤子下，把法櫃抬進幔子內，這幔子要將聖所和至聖所隔開。
And thou shalt hang up the vail under the taches, that thou mayest bring in thither within the vail the ark of the testimony: and the vail shall divide unto you between the holy place and the most holy.

26:34    又要把施恩座安在至聖所內的法櫃上，
And thou shalt put the mercy seat upon the ark of the testimony in the most holy place.

26:35    把桌子安在幔子外帳幕的北面，把燈臺安在帳幕的南面，彼此相對。
And thou shalt set the table without the vail, and the candlestick over against the table on the side of the tabernacle toward the south: and thou shalt put the table on the north side.

26:36    你要拿藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和捻的細麻，用繡花的手工織帳幕的門簾。
And thou shalt make an hanging for the door of the tent, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework.

26:37    要用皂莢木為簾子作五根柱子，用金子包裹。柱子上當有金鉤，又要為柱子用銅鑄造五個帶卯的座。
And thou shalt make for the hanging five pillars of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold, and their hooks shall be of gold: and thou shalt cast five sockets of brass for them.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


27:1    你要用皂莢木作壇。這壇要四方的，長五肘，寬五肘，高三肘。
And thou shalt make an altar of shittim wood, five cubits long, and five cubits broad; the altar shall be foursquare: and the height thereof shall be three cubits.

27:2    要在壇的四拐角上作四個角，與壇接連一塊，用銅把壇包裹。
And thou shalt make the horns of it upon the four corners thereof: his horns shall be of the same: and thou shalt overlay it with brass.

27:3    要作盆，收去壇上的灰，又作鏟子，盤子，肉鍤子，火鼎，壇上一切的器具都用銅作。
And thou shalt make his pans to receive his ashes, and his shovels, and his basons, and his fleshhooks, and his firepans: all the vessels thereof thou shalt make of brass.

27:4    要為壇作一個銅網，在網的四角上作四個銅環，
And thou shalt make for it a grate of network of brass; and upon the net shalt thou make four brasen rings in the four corners thereof.

27:5    把網安在壇四面的圍腰板以下，使網從下達到壇的半腰。
And thou shalt put it under the compass of the altar beneath, that the net may be even to the midst of the altar.

27:6    又要用皂莢木為壇作槓，用銅包裹。
And thou shalt make staves for the altar, staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with brass.

27:7    這槓要穿在壇兩旁的環子內，用以抬壇。
And the staves shall be put into the rings, and the staves shall be upon the two sides of the altar, to bear it.

27:8    要用板作壇，壇是空的，都照著在山上指示你的樣式作。
Hollow with boards shalt thou make it: as it was shewed thee in the mount, so shall they make it.

27:9    你要作帳幕的院子。院子的南面要用捻的細麻作帷子，長一百肘。
And thou shalt make the court of the tabernacle: for the south side southward there shall be hangings for the court of fine twined linen of an hundred cubits long for one side:

27:10    帷子的柱子要二十根，帶卯的銅座二十個。柱子上的鉤子和杆子都要用銀子作。
And the twenty pillars thereof and their twenty sockets shall be of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets shall be of silver.

27:11    北面也當有帷子，長一百肘，帷子的柱子二十根，帶卯的銅座二十個。柱子上的鉤子和杆子都要用銀子作。
And likewise for the north side in length there shall be hangings of an hundred cubits long, and his twenty pillars and their twenty sockets of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.

27:12    院子的西面當有帷子，寬五十肘，帷子的柱子十根，帶卯的座十個。
And for the breadth of the court on the west side shall be hangings of fifty cubits: their pillars ten, and their sockets ten.

27:13    院子的東面要寬五十肘。
And the breadth of the court on the east side eastward shall be fifty cubits.

27:14    門這邊的帷子要十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，帶卯的座三個。
The hangings of one side of the gate shall be fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three.

27:15    門那邊的帷子也要十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，帶卯的座三個。
And on the other side shall be hangings fifteen cubits: their pillars three, and their sockets three.

27:16    院子的門當有簾子，長二十肘，要拿藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和捻的細麻，用繡花的手工織成，柱子四根，帶卯的座四個。
And for the gate of the court shall be an hanging of twenty cubits, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, wrought with needlework: and their pillars shall be four, and their sockets four.

27:17    院子四圍一切的柱子都要用銀杆連絡，柱子上的鉤子要用銀作，帶卯的座要用銅作。
All the pillars round about the court shall be filleted with silver; their hooks shall be of silver, and their sockets of brass.

27:18    院子要長一百肘，寬五十肘，高五肘，帷子要用捻的細麻作，帶卯的座要用銅作。
The length of the court shall be an hundred cubits, and the breadth fifty every where, and the height five cubits of fine twined linen, and their sockets of brass.

27:19    帳幕各樣用處的器具，並帳幕一切的橛子，和院子裡一切的橛子，都要用銅作。
All the vessels of the tabernacle in all the service thereof, and all the pins thereof, and all the pins of the court, shall be of brass.

27:20    你要吩咐以色列人，把那為點燈搗成的清橄欖油拿來給你，使燈常常點著。
And thou shalt command the children of Israel, that they bring thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamp to burn always.

27:21    在會幕中法櫃前的幔外，亞倫和他的兒子，從晚上到早晨，要在耶和華面前經理這燈。這要作以色列人世世代代永遠的定例。
In the tabernacle of the congregation without the vail, which is before the testimony, Aaron and his sons shall order it from evening to morning before the LORD: it shall be a statute for ever unto their generations on the behalf of the children of Israel.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


28:1    你要從以色列人中，使你的哥哥亞倫和他的兒子拿答，亞比戶，以利亞撒，以他瑪一同就近你，給我供祭司的職分。
And take thou unto thee Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him, from among the children of Israel, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office, even Aaron, Nadab and Abihu, Eleazar and Ithamar, Aaron's sons.

28:2    你要給你哥哥亞倫作聖衣為榮耀，為華美。
And thou shalt make holy garments for Aaron thy brother for glory and for beauty.

28:3    又要吩咐一切心中有智慧的，就是我用智慧的靈所充滿的，給亞倫作衣服，使他分別為聖，可以給我供祭司的職分。
And thou shalt speak unto all that are wise hearted, whom I have filled with the spirit of wisdom, that they may make Aaron's garments to consecrate him, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:4    所要作的就是胸牌，以弗得，外袍，雜色的內袍，冠冕，腰帶，使你哥哥亞倫和他兒子穿這聖服，可以給我供祭司的職分。
And these are the garments which they shall make; a breastplate, and an ephod, and a robe, and a broidered coat, a mitre, and a girdle: and they shall make holy garments for Aaron thy brother, and his sons, that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:5    要用金線和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並細麻去作。
And they shall take gold, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen.

28:6    他們要拿金線和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻，用巧匠的手工作以弗得。
And they shall make the ephod of gold, of blue, and of purple, of scarlet, and fine twined linen, with cunning work.

28:7    以弗得當有兩條肩帶，接上兩頭，使它相連。
It shall have the two shoulderpieces thereof joined at the two edges thereof; and so it shall be joined together.

28:8    其上巧工織的帶子，要和以弗得一樣的作法，用以束上，與以弗得接連一塊，要用金線和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻作成。
And the curious girdle of the ephod, which is upon it, shall be of the same, according to the work thereof; even of gold, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

28:9    要取兩塊紅瑪瑙，在上面刻以色列兒子的名字，
And thou shalt take two onyx stones, and grave on them the names of the children of Israel:

28:10    六個名字在這塊寶石上，六個名字在那塊寶石上，都照他們生來的次序。
Six of their names on one stone, and the other six names of the rest on the other stone, according to their birth.

28:11    要用刻寶石的手工，彷佛刻圖書，按著以色列兒子的名字，刻這兩塊寶石，要鑲在金槽上。
With the work of an engraver in stone, like the engravings of a signet, shalt thou engrave the two stones with the names of the children of Israel: thou shalt make them to be set in ouches of gold.

28:12    要將這兩塊寶石安在以弗得的兩條肩帶上，為以色列人作紀念石。亞倫要在兩肩上擔他們的名字，在耶和華面前作為紀念。
And thou shalt put the two stones upon the shoulders of the ephod for stones of memorial unto the children of Israel: and Aaron shall bear their names before the LORD upon his two shoulders for a memorial.

28:13    要用金子作二槽，
And thou shalt make ouches of gold;

28:14    又拿精金，用擰工彷佛擰繩子，作兩條鏈子，把這擰成的鏈子搭在二槽上。
And two chains of pure gold at the ends; of wreathen work shalt thou make them, and fasten the wreathen chains to the ouches.

28:15    你要用巧匠的手工作一個決斷的胸牌。要和以弗得一樣的作法，用金線和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻作成。
And thou shalt make the breastplate of judgment with cunning work; after the work of the ephod thou shalt make it; of gold, of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine twined linen, shalt thou make it.

28:16    這胸牌要四方的，疊為兩層，長一虎口，寬一虎口。
Foursquare it shall be being doubled; a span shall be the length thereof, and a span shall be the breadth thereof.

28:17    要在上面鑲寶石四行，第一行是紅寶石，紅璧璽，紅玉，
And thou shalt set in it settings of stones, even four rows of stones: the first row shall be a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this shall be the first row.

28:18    第二行是綠寶石，藍寶石，金鋼石，
And the second row shall be an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.

28:19    第三行是紫瑪瑙，白瑪瑙，紫晶，
And the third row a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

28:20    第四行是水蒼玉，紅瑪瑙，碧玉。這都要鑲在金槽中。
And the fourth row a beryl, and an onyx, and a jasper: they shall be set in gold in their inclosings.

28:21    這些寶石都要按著以色列十二個兒子的名字，彷佛刻圖書，刻十二個支派的名字。
And the stones shall be with the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet; every one with his name shall they be according to the twelve tribes.

28:22    要在胸牌上用精金擰成如繩的鏈子。
And thou shalt make upon the breastplate chains at the ends of wreathen work of pure gold.

28:23    在胸牌上也要作兩個金環，安在胸牌的兩頭。
And thou shalt make upon the breastplate two rings of gold, and shalt put the two rings on the two ends of the breastplate.

28:24    要把那兩條擰成的金鍊子，穿過胸牌兩頭的環子。
And thou shalt put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings which are on the ends of the breastplate.

28:25    又要把鏈子的那兩頭接在兩槽上，安在以弗得前面肩帶上。
And the other two ends of the two wreathen chains thou shalt fasten in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod before it.

28:26    要作兩個金環，安在胸牌的兩頭，在以弗得裡面的邊上。
And thou shalt make two rings of gold, and thou shalt put them upon the two ends of the breastplate in the border thereof, which is in the side of the ephod inward.

28:27    又要作兩個金環，安在以弗得前面兩條肩帶的下邊，挨近相接之處，在以弗得巧工織的帶子以上。
And two other rings of gold thou shalt make, and shalt put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart thereof, over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.

28:28    要用藍細帶子把胸牌的環子與以弗得的環子繫住，使胸牌貼在以弗得巧工織的帶子上，不可與以弗得離縫。
And they shall bind the breastplate by the rings thereof unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it may be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate be not loosed from the ephod.

28:29    亞倫進聖所的時候，要將決斷胸牌，就是刻著以色列兒子名字的，帶在胸前，在耶和華面前常作紀念。
And Aaron shall bear the names of the children of Israel in the breastplate of judgment upon his heart, when he goeth in unto the holy place, for a memorial before the LORD continually.

28:30    又要將烏陵和土明放在決斷的胸牌裡，亞倫進到耶和華面前的時候，要帶在胸前，在耶和華面前常將以色列人的決斷牌帶在胸前。
And thou shalt put in the breastplate of judgment the Urim and the Thummim; and they shall be upon Aaron's heart, when he goeth in before the LORD: and Aaron shall bear the judgment of the children of Israel upon his heart before the LORD continually.

28:31    你耀作以弗得的外袍，顏色全是藍的。
And thou shalt make the robe of the ephod all of blue.

28:32    袍上要為頭留一領口，口的周圍織出領邊來，彷佛鎧甲的領口，免得破裂。
And there shall be an hole in the top of it, in the midst thereof: it shall have a binding of woven work round about the hole of it, as it were the hole of an habergeon, that it be not rent.

28:33    袍子周圍底邊上要用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線作石榴。在袍子周圍的石榴中間要有金鈴鐺，
And beneath upon the hem of it thou shalt make pomegranates of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, round about the hem thereof; and bells of gold between them round about:

28:34    一個金鈴鐺一個石榴，一個金鈴鐺一個石榴，在袍子周圍的底邊上。
A golden bell and a pomegranate, a golden bell and a pomegranate, upon the hem of the robe round about.

28:35    亞倫供職的時候要穿這袍子。他進聖所到耶和華面前，以及出來的時候，袍上的響聲必被聽見，使他不至於死亡。
And it shall be upon Aaron to minister: and his sound shall be heard when he goeth in unto the holy place before the LORD, and when he cometh out, that he die not.

28:36    你要用精金作一面牌，在上面按刻圖書之法刻著『歸耶和華為聖』。
And thou shalt make a plate of pure gold, and grave upon it, like the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.

28:37    要用一條藍細帶子將牌系在冠冕的前面。
And thou shalt put it on a blue lace, that it may be upon the mitre; upon the forefront of the mitre it shall be.

28:38    這牌必在亞倫的額上，亞倫要擔當干犯聖物條例的罪孽，這聖物是以色列人在一切的聖禮物上所分別為聖的。這牌要常在他的額上，使他們可以在耶和華面前蒙悅納。
And it shall be upon Aaron's forehead, that Aaron may bear the iniquity of the holy things, which the children of Israel shall hallow in all their holy gifts; and it shall be always upon his forehead, that they may be accepted before the LORD.

28:39    要用雜色細麻線織內袍，用細麻布作冠冕，又用繡花的手工作腰帶。
And thou shalt embroider the coat of fine linen, and thou shalt make the mitre of fine linen, and thou shalt make the girdle of needlework.

28:40    你要為亞倫的兒子作內袍，腰帶，裹頭巾，為榮耀，為華美。
And for Aaron's sons thou shalt make coats, and thou shalt make for them girdles, and bonnets shalt thou make for them, for glory and for beauty.

28:41    要把這些給你的哥哥亞倫和他的兒子穿戴，又要膏他們，將他們分別為聖，好給我供祭司的職分。
And thou shalt put them upon Aaron thy brother, and his sons with him; and shalt anoint them, and consecrate them, and sanctify them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

28:42    要給他們作細麻布褲子，遮掩下體，褲子當從腰達到大腿。
And thou shalt make them linen breeches to cover their nakedness; from the loins even unto the thighs they shall reach:

28:43    亞倫和他兒子進入會幕，或就近壇，在聖所供職的時候必穿上，免得擔罪而死。這要為亞倫和他的後裔作永遠的定例。
And they shall be upon Aaron, and upon his sons, when they come in unto the tabernacle of the congregation, or when they come near unto the altar to minister in the holy place; that they bear not iniquity, and die: it shall be a statute for ever unto him and his seed after him.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


29:1    你使亞倫和他兒子成聖，給我供祭司的職分，要如此行，取一隻公牛犢，兩隻無殘疾的公綿羊，
And this is the thing that thou shalt do unto them to hallow them, to minister unto me in the priest's office: Take one young bullock, and two rams without blemish,

29:2    無酵餅和調油的無酵餅，與抹油的無酵薄餅，這都要用細麥面作成。
And unleavened bread, and cakes unleavened tempered with oil, and wafers unleavened anointed with oil: of wheaten flour shalt thou make them.

29:3    這餅要裝在一個筐子裡，連筐子帶來，又把公牛和兩隻公綿羊牽來。
And thou shalt put them into one basket, and bring them in the basket, with the bullock and the two rams.

29:4    要使亞倫和他兒子到會幕門口來，用水洗身。
And Aaron and his sons thou shalt bring unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shalt wash them with water.

29:5    要給亞倫穿上內袍和以弗得的外袍，並以弗得，又帶上胸牌，束上以弗得巧工織的帶子。
And thou shalt take the garments, and put upon Aaron the coat, and the robe of the ephod, and the ephod, and the breastplate, and gird him with the curious girdle of the ephod:

29:6    把冠冕戴在他頭上，將聖冠加在冠冕上，
And thou shalt put the mitre upon his head, and put the holy crown upon the mitre.

29:7    就把膏油倒在他頭上膏他。
Then shalt thou take the anointing oil, and pour it upon his head, and anoint him.

29:8    要叫他的兒子來，給他們穿上內袍。
And thou shalt bring his sons, and put coats upon them.

29:9    給亞倫和他兒子束上腰帶，包上裹頭巾，他們就憑永遠的定例得了祭司的職任。又要將亞倫和他兒子分別為聖。
And thou shalt gird them with girdles, Aaron and his sons, and put the bonnets on them: and the priest's office shall be theirs for a perpetual statute: and thou shalt consecrate Aaron and his sons.

29:10    你要把公牛牽到會幕前，亞倫和他兒子要按手在公牛的頭上。
And thou shalt cause a bullock to be brought before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the bullock.

29:11    你要在耶和華面前，在會幕門口，宰這公牛。
And thou shalt kill the bullock before the LORD, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

29:12    要取些公牛的血，用指頭抹在壇的四角上，把血都倒在壇腳那裡。
And thou shalt take of the blood of the bullock, and put it upon the horns of the altar with thy finger, and pour all the blood beside the bottom of the altar.

29:13    要把一切蓋髒的脂油與肝上的網子，並兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，都燒在壇上。
And thou shalt take all the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul that is above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and burn them upon the altar.

29:14    只是公牛的皮，肉，糞都要用火燒在營外。這牛是贖罪祭。
But the flesh of the bullock, and his skin, and his dung, shalt thou burn with fire without the camp: it is a sin offering.

29:15    你要牽一隻公綿羊來，亞倫和他兒子要按手在這羊的頭上。
Thou shalt also take one ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.

29:16    要宰這羊，把血灑在壇的周圍。
And thou shalt slay the ram, and thou shalt take his blood, and sprinkle it round about upon the altar.

29:17    要把羊切成塊子，洗淨五臟和腿，連塊子帶頭，都放在一處。
And thou shalt cut the ram in pieces, and wash the inwards of him, and his legs, and put them unto his pieces, and unto his head.



29:18    要把全羊燒在壇上，是給耶和華獻的燔祭，是獻給耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And thou shalt burn the whole ram upon the altar: it is a burnt offering unto the LORD: it is a sweet savour, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

29:19    你要將那一隻公綿羊牽來，亞倫和他兒子要按手在羊的頭上。
And thou shalt take the other ram; and Aaron and his sons shall put their hands upon the head of the ram.

29:20    你要宰這羊，取點血抹在亞倫的右耳垂上和他兒子的右耳垂上，又抹在他們右手的大拇指上和右腳的大拇指上，並要把血灑在壇的四圍。
Then shalt thou kill the ram, and take of his blood, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of Aaron, and upon the tip of the right ear of his sons, and upon the thumb of their right hand, and upon the great toe of their right foot, and sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.

29:21    你要取點膏油和壇上的血，彈在亞倫和他的衣服上，並他兒子和他兒子的衣服上，他們和他們的衣服就一同成聖。
And thou shalt take of the blood that is upon the altar, and of the anointing oil, and sprinkle it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon the garments of his sons with him: and he shall be hallowed, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.

29:22    你要取這羊的脂油和肥尾巴，並蓋髒的脂油與肝上的網子，兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油並右腿（這是承接聖職所獻的羊）。
Also thou shalt take of the ram the fat and the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, and the right shoulder; for it is a ram of consecration:

29:23    再從耶和華面前裝無酵餅的筐子中取一個餅，一個調油的餅和一個薄餅，
And one loaf of bread, and one cake of oiled bread, and one wafer out of the basket of the unleavened bread that is before the LORD:

29:24    都放在亞倫的手上和他兒子的手上，作為搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖。
And thou shalt put all in the hands of Aaron, and in the hands of his sons; and shalt wave them for a wave offering before the LORD.

29:25    要從他們手中接過來，燒在耶和華面前壇上的燔祭上，是獻給耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And thou shalt receive them of their hands, and burn them upon the altar for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour before the LORD: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

29:26    你要取亞倫承接聖職所獻公羊的胸，作為搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖，這就可以作你的分。
And thou shalt take the breast of the ram of Aaron's consecration, and wave it for a wave offering before the LORD: and it shall be thy part.

29:27    那搖祭的胸和舉祭的腿，就是承接聖職所搖的，所舉的，是歸亞倫和他兒子的。這些你都要成為聖，
And thou shalt sanctify the breast of the wave offering, and the shoulder of the heave offering, which is waved, and which is heaved up, of the ram of the consecration, even of that which is for Aaron, and of that which is for his sons:

29:28    作亞倫和他子孫從以色列人中永遠所得的分，因為是舉祭。這要從以色列人的平安祭中，作為獻給耶和華的舉祭。
And it shall be Aaron's and his sons' by a statute for ever from the children of Israel: for it is an heave offering: and it shall be an heave offering from the children of Israel of the sacrifice of their peace offerings, even their heave offering unto the LORD.

29:29    亞倫的聖衣要留給他的子孫，可以穿著受膏，又穿著承接聖職。
And the holy garments of Aaron shall be his sons' after him, to be anointed therein, and to be consecrated in them.

29:30    他的子孫接續他當祭司的，每逢進會幕在聖所供職的時候，要穿七天。
And that son that is priest in his stead shall put them on seven days, when he cometh into the tabernacle of the congregation to minister in the holy place.

29:31    你要將承接聖職所獻公羊的肉煮在聖處。
And thou shalt take the ram of the consecration, and seethe his flesh in the holy place.

29:32    亞倫和他兒子要在會幕門口吃這羊的肉和筐內的餅。
And Aaron and his sons shall eat the flesh of the ram, and the bread that is in the basket, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

29:33    他們吃那些贖罪之物，好承接聖職，使他們成聖，只是外人不可吃，因為這是聖物。
And they shall eat those things wherewith the atonement was made, to consecrate and to sanctify them: but a stranger shall not eat thereof, because they are holy.

29:34    那承接聖職所獻的肉或餅，若有一點留到早晨，就要用火燒了，不可吃這物，因為是聖物。
And if ought of the flesh of the consecrations, or of the bread, remain unto the morning, then thou shalt burn the remainder with fire: it shall not be eaten, because it is holy.

29:35    你要這樣照我一切所吩咐的，向亞倫和他兒子行承接聖職的禮七天。
And thus shalt thou do unto Aaron, and to his sons, according to all things which I have commanded thee: seven days shalt thou consecrate them.

29:36    每天要獻公牛一隻為贖罪祭。你潔淨壇的時候，壇就潔淨了，且要用膏抹壇，使壇成聖。
And thou shalt offer every day a bullock for a sin offering for atonement: and thou shalt cleanse the altar, when thou hast made an atonement for it, and thou shalt anoint it, to sanctify it.

29:37    要潔淨壇七天，使壇成聖，壇就成為至聖。凡挨著壇的都成為聖。
Seven days thou shalt make an atonement for the altar, and sanctify it; and it shall be an altar most holy: whatsoever toucheth the altar shall be holy.

29:38    你每天所要獻在壇上的就是兩隻一歲的羊羔，
Now this is that which thou shalt offer upon the altar; two lambs of the first year day by day continually.

29:39    早晨要獻這一隻，黃昏的時候要獻那一隻。
The one lamb thou shalt offer in the morning; and the other lamb thou shalt offer at even:

29:40    和這一隻羊羔同獻的，要用細面伊法十分之一與搗成的油一欣四分之一調和，又用酒一欣四分之一作為奠祭。
And with the one lamb a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil; and the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering.

29:41    那一隻羊羔要在黃昏的時候獻上，照著早晨的素祭和奠祭的禮辦理，作為獻給耶和華馨香的火祭。
And the other lamb thou shalt offer at even, and shalt do thereto according to the meat offering of the morning, and according to the drink offering thereof, for a sweet savour, an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

29:42    這要在耶和華面前，會幕門口，作你們世世代代常獻的燔祭。我要在那裡與你們相會，和你們說話。
This shall be a continual burnt offering throughout your generations at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD: where I will meet you, to speak there unto thee.

29:43    我要在那裡與以色列人相會，會幕就要因我的榮耀成為聖。
And there I will meet with the children of Israel, and the tabernacle shall be sanctified by my glory.

29:44    我要使會幕和壇成聖，也要使亞倫和他的兒子成聖，給我供祭司的職分。
And I will sanctify the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar: I will sanctify also both Aaron and his sons, to minister to me in the priest's office.

29:45    我要住在以色列人中間，作他們的神。
And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will be their God.

29:46    他們必知道我是耶和華他們的神，是將他們從埃及地領出來的，為要住在他們中間。我是耶和華他們的神。
And they shall know that I am the LORD their God, that brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, that I may dwell among them: I am the LORD their God.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


30:1    你要用皂莢木作一座燒香的壇。
And thou shalt make an altar to burn incense upon: of shittim wood shalt thou make it.

30:2    這壇要四方的，長一肘，寬一肘，高二肘，壇的四角要與壇接連一塊。
A cubit shall be the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof; foursquare shall it be: and two cubits shall be the height thereof: the horns thereof shall be of the same.



30:3    要用精金把壇的上面與壇的四圍，並壇的四角，包裹，又要在壇的四圍鑲上金牙邊。
And thou shalt overlay it with pure gold, the top thereof, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns thereof; and thou shalt make unto it a crown of gold round about.

30:4    要作兩個金環安在牙子邊以下，在壇的兩旁，兩根橫撐上，作為穿槓的用處，以便抬壇。
And two golden rings shalt thou make to it under the crown of it, by the two corners thereof, upon the two sides of it shalt thou make it; and they shall be for places for the staves to bear it withal.

30:5    要用皂莢木作槓，用金包裹。
And thou shalt make the staves of shittim wood, and overlay them with gold.

30:6    要把壇放在法櫃前的幔子外，對著法櫃上的施恩座，就是我要與你相會的地方。
And thou shalt put it before the vail that is by the ark of the testimony, before the mercy seat that is over the testimony, where I will meet with thee.

30:7    亞倫在壇上要燒馨香料作的香，每早晨他收拾燈的時候，要燒這香。
And Aaron shall burn thereon sweet incense every morning: when he dresseth the lamps, he shall burn incense upon it.

30:8    黃昏點燈的時候，他要在耶和華面前燒這香，作為世世代代常燒的香。
And when Aaron lighteth the lamps at even, he shall burn incense upon it, a perpetual incense before the LORD throughout your generations.

30:9    在這壇上不可奉上異樣的香，不可獻燔祭，素祭，也不可澆上奠祭。
Ye shall offer no strange incense thereon, nor burnt sacrifice, nor meat offering; neither shall ye pour drink offering thereon.

30:10    亞倫一年一次要在壇的角上行贖罪之禮。他一年一次要用贖罪祭牲的血在壇上行贖罪之禮，作為世世代代的定例。這壇在耶和華面前為至聖。
And Aaron shall make an atonement upon the horns of it once in a year with the blood of the sin offering of atonements: once in the year shall he make atonement upon it throughout your generations: it is most holy unto the LORD.

30:11    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

30:12    你要按以色列人被數的，計算總數，你數的時候，他們各人要為自己的生命把贖價奉給耶和華，免得數的時候在他們中間有災殃。
When thou takest the sum of the children of Israel after their number, then shall they give every man a ransom for his soul unto the LORD, when thou numberest them; that there be no plague among them, when thou numberest them.

30:13    凡過去歸那些被數之人的，每人要按聖所的平，拿銀子半舍客勒，這半舍客勒是奉給耶和華的禮物，一舍客勒是二十季拉。
This they shall give, every one that passeth among them that are numbered, half a shekel after the shekel of the sanctuary: (a shekel is twenty gerahs:) an half shekel shall be the offering of the LORD.

30:14    凡過去歸那些被數的人，從二十歲以外的，要將這禮物奉給耶和華。
Every one that passeth among them that are numbered, from twenty years old and above, shall give an offering unto the LORD.

30:15    他們為贖生命將禮物奉給耶和華，富足的不可多出，貧窮的也不可少出，各人要出半舍客勒。
The rich shall not give more, and the poor shall not give less than half a shekel, when they give an offering unto the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.

30:16    你要從以色列人收這贖罪銀，作為會幕的使用，可以在耶和華面前為以色列人作紀念，贖生命。
And thou shalt take the atonement money of the children of Israel, and shalt appoint it for the service of the tabernacle of the congregation; that it may be a memorial unto the children of Israel before the LORD, to make an atonement for your souls.

30:17    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

30:18    你要用銅作洗濯盆和盆座，以便洗濯。要將盆放在會幕和壇的中間，在盆裡盛水。
Thou shalt also make a laver of brass, and his foot also of brass, to wash withal: and thou shalt put it between the tabernacle of the congregation and the altar, and thou shalt put water therein.

30:19    亞倫和他的兒子要在這盆裡洗手洗腳。
For Aaron and his sons shall wash their hands and their feet thereat:

30:20    他們進會幕，或是就近壇前供職給耶和華獻火祭的時候，必用水洗濯，免得死亡。
When they go into the tabernacle of the congregation, they shall wash with water, that they die not; or when they come near to the altar to minister, to burn offering made by fire unto the LORD:

30:21    他們洗手洗腳就免得死亡。這要作亞倫和他後裔世世代代永遠的定例。
So they shall wash their hands and their feet, that they die not: and it shall be a statute for ever to them, even to him and to his seed throughout their generations.

30:22    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
Moreover the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

30:23    你要取上品的香料，就是流質的沒藥五百舍客勒，香肉桂一半，就是二百五十舍客勒，菖蒲二百五十舍客勒，
Take thou also unto thee principal spices, of pure myrrh five hundred shekels, and of sweet cinnamon half so much, even two hundred and fifty shekels, and of sweet calamus two hundred and fifty shekels,

30:24    桂皮五百舍客勒，都按著聖所的平，又取橄欖油一欣，
And of cassia five hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, and of oil olive an hin:

30:25    按作香之法調和作成聖膏油。
And thou shalt make it an oil of holy ointment, an ointment compound after the art of the apothecary: it shall be an holy anointing oil.

30:26    要用這膏油抹會幕和法櫃，
And thou shalt anoint the tabernacle of the congregation therewith, and the ark of the testimony,

30:27    桌子與桌子的一切器具，燈臺和燈臺的器具，並香壇，
And the table and all his vessels, and the candlestick and his vessels, and the altar of incense,

30:28    燔祭壇，和壇的一切器具，洗濯盆和盆座。
And the altar of burnt offering with all his vessels, and the laver and his foot.

30:29    要使這些物成為聖，好成為至聖，凡挨著的都成為聖。
And thou shalt sanctify them, that they may be most holy: whatsoever toucheth them shall be holy.

30:30    要膏亞倫和他的兒子，使他們成為聖，可以給我供祭司的職分。
And thou shalt anoint Aaron and his sons, and consecrate them, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office.

30:31    你要對以色列人說，這油，我要世世代代以為聖膏油。
And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, This shall be an holy anointing oil unto me throughout your generations.

30:32    不可倒在別人的身上，也不可按這調和之法作與此相似的。這膏油是聖的，你們也要以為聖。
Upon man's flesh shall it not be poured, neither shall ye make any other like it, after the composition of it: it is holy, and it shall be holy unto you.

30:33    凡調和與此相似的，或將這膏膏在別人身上的，這人要從民中剪除。
Whosoever compoundeth any like it, or whosoever putteth any of it upon a stranger, shall even be cut off from his people.

30:34    耶和華吩咐摩西說，你要取馨香的香料，就是拿他弗，施喜列，喜利比拿，這馨香的香料和淨乳香各樣要一般大的分量。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Take unto thee sweet spices, stacte, and onycha, and galbanum; these sweet spices with pure frankincense: of each shall there be a like weight:

30:35    你要用這些加上鹽，按作香之法作成清淨聖潔的香。
And thou shalt make it a perfume, a confection after the art of the apothecary, tempered together, pure and holy:

30:36    這香要取點搗得極細，放在會幕內，法櫃前，我要在那裡與你相會。你們要以這香為至聖。
And thou shalt beat some of it very small, and put of it before the testimony in the tabernacle of the congregation, where I will meet with thee: it shall be unto you most holy.

30:37    你們不可按這調和之法為自己作香，要以這香為聖，歸耶和華。
And as for the perfume which thou shalt make, ye shall not make to yourselves according to the composition thereof: it shall be unto thee holy for the LORD.

30:38    凡作香和這香一樣，為要聞香味的，這人要從民中剪除。
Whosoever shall make like unto that, to smell thereto, shall even be cut off from his people.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


31:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

31:2    看哪，猶大支派中，戶珥的孫子，烏利的兒子比撒列，我已經題他的名召他。
See, I have called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah:

31:3    我也以我的靈充滿了他，使他有智慧，有聰明，有知識，能作各樣的工，
And I have filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, and in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship,

31:4    能想出巧工，用金，銀，銅製造各物，
To devise cunning works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,

31:5    又能刻寶石，可以鑲嵌，能雕刻木頭，能作各樣的工。
And in cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of timber, to work in all manner of workmanship.

31:6    我分派但支派中，亞希撒抹的兒子亞何利亞伯與他同工。凡心裡有智慧的，我更使他們有智慧，能作我一切所吩咐的，
And I, behold, I have given with him Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan: and in the hearts of all that are wise hearted I have put wisdom, that they may make all that I have commanded thee;

31:7    就是會幕和法櫃，並其上的施恩座，與會幕中一切的器具，
The tabernacle of the congregation, and the ark of the testimony, and the mercy seat that is thereupon, and all the furniture of the tabernacle,

31:8    桌子和桌子的器具，精金的燈臺和燈臺的一切器具並香壇，
And the table and his furniture, and the pure candlestick with all his furniture, and the altar of incense,

31:9    燔祭壇和壇的一切器具，並洗濯盆與盆座，
And the altar of burnt offering with all his furniture, and the laver and his foot,

31:10    精工作的禮服，和祭司亞倫並他兒子用以供祭司職分的聖衣，
And the cloths of service, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office,

31:11    膏油和為聖所用馨香的香料。他們都要照我一切所吩咐的去作。
And the anointing oil, and sweet incense for the holy place: according to all that I have commanded thee shall they do.

31:12    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

31:13    你要吩咐以色列人說，你們務要守我的安息日，因為這是你我之間世世代代的證據，使你們知道我耶和華是叫你們成為聖的。
Speak thou also unto the children of Israel, saying, Verily my sabbaths ye shall keep: for it is a sign between me and you throughout your generations; that ye may know that I am the LORD that doth sanctify you.

31:14    所以你們要守安息日，以為聖日。凡干犯這日的，必要把他治死，凡在這日作工的，必從民中剪除。
Ye shall keep the sabbath therefore; for it is holy unto you: every one that defileth it shall surely be put to death: for whosoever doeth any work therein, that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

31:15    六日要作工，但第七日是安息聖日，是向耶和華守為聖的。凡在安息日作工的，必要把他治死。
Six days may work be done; but in the seventh is the sabbath of rest, holy to the LORD: whosoever doeth any work in the sabbath day, he shall surely be put to death.

31:16    故此，以色列人要世世代代守安息日為永遠的約。
Wherefore the children of Israel shall keep the sabbath, to observe the sabbath throughout their generations, for a perpetual covenant.

31:17    這是我和以色列人永遠的證據，因為六日之內耶和華造天地，第七日便安息舒暢。
It is a sign between me and the children of Israel for ever: for in six days the LORD made heaven and earth, and on the seventh day he rested, and was refreshed.

31:18    耶和華在西奈山和摩西說完了話，就把兩塊法版交給他，是神用指頭寫的石版。
And he gave unto Moses, when he had made an end of communing with him upon mount Sinai, two tables of testimony, tables of stone, written with the finger of God.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


32:1    百姓見摩西遲延不下山，就大家聚集到亞倫那裡，對他說，起來，為我們作神像，可以在我們前面引路，因為領我們出埃及地的那個摩西，我們不知道他遭了什麼事。
And when the people saw that Moses delayed to come down out of the mount, the people gathered themselves together unto Aaron, and said unto him, Up, make us gods, which shall go before us; for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

32:2    亞倫對他們說，你們去摘下你們妻子，兒女耳上的金環，拿來給我。
And Aaron said unto them, Break off the golden earrings, which are in the ears of your wives, of your sons, and of your daughters, and bring them unto me.

32:3    百姓就都摘下他們耳上的金環，拿來給亞倫。
And all the people brake off the golden earrings which were in their ears, and brought them unto Aaron.

32:4    亞倫從他們手裡接過來，鑄了一隻牛犢，用雕刻的器具作成。他們就說，以色列阿，這是領你出埃及地的神。
And he received them at their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool, after he had made it a molten calf: and they said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

32:5    亞倫看見，就在牛犢面前築壇，且宣告說，明日要向耶和華守節。
And when Aaron saw it, he built an altar before it; and Aaron made proclamation, and said, To morrow is a feast to the LORD.

32:6    次日清早，百姓起來獻燔祭和平安祭，就坐下吃喝，起來玩耍。
And they rose up early on the morrow, and offered burnt offerings, and brought peace offerings; and the people sat down to eat and to drink, and rose up to play.

32:7    耶和華吩咐摩西說，下去吧，因為你的百姓，就是你從埃及地領出來的，已經敗壞了。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Go, get thee down; for thy people, which thou broughtest out of the land of Egypt, have corrupted themselves:

32:8    他們快快偏離了我所吩咐的道，為自己鑄了一隻牛犢，向它下拜獻祭，說，以色列阿，這就是領你出埃及地的神。
They have turned aside quickly out of the way which I commanded them: they have made them a molten calf, and have worshipped it, and have sacrificed thereunto, and said, These be thy gods, O Israel, which have brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

32:9    耶和華對摩西說，我看這百姓真是硬著頸項的百姓。
And the LORD said unto Moses, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people:

32:10    你且由著我，我要向他們發烈怒，將他們滅絕，使你的後裔成為大國。
Now therefore let me alone, that my wrath may wax hot against them, and that I may consume them: and I will make of thee a great nation.

32:11    摩西便懇求耶和華他的神說，耶和華阿，你為什麼向你的百姓發烈怒呢，這百姓是你用大力和大能的手從埃及地領出來的。
And Moses besought the LORD his God, and said, LORD, why doth thy wrath wax hot against thy people, which thou hast brought forth out of the land of Egypt with great power, and with a mighty hand?

32:12    為什麼使埃及人議論說，他領他們出去，是要降禍與他們，把他們殺在山中，將他們從地上除滅。求你轉意，不發你的烈怒，後悔，不降禍與你的百姓。
Wherefore should the Egyptians speak, and say, For mischief did he bring them out, to slay them in the mountains, and to consume them from the face of the earth? Turn from thy fierce wrath, and repent of this evil against thy people.

32:13    求你記念你的僕人亞伯拉罕，以撒，以色列。你曾指著自己起誓說，我必使你們的後裔像天上的星那樣多，並且我所應許的這全地，必給你們的後裔，他們要永遠承受為業。
Remember Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, thy servants, to whom thou swarest by thine own self, and saidst unto them, I will multiply your seed as the stars of heaven, and all this land that I have spoken of will I give unto your seed, and they shall inherit it for ever.

32:14    於是耶和華後悔，不把所說的禍降與他的百姓。
And the LORD repented of the evil which he thought to do unto his people.

32:15    摩西轉身下山，手裡拿著兩塊法版。這版是兩面寫的，這面那面都有字，
And Moses turned, and went down from the mount, and the two tables of the testimony were in his hand: the tables were written on both their sides; on the one side and on the other were they written.

32:16    是神的工作，字是神寫的，刻在版上。
And the tables were the work of God, and the writing was the writing of God, graven upon the tables.

32:17    約書亞一聽見百姓呼喊的聲音，就對摩西說，在營裡有爭戰的聲音。
And when Joshua heard the noise of the people as they shouted, he said unto Moses, There is a noise of war in the camp.

32:18    摩西說，這不是人打勝仗的聲音，也不是人打敗仗的聲音，我所聽見的乃是人歌唱的聲音。
And he said, It is not the voice of them that shout for mastery, neither is it the voice of them that cry for being overcome: but the noise of them that sing do I hear.

32:19    摩西挨近營前就看見牛犢，又看見人跳舞，便發烈怒，把兩塊版扔在山下摔碎了，
And it came to pass, as soon as he came nigh unto the camp, that he saw the calf, and the dancing: and Moses' anger waxed hot, and he cast the tables out of his hands, and brake them beneath the mount.

32:20    又將他們所鑄的牛犢用火焚燒，磨得粉碎，撒在水面上，叫以色列人喝。
And he took the calf which they had made, and burnt it in the fire, and ground it to powder, and strawed it upon the water, and made the children of Israel drink of it.

32:21    摩西對亞倫說，這百姓向你作了什麼，你竟使他們陷在大罪裡。
And Moses said unto Aaron, What did this people unto thee, that thou hast brought so great a sin upon them?

32:22    亞倫說，求我主不要發烈怒。這百姓專於作惡，是你知道的。
And Aaron said, Let not the anger of my lord wax hot: thou knowest the people, that they are set on mischief.

32:23    他們對我說，你為我們作神像，可以在我們前面引路，因為領我們出埃及地的那個摩西，我們不知道他遭了什麼事。
For they said unto me, Make us gods, which shall go before us: for as for this Moses, the man that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, we wot not what is become of him.

32:24    我對他們說，凡有金環的可以摘下來，他們就給了我。我把金環扔在火中，這牛犢便出來了。
And I said unto them, Whosoever hath any gold, let them break it off. So they gave it me: then I cast it into the fire, and there came out this calf.

32:25    摩西見百姓放肆（亞倫縱容他們，使他們在仇敵中間被譏刺），
And when Moses saw that the people were naked; (for Aaron had made them naked unto their shame among their enemies:)

32:26    就站在營門中，說，凡屬耶和華的，都要到我這裡來。於是利未的子孫都到他那裡聚集。
Then Moses stood in the gate of the camp, and said, Who is on the LORD's side? let him come unto me. And all the sons of Levi gathered themselves together unto him.

32:27    他對他們說，耶和華以色列的神這樣說，你們各人把刀跨在腰間，在營中往來，從這門到那門，各人殺他的弟兄與同伴並鄰舍。
And he said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Put every man his sword by his side, and go in and out from gate to gate throughout the camp, and slay every man his brother, and every man his companion, and every man his neighbour.

32:28    利未的子孫照摩西的話行了。那一天百姓中被殺的約有三千。
And the children of Levi did according to the word of Moses: and there fell of the people that day about three thousand men.

32:29    摩西說，今天你們要自潔，歸耶和華為聖，各人攻擊他的兒子和弟兄，使耶和華賜福與你們。
For Moses had said, Consecrate yourselves today to the LORD, even every man upon his son, and upon his brother; that he may bestow upon you a blessing this day.

32:30    到了第二天，摩西對百姓說，你們犯了大罪。我如今要上耶和華那裡去，或者可以為你們贖罪。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Moses said unto the people, Ye have sinned a great sin: and now I will go up unto the LORD; peradventure I shall make an atonement for your sin.

32:31    摩西回到耶和華那裡，說，唉，這百姓犯了大罪，為自己作了金像。
And Moses returned unto the LORD, and said, Oh, this people have sinned a great sin, and have made them gods of gold.

32:32    倘或你肯赦免他們的罪，。。。。。。不然，求你從你所寫的冊上塗抹我的名。
Yet now, if thou wilt forgive their sin--; and if not, blot me, I pray thee, out of thy book which thou hast written.

32:33    耶和華對摩西說，誰得罪我，我就從我的冊上塗抹誰的名。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Whosoever hath sinned against me, him will I blot out of my book.

32:34    現在你去領這百姓，往我所告訴你的地方去，我的使者必在你前面引路，只是到我追討的日子，我必追討他們的罪。
Therefore now go, lead the people unto the place of which I have spoken unto thee: behold, mine Angel shall go before thee: nevertheless in the day when I visit I will visit their sin upon them.

32:35    耶和華殺百姓的緣故是因他們同亞倫作了牛犢。
And the LORD plagued the people, because they made the calf, which Aaron made.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


33:1    耶和華吩咐摩西說，我曾起誓應許亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各說，要將迦南地賜給你的後裔。現在你和你從埃及地所領出來的百姓，要從這裡往那地去。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Depart, and go up hence, thou and the people which thou hast brought up out of the land of Egypt, unto the land which I sware unto Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, saying, Unto thy seed will I give it:

33:2    我要差遣使者在你前面，攆出迦南人，亞摩利人，赫人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人，
And I will send an angel before thee; and I will drive out the Canaanite, the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite:

33:3    領你到那流奶與蜜之地。我自己不同你們上去，因為你們是硬著頸項的百姓，恐怕我在路上把你們滅絕。
Unto a land flowing with milk and honey: for I will not go up in the midst of thee; for thou art a stiffnecked people: lest I consume thee in the way.

33:4    百姓聽見這凶信就悲哀，也沒有人佩戴妝飾。
And when the people heard these evil tidings, they mourned: and no man did put on him his ornaments.

33:5    耶和華對摩西說，你告訴以色列人說，耶和華說，你們是硬著頸項的百姓，我若一霎時臨到你們中間，必滅絕你們。現在你們要把身上的妝飾摘下來，使我可以知道怎樣待你們。
For the LORD had said unto Moses, Say unto the children of Israel, Ye are a stiffnecked people: I will come up into the midst of thee in a moment, and consume thee: therefore now put off thy ornaments from thee, that I may know what to do unto thee.

33:6    以色列人從住何烈山以後，就把身上的妝飾摘得乾淨。
And the children of Israel stripped themselves of their ornaments by the mount Horeb.

33:7    摩西素常將帳棚支搭在營外，離營卻遠，他稱這帳棚為會幕。凡求問耶和華的，就到營外的會幕那裡去。
And Moses took the tabernacle, and pitched it without the camp, afar off from the camp, and called it the Tabernacle of the congregation. And it came to pass, that every one which sought the LORD went out unto the tabernacle of the congregation, which was without the camp.

33:8    當摩西出營到會幕去的時候，百姓就都起來，各人站在自己帳棚的門口，望著摩西，直等到他進了會幕。
And it came to pass, when Moses went out unto the tabernacle, that all the people rose up, and stood every man at his tent door, and looked after Moses, until he was gone into the tabernacle.

33:9    摩西進會幕的時候，雲柱降下來，立在會幕的門前，耶和華便與摩西說話。
And it came to pass, as Moses entered into the tabernacle, the cloudy pillar descended, and stood at the door of the tabernacle, and the Lord talked with Moses.

33:10    眾百姓看見雲柱立在會幕門前，就都起來，各人在自己帳棚的門口下拜。
And all the people saw the cloudy pillar stand at the tabernacle door: and all the people rose up and worshipped, every man in his tent door.

33:11    耶和華與摩西面對面說話，好像人與朋友說話一般。摩西轉到營裡去，惟有他的幫手，一個少年人嫩的兒子約書亞，不離開會幕。
And the LORD spake unto Moses face to face, as a man speaketh unto his friend. And he turned again into the camp: but his servant Joshua, the son of Nun, a young man, departed not out of the tabernacle.

33:12    摩西對耶和華說，你吩咐我說，將這百姓領上去，卻沒有叫我知道你要打發誰與我同去，只說，我按你的名認識你，你在我眼前也蒙了恩。
And Moses said unto the LORD, See, thou sayest unto me, Bring up this people: and thou hast not let me know whom thou wilt send with me. Yet thou hast said, I know thee by name, and thou hast also found grace in my sight.

33:13    我如今若在你眼前蒙恩，求你將你的道指示我，使我可以認識你，好在你眼前蒙恩。求你想到這民是你的民。
Now therefore, I pray thee, if I have found grace in thy sight, shew me now thy way, that I may know thee, that I may find grace in thy sight: and consider that this nation is thy people.

33:14    耶和華說，我必親自和你同去，使你得安息。
And he said, My presence shall go with thee, and I will give thee rest.

33:15    摩西說，你若不親自和我同去，就不要把我們從這裡領上去。
And he said unto him, If thy presence go not with me, carry us not up hence.

33:16    人在何事上得以知道我和你的百姓在你眼前蒙恩呢，豈不是因你與我們同去，使我和你的百姓與地上的萬民有分別嗎。
For wherein shall it be known here that I and thy people have found grace in thy sight? is it not in that thou goest with us? so shall we be separated, I and thy people, from all the people that are upon the face of the earth.

33:17    耶和華對摩西說，你這所求的我也要行，因為你在我眼前蒙了恩，並且我按你的名認識你。
And the LORD said unto Moses, I will do this thing also that thou hast spoken: for thou hast found grace in my sight, and I know thee by name.

33:18    摩西說，求你顯出你的榮耀給我看。
And he said, I beseech thee, shew me thy glory.

33:19    耶和華說，我要顯我一切的恩慈，在你面前經過，宣告我的名。我要恩待誰就恩待誰，要憐憫誰就憐憫誰，
And he said, I will make all my goodness pass before thee, and I will proclaim the name of the LORD before thee; and will be gracious to whom I will be gracious, and will shew mercy on whom I will shew mercy.

33:20    又說，你不能看見我的面，因為人見我的面不能存活。
And he said, Thou canst not see my face: for there shall no man see me, and live.

33:21    耶和華說，看哪，在我這裡有地方，你要站在磐石上。
And the LORD said, Behold, there is a place by me, and thou shalt stand upon a rock:

33:22    我的榮耀經過的時候，我必將你放在磐石穴中，用我的手遮掩你，等我過去，
And it shall come to pass, while my glory passeth by, that I will put thee in a clift of the rock, and will cover thee with my hand while I pass by:

33:23    然後我要將我的手收回，你就得見我的背，卻不得見我的面。
And I will take away mine hand, and thou shalt see my back parts: but my face shall not be seen.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


34:1    耶和華吩咐摩西說，你要鑿出兩塊石版，和先前你摔碎的那版一樣，其上的字我要寫在這版上。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first: and I will write upon these tables the words that were in the first tables, which thou brakest.

34:2    明日早晨，你要預備好了，上西奈山，在山頂上站在我面前。
And be ready in the morning, and come up in the morning unto mount Sinai, and present thyself there to me in the top of the mount.

34:3    誰也不可和你一同上去，遍山都不可有人，在山根也不可叫羊群牛群吃草。
And no man shall come up with thee, neither let any man be seen throughout all the mount; neither let the flocks nor herds feed before that mount.

34:4    摩西就鑿出兩塊石版，和先前的一樣。清晨起來，照耶和華所吩咐的上西奈山去，手裡拿著兩塊石版。
And he hewed two tables of stone like unto the first; and Moses rose up early in the morning, and went up unto mount Sinai, as the LORD had commanded him, and took in his hand the two tables of stone.

34:5    耶和華在雲中降臨，和摩西一同站在那裡，宣告耶和華的名。
And the LORD descended in the cloud, and stood with him there, and proclaimed the name of the LORD.

34:6    耶和華在他面前宣告說，耶和華，耶和華，是有憐憫有恩典的神，不輕易發怒，並有豐盛的慈愛和誠實。
And the LORD passed by before him, and proclaimed, The LORD, The LORD God, merciful and gracious, longsuffering, and abundant in goodness and truth,

34:7    為千萬人存留慈愛，赦免罪孽，過犯，和罪惡，萬不以有罪的為無罪，必追討他的罪，自父及子，直到三，四代。
Keeping mercy for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, and that will by no means clear the guilty; visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children, and upon the children's children, unto the third and to the fourth generation.

34:8    摩西急忙伏地下拜，
And Moses made haste, and bowed his head toward the earth, and worshipped.

34:9    說，主阿，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你在我們中間同行，因為這是硬著頸項的百姓。又求你赦免我們的罪孽和罪惡，以我們為你的產業。
And he said, If now I have found grace in thy sight, O LORD, let my LORD, I pray thee, go among us; for it is a stiffnecked people; and pardon our iniquity and our sin, and take us for thine inheritance.

34:10    耶和華說，我要立約，要在百姓面前行奇妙的事，是在遍地萬國中所未曾行的。在你四圍的外邦人就要看見耶和華的作為，因我向你所行的是可畏懼的事。
And he said, Behold, I make a covenant: before all thy people I will do marvels, such as have not been done in all the earth, nor in any nation: and all the people among which thou art shall see the work of the LORD: for it is a terrible thing that I will do with thee.

34:11    我今天所吩咐你的，你要謹守。我要從你面前攆出亞摩利人，迦南人，赫人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人。
Observe thou that which I command thee this day: behold, I drive out before thee the Amorite, and the Canaanite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Hivite, and the Jebusite.

34:12    你要謹慎，不可與你所去那地的居民立約，恐怕成為你們中間的網羅，
Take heed to thyself, lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land whither thou goest, lest it be for a snare in the midst of thee:

34:13    卻要拆毀他們的祭壇，打碎他們的柱像，砍下他們的木偶。
But ye shall destroy their altars, break their images, and cut down their groves:

34:14    不可敬拜別神，因為耶和華是忌邪的神，名為忌邪蛇。
For thou shalt worship no other god: for the LORD, whose name is Jealous, is a jealous God:

34:15    只怕你與那地的居民立約，百姓隨從他們的神，就行邪淫，祭祀他們的神，有人叫你，你便吃他的祭物，
Lest thou make a covenant with the inhabitants of the land, and they go a whoring after their gods, and do sacrifice unto their gods, and one call thee, and thou eat of his sacrifice;

34:16    又為你的兒子娶他們的女兒為妻，他們的女兒隨從他們的神，就行邪淫，使你的兒子也隨從他們的神行邪淫。
And thou take of their daughters unto thy sons, and their daughters go a whoring after their gods, and make thy sons go a whoring after their gods.

34:17    不可為自己鑄造神像。
Thou shalt make thee no molten gods.

34:18    你要守除酵節，照我所吩咐你的，在亞筆月內所定的日期吃無酵餅七天，因為你是這亞筆月內出了埃及。
The feast of unleavened bread shalt thou keep. Seven days thou shalt eat unleavened bread, as I commanded thee, in the time of the month Abib: for in the month Abib thou camest out from Egypt.

34:19    凡頭生的都是我的，一切牲畜頭生的，無論是牛是羊，公的都是我的。
All that openeth the matrix is mine; and every firstling among thy cattle, whether ox or sheep, that is male.

34:20    頭生的驢要用羊羔代贖，若不代贖就要打折它的頸項。凡頭生的兒子都要贖出來。誰也不可空手朝見我。
But the firstling of an ass thou shalt redeem with a lamb: and if thou redeem him not, then shalt thou break his neck. All the firstborn of thy sons thou shalt redeem. And none shall appear before me empty.

34:21    你六日要作工，第七日要安息，雖在耕種收割的時候也要安息。
Six days thou shalt work, but on the seventh day thou shalt rest: in earing time and in harvest thou shalt rest.

34:22    在收割初熟麥子的時候要守七七節，又在年底要守收藏節。
And thou shalt observe the feast of weeks, of the firstfruits of wheat harvest, and the feast of ingathering at the year's end.

34:23    你們一切男丁要一年三次朝見主耶和華以色列的神。
Thrice in the year shall all your menchildren appear before the LORD God, the God of Israel.

34:24    我要從你面前趕出外邦人，擴張你的境界。你一年三次上去朝見耶和華你神的時候，必沒有人貪慕你的地土。
For I will cast out the nations before thee, and enlarge thy borders: neither shall any man desire thy land, when thou shalt go up to appear before the LORD thy God thrice in the year.

34:25    你不可將我祭物的血和有酵的餅一同獻上。逾越節的祭物也不可留到早晨。
Thou shalt not offer the blood of my sacrifice with leaven; neither shall the sacrifice of the feast of the passover be left unto the morning.

34:26    地裡首先初熟之物要送到耶和華你神的殿。不可用山羊羔母的奶煮山羊羔。
The first of the firstfruits of thy land thou shalt bring unto the house of the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.

34:27    耶和華吩咐摩西說，你要將這些話寫上，因為我是按這話與你和以色列人立約。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Write thou these words: for after the tenor of these words I have made a covenant with thee and with Israel.

34:28    摩西在耶和華那裡四十晝夜，也不吃飯也不喝水。耶和華將這約的話，就是十條誡，寫在兩塊版上。
And he was there with the LORD forty days and forty nights; he did neither eat bread, nor drink water. And he wrote upon the tables the words of the covenant, the ten commandments.

34:29    摩西手裡拿著兩塊法版下西奈山的時候，不知道自己的麵皮因耶和華和他說話就發了光。
And it came to pass, when Moses came down from mount Sinai with the two tables of testimony in Moses' hand, when he came down from the mount, that Moses wist not that the skin of his face shone while he talked with him.

34:30    亞倫和以色列眾人看見摩西的麵皮發光就怕挨近他。
And when Aaron and all the children of Israel saw Moses, behold, the skin of his face shone; and they were afraid to come nigh him.

34:31    摩西叫他們來，於是亞倫和會眾的官長都到他那裡去，摩西就與他們說話。
And Moses called unto them; and Aaron and all the rulers of the congregation returned unto him: and Moses talked with them.

34:32    隨後以色列眾人都近前來，他就把耶和華在西奈山與他所說的一切話都吩咐他們。
And afterward all the children of Israel came nigh: and he gave them in commandment all that the LORD had spoken with him in mount Sinai.

34:33    摩西與他們說完了話就用帕子蒙上臉。
And till Moses had done speaking with them, he put a vail on his face.

34:34    但摩西進到耶和華面前與他說話就揭去帕子，及至出來的時候便將耶和華所吩咐的告訴以色列人。
But when Moses went in before the LORD to speak with him, he took the vail off, until he came out. And he came out, and spake unto the children of Israel that which he was commanded.

34:35    以色列人看見摩西的麵皮發光。摩西又用帕子蒙上臉，等到他進去與耶和華說話，就揭去帕子。
And the children of Israel saw the face of Moses, that the skin of Moses' face shone: and Moses put the vail upon his face again, until he went in to speak with him.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


35:1    摩西招聚以色列全會眾，對他們說，這是耶和華所吩咐的話，叫你們照著行，
And Moses gathered all the congregation of the children of Israel together, and said unto them, These are the words which the LORD hath commanded, that ye should do them.

35:2    六日要作工，第七日乃為聖日，當向耶和華守為安息聖日。凡這日之內作工的，必把他治死。
Six days shall work be done, but on the seventh day there shall be to you an holy day, a sabbath of rest to the LORD: whosoever doeth work therein shall be put to death.

35:3    當安息日，不可在你們一切的住處生火。
Ye shall kindle no fire throughout your habitations upon the sabbath day.

35:4    摩西對以色列全會眾說，耶和華所吩咐的是這樣，
And Moses spake unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD commanded, saying,

35:5    你們中間要拿禮物獻給耶和華，凡樂意獻的可以拿耶和華的禮物來，就是金，銀，銅，
Take ye from among you an offering unto the LORD: whosoever is of a willing heart, let him bring it, an offering of the LORD; gold, and silver, and brass,

35:6    藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，細麻，山羊毛，
And blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair,

35:7    染紅的公羊皮，海狗皮，皂莢木，
And rams' skins dyed red, and badgers' skins, and shittim wood,

35:8    點燈的油，並作膏油和香的香料，
And oil for the light, and spices for anointing oil, and for the sweet incense,

35:9    紅瑪瑙與別樣的寶石，可以鑲嵌在以弗得和胸牌上。
And onyx stones, and stones to be set for the ephod, and for the breastplate.

35:10    你們中間凡心裡有智慧的都要來作耶和華一切所吩咐的，
And every wise hearted among you shall come, and make all that the LORD hath commanded;

35:11    就是帳幕和帳幕的罩棚，並帳幕的蓋，鉤子，板，閂，柱子，帶卯的座，
The tabernacle, his tent, and his covering, his taches, and his boards, his bars, his pillars, and his sockets,

35:12    櫃和櫃的槓，施恩座和遮掩櫃的幔子，
The ark, and the staves thereof, with the mercy seat, and the vail of the covering,

35:13    桌子和桌子的槓與桌子的一切器具，並陳設餅，
The table, and his staves, and all his vessels, and the shewbread,

35:14    燈臺和燈臺的器具，燈盞並點燈的油，
The candlestick also for the light, and his furniture, and his lamps, with the oil for the light,

35:15    香壇和壇的槓，膏油和馨香的香料，並帳幕門口的簾子，
And the incense altar, and his staves, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the door at the entering in of the tabernacle,

35:16    燔祭壇和壇的銅網，壇的槓並壇的一切器具，洗濯盆和盆座，
The altar of burnt offering, with his brasen grate, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot,

35:17    院子的帷子和帷子的柱子，帶卯的座和院子的門簾，
The hangings of the court, his pillars, and their sockets, and the hanging for the door of the court,

35:18    帳幕的橛子並院子的橛子，和這兩處的繩子，
The pins of the tabernacle, and the pins of the court, and their cords,

35:19    精工作的禮服和祭司亞倫並他兒子在聖所用以供祭司職分的聖衣。
The cloths of service, to do service in the holy place, the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and the garments of his sons, to minister in the priest's office.

35:20    以色列全會眾從摩西面前退去。
And all the congregation of the children of Israel departed from the presence of Moses.

35:21    凡心裡受感和甘心樂意的都拿耶和華的禮物來，用以作會幕和其中一切的使用，又用以作聖衣。
And they came, every one whose heart stirred him up, and every one whom his spirit made willing, and they brought the LORD's offering to the work of the tabernacle of the congregation, and for all his service, and for the holy garments.

35:22    凡心裡樂意獻禮物的，連男帶女，各將金器，就是胸前呻，耳環（或作鼻環），列印的戒指，和手釧帶來獻給耶和華。
And they came, both men and women, as many as were willing hearted, and brought bracelets, and earrings, and rings, and tablets, all jewels of gold: and every man that offered offered an offering of gold unto the LORD.

35:23    凡有藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，細麻，山羊毛，染紅的公羊皮，海狗皮的，都拿來，
And every man, with whom was found blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine linen, and goats' hair, and red skins of rams, and badgers' skins, brought them.

35:24    凡獻銀子和銅給耶和華為禮物的都拿了來，凡有皂莢木可作什麼使用的也拿了來。
Every one that did offer an offering of silver and brass brought the LORD's offering: and every man, with whom was found shittim wood for any work of the service, brought it.

35:25    凡心中有智慧的婦女親手紡線，把所紡的藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和細麻都拿了來。
And all the women that were wise hearted did spin with their hands, and brought that which they had spun, both of blue, and of purple, and of scarlet, and of fine linen.

35:26    凡有智慧，心裡受感的婦女就紡山羊毛。
And all the women whose heart stirred them up in wisdom spun goats' hair.

35:27    眾官長把紅瑪瑙和別樣的寶石，可以鑲嵌在以弗得與胸牌上的，都拿了來，
And the rulers brought onyx stones, and stones to be set, for the ephod, and for the breastplate;

35:28    又拿香料作香，拿油點燈，作膏油。
And spice, and oil for the light, and for the anointing oil, and for the sweet incense.

35:29    以色列人，無論男女，凡甘心樂意獻禮物給耶和華的，都將禮物拿來，作耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的一切工。
The children of Israel brought a willing offering unto the LORD, every man and woman, whose heart made them willing to bring for all manner of work, which the LORD had commanded to be made by the hand of Moses.

35:30    摩西對以色列人說，猶大支派中，戶珥的孫子，烏利的兒子比撒列，耶和華已經題他的名召他，
And Moses said unto the children of Israel, See, the LORD hath called by name Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah;

35:31    又以神的靈充滿了他，使他有智慧，聰明，知識，能作各樣的工，
And he hath filled him with the spirit of God, in wisdom, in understanding, and in knowledge, and in all manner of workmanship;

35:32    能想出巧工，用金，銀，銅製造各物，
And to devise curious works, to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass,

35:33    又能刻寶石，可以鑲嵌，能雕刻木頭，能作各樣的巧工。
And in the cutting of stones, to set them, and in carving of wood, to make any manner of cunning work.

35:34    耶和華又使他，和但支派中亞希撒抹的兒子亞何利亞伯，心裡靈明，能教導人。
And he hath put in his heart that he may teach, both he, and Aholiab, the son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan.

35:35    耶和華使他們的心滿有智慧，能作各樣的工，無論是雕刻的工，巧匠的工，用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和細麻，繡花的工，並機匠的工，他們都能作，也能想出奇巧的工。
Them hath he filled with wisdom of heart, to work all manner of work, of the engraver, and of the cunning workman, and of the embroiderer, in blue, and in purple, in scarlet, and in fine linen, and of the weaver, even of them that do any work, and of those that devise cunning work.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


36:1    比撒列和亞何利亞伯，並一切心裡有智慧的，就是蒙耶和華賜智慧聰明，叫他知道作聖所各樣使用之工的，都要照耶和華所吩咐的作工。
Then wrought Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whom the LORD put wisdom and understanding to know how to work all manner of work for the service of the sanctuary, according to all that the LORD had commanded.

36:2    凡耶和華賜他心裡有智慧，而且受感前來作這工的，摩西把他們和比撒列並亞何利亞伯一同召來。
And Moses called Bezaleel and Aholiab, and every wise hearted man, in whose heart the LORD had put wisdom, even every one whose heart stirred him up to come unto the work to do it:

36:3    這些人就從摩西收了以色列人為作聖所並聖所使用之工所拿來的禮物。百姓每早晨還把甘心獻的禮物拿來。
And they received of Moses all the offering, which the children of Israel had brought for the work of the service of the sanctuary, to make it withal. And they brought yet unto him free offerings every morning.

36:4    凡作聖所一切工的智慧人各都離開他所作的工，
And all the wise men, that wrought all the work of the sanctuary, came every man from his work which they made;

36:5    來對摩西說，百姓為爺和華吩咐使用之工所拿來的，富富有餘。
And they spake unto Moses, saying, The people bring much more than enough for the service of the work, which the LORD commanded to make.

36:6    摩西傳命，他們就在全營中宣告說，無論男女，不必再為聖所拿什麼禮物來。這樣才攔住百姓不再拿禮物來。
And Moses gave commandment, and they caused it to be proclaimed throughout the camp, saying, Let neither man nor woman make any more work for the offering of the sanctuary. So the people were restrained from bringing.

36:7    因為他們所有的材料夠作一切當作的物，而且有餘。
For the stuff they had was sufficient for all the work to make it, and too much.

36:8    他們中間，凡心裡有智慧作工的，用十幅幔子作帳幕。這幔子是比撒列用捻的細麻和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線製造的，並用巧匠的手工繡上基路伯。
And every wise hearted man among them that wrought the work of the tabernacle made ten curtains of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet: with cherubims of cunning work made he them.

36:9    每幅幔子長二十八肘，寬四肘，都是一樣的尺寸。
The length of one curtain was twenty and eight cubits, and the breadth of one curtain four cubits: the curtains were all of one size.

36:10    他使這五幅幔子幅幅相連，又使那五幅幔子幅幅相連，
And he coupled the five curtains one unto another: and the other five curtains he coupled one unto another.

36:11    在這相連的幔子末幅邊上作藍色的鈕釦，在那相連的幔子末幅邊上也照樣作，
And he made loops of blue on the edge of one curtain from the selvedge in the coupling: likewise he made in the uttermost side of another curtain, in the coupling of the second.

36:12    在這相連的幔子上作五十個鈕釦，在那相連的幔子上也作五十個鈕釦，都是兩兩相對，
Fifty loops made he in one curtain, and fifty loops made he in the edge of the curtain which was in the coupling of the second: the loops held one curtain to another.

36:13    又作五十個金鉤，使幔子相連。這才成了一個帳幕。
And he made fifty taches of gold, and coupled the curtains one unto another with the taches: so it became one tabernacle.

36:14    他用山羊毛織十一幅幔子，作為帳幕以上的罩棚。
And he made curtains of goats' hair for the tent over the tabernacle: eleven curtains he made them.

36:15    每幅幔子長三十肘，寬四肘，十一幅幔子都是一樣的尺寸。
The length of one curtain was thirty cubits, and four cubits was the breadth of one curtain: the eleven curtains were of one size.

36:16    他把五幅幔子連成一幅，又把六幅幔子連成一幅，
And he coupled five curtains by themselves, and six curtains by themselves.

36:17    在這相連的幔子末幅邊上作五十個鈕釦，在那相連的幔子末幅邊上也作五十個鈕釦，
And he made fifty loops upon the uttermost edge of the curtain in the coupling, and fifty loops made he upon the edge of the curtain which coupleth the second.

36:18    又作五十個銅鉤，使罩棚連成一個，
And he made fifty taches of brass to couple the tent together, that it might be one.

36:19    並用染紅的公羊皮作罩棚的蓋，再用海狗皮作一層罩棚上的頂蓋。
And he made a covering for the tent of rams' skins dyed red, and a covering of badgers' skins above that.

36:20    他用皂莢木作帳幕的豎板。
And he made boards for the tabernacle of shittim wood, standing up.

36:21    每塊長十肘，寬一肘半，
The length of a board was ten cubits, and the breadth of a board one cubit and a half.

36:22    每塊有兩榫相對。帳幕一切的板都是這樣作。
One board had two tenons, equally distant one from another: thus did he make for all the boards of the tabernacle.

36:23    帳幕的南面作板二十塊。
And he made boards for the tabernacle; twenty boards for the south side southward:

36:24    在這二十塊板底下又作四十個帶卯的銀座，兩卯接這塊板上的兩榫，兩卯接那塊板上的兩榫。
And forty sockets of silver he made under the twenty boards; two sockets under one board for his two tenons, and two sockets under another board for his two tenons.

36:25    帳幕的第二面，就是北面，也作板二十塊
And for the other side of the tabernacle, which is toward the north corner, he made twenty boards,

36:26    和帶卯的銀座四十個，這板底下有兩卯，那板底下也有兩卯。
And their forty sockets of silver; two sockets under one board, and two sockets under another board.

36:27    帳幕的後面，就是西面，作板六塊。
And for the sides of the tabernacle westward he made six boards.

36:28    帳幕後面的拐角作板兩塊。
And two boards made he for the corners of the tabernacle in the two sides.

36:29    板的下半截是雙的，上半截是整的，直到第一個環子，在帳幕的兩個拐角上都是這樣作。
And they were coupled beneath, and coupled together at the head thereof, to one ring: thus he did to both of them in both the corners.

36:30    有八塊板和十六個帶卯的銀座，每塊板底下有兩卯。
And there were eight boards; and their sockets were sixteen sockets of silver, under every board two sockets.

36:31    他用皂莢木作閂，為帳幕這面的板作五閂，
And he made bars of shittim wood; five for the boards of the one side of the tabernacle,

36:32    為帳幕那面的板作五閂，又為帳幕後面的板作五閂，
And five bars for the boards of the other side of the tabernacle, and five bars for the boards of the tabernacle for the sides westward.

36:33    使板腰間的中閂從這一頭通到那一頭。
And he made the middle bar to shoot through the boards from the one end to the other.

36:34    用金子將板包裹，又作板上的金環套閂，閂也用金子包裹。
And he overlaid the boards with gold, and made their rings of gold to be places for the bars, and overlaid the bars with gold.

36:35    他用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和捻的細麻織幔子，以巧匠的手工繡上基路伯。
And he made a vail of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: with cherubims made he it of cunning work.

36:36    為幔子作四根皂莢木柱子，用金包裹，柱子上有金鉤，又為柱子鑄了四個帶卯的銀座。
And he made thereunto four pillars of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold: their hooks were of gold; and he cast for them four sockets of silver.



36:37    拿藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和捻的細麻，用繡花的手工織帳幕的門簾，
And he made an hanging for the tabernacle door of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen, of needlework;

36:38    又為簾子作五根柱子和柱子上的鉤子，用金子把柱頂和柱子上的杆子包裹。柱子有五個帶卯的座，是銅的。
And the five pillars of it with their hooks: and he overlaid their chapiters and their fillets with gold: but their five sockets were of brass.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 37 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


37:1    比撒列用皂莢木作櫃，長二肘半，寬一肘半，高一肘半。
And Bezaleel made the ark of shittim wood: two cubits and a half was the length of it, and a cubit and a half the breadth of it, and a cubit and a half the height of it:

37:2    裡外包上精金，四圍鑲上金牙邊，
And he overlaid it with pure gold within and without, and made a crown of gold to it round about.

37:3    又鑄四個金環，安在櫃的四腳上，這邊兩環，那邊兩環。
And he cast for it four rings of gold, to be set by the four corners of it; even two rings upon the one side of it, and two rings upon the other side of it.

37:4    用皂莢木作兩根槓，用金包裹。
And he made staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.

37:5    把槓穿在櫃旁的環內，以便抬櫃。
And he put the staves into the rings by the sides of the ark, to bear the ark.

37:6    用精金作施恩座，長二肘半，寬一肘半。
And he made the mercy seat of pure gold: two cubits and a half was the length thereof, and one cubit and a half the breadth thereof.

37:7    用金子錘出兩個基路伯來，安在施恩座的兩頭，
And he made two cherubims of gold, beaten out of one piece made he them, on the two ends of the mercy seat;

37:8    這頭作一個基路伯，那頭作一個基路伯，二基路伯接連一塊，在施恩座的兩頭。
One cherub on the end on this side, and another cherub on the other end on that side: out of the mercy seat made he the cherubims on the two ends thereof.

37:9    二基路伯高張翅膀，遮掩施恩座，基路伯是臉對臉，朝著施恩座。
And the cherubims spread out their wings on high, and covered with their wings over the mercy seat, with their faces one to another; even to the mercy seatward were the faces of the cherubims.

37:10    他用皂莢木作一張桌子，長二肘，寬一肘，高一肘半，
And he made the table of shittim wood: two cubits was the length thereof, and a cubit the breadth thereof, and a cubit and a half the height thereof:

37:11    又包上精金，四圍鑲上金牙邊。
And he overlaid it with pure gold, and made thereunto a crown of gold round about.

37:12    桌子的四圍各作一掌寬的橫樑，橫樑上鑲著金牙邊，
Also he made thereunto a border of an handbreadth round about; and made a crown of gold for the border thereof round about.

37:13    又鑄了四個金環，安在桌子四腳的四角上。
And he cast for it four rings of gold, and put the rings upon the four corners that were in the four feet thereof.

37:14    安環子的地方是挨近橫樑，可以穿槓抬桌子。
Over against the border were the rings, the places for the staves to bear the table.

37:15    他用皂莢木作兩根槓，用金包裹，以便抬桌子，
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold, to bear the table.

37:16    又用精金作桌子上的器皿，就是盤子，調羹，並奠酒的瓶和爵。
And he made the vessels which were upon the table, his dishes, and his spoons, and his bowls, and his covers to cover withal, of pure gold.

37:17    他用精金作一個燈臺，這燈臺的座和幹，與杯，球，花，都是接連一塊錘出來的。
And he made the candlestick of pure gold: of beaten work made he the candlestick; his shaft, and his branch, his bowls, his knops, and his flowers, were of the same:

37:18    燈臺兩旁杈出六個枝子，這旁三個，那旁三個。
And six branches going out of the sides thereof; three branches of the candlestick out of the one side thereof, and three branches of the candlestick out of the other side thereof:

37:19    這旁每枝上有三個杯，形狀像杏花，有球有花，那旁每枝上也有三個杯，形狀像杏花，有球有花。從燈臺杈出來的六個枝子都是如此。
Three bowls made after the fashion of almonds in one branch, a knop and a flower; and three bowls made like almonds in another branch, a knop and a flower: so throughout the six branches going out of the candlestick.

37:20    燈臺上有四個杯，形狀像杏花，有球有花。
And in the candlestick were four bowls made like almonds, his knops, and his flowers:

37:21    燈臺每兩個枝子以下有球，與枝子接連一塊，燈臺杈出的六個枝子都是如此。
And a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, and a knop under two branches of the same, according to the six branches going out of it.

37:22    球和枝子是接連一塊，都是一塊精金錘出來的。
Their knops and their branches were of the same: all of it was one beaten work of pure gold.

37:23    用精金作燈臺的七個燈盞，並燈臺的臘剪和臘花盤。
And he made his seven lamps, and his snuffers, and his snuffdishes, of pure gold.

37:24    他用精金一他連得作燈臺和燈臺的一切器具。
Of a talent of pure gold made he it, and all the vessels thereof.

37:25    他用皂莢木作香壇，是四方的，長一肘，寬一肘，高二肘，壇的四角與壇接連一塊，
And he made the incense altar of shittim wood: the length of it was a cubit, and the breadth of it a cubit; it was foursquare; and two cubits was the height of it; the horns thereof were of the same.

37:26    又用精金把壇的上面與壇的四面並壇的四角包裹，又在壇的四圍鑲上金牙邊。
And he overlaid it with pure gold, both the top of it, and the sides thereof round about, and the horns of it: also he made unto it a crown of gold round about.

37:27    作兩個金環，安在牙子邊以下，在壇的兩旁，兩根橫撐上，作為穿槓的用處，以便抬壇。
And he made two rings of gold for it under the crown thereof, by the two corners of it, upon the two sides thereof, to be places for the staves to bear it withal.



37:28    用皂莢木作槓，用金包裹。
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with gold.

37:29    又按作香之法作聖膏油和馨香料的淨香。
And he made the holy anointing oil, and the pure incense of sweet spices, according to the work of the apothecary.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 38 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


38:1    他用皂莢木作燔祭壇，是四方的，長五肘，寬五肘，高三肘，
And he made the altar of burnt offering of shittim wood: five cubits was the length thereof, and five cubits the breadth thereof; it was foursquare; and three cubits the height thereof.

38:2    在壇的四拐角上作四個角，與壇接連一塊，用銅把壇包裹。
And he made the horns thereof on the four corners of it; the horns thereof were of the same: and he overlaid it with brass.

38:3    他作壇上的盆，鏟子，盤子，肉鍤子，火鼎，這一切器具都是用銅作的。
And he made all the vessels of the altar, the pots, and the shovels, and the basons, and the fleshhooks, and the firepans: all the vessels thereof made he of brass.

38:4    又為壇作一個銅網，安在壇四面的圍腰板以下，從下達到壇的半腰。
And he made for the altar a brasen grate of network under the compass thereof beneath unto the midst of it.

38:5    為銅網的四角鑄四個環子，作為穿槓的用處。
And he cast four rings for the four ends of the grate of brass, to be places for the staves.

38:6    用皂莢木作槓，用銅包裹，
And he made the staves of shittim wood, and overlaid them with brass.

38:7    把槓穿在壇兩旁的環子內，用以抬壇，並用板作壇，壇是空的。
And he put the staves into the rings on the sides of the altar, to bear it withal; he made the altar hollow with boards.

38:8    他用銅作洗濯盆和盆座，是用會幕門前伺候的婦人之鏡子作的。
And he made the laver of brass, and the foot of it of brass, of the lookingglasses of the women assembling, which assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

38:9    他作帳幕的院子。院子的南面用捻的細麻作帷子，寬一百肘。
And he made the court: on the south side southward the hangings of the court were of fine twined linen, an hundred cubits:

38:10    帷子的柱子二十根，帶卯的銅座二十個，柱子上的鉤子和杆子都是用銀子作的。
Their pillars were twenty, and their brasen sockets twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets were of silver.

38:11    北面也有帷子，寬一百肘。帷子的柱子二十根，帶卯的銅座二十個，柱子上的鉤子和杆子都是用銀子作的。
And for the north side the hangings were an hundred cubits, their pillars were twenty, and their sockets of brass twenty; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.

38:12    院子的西面有帷子，寬五十肘。帷子的柱子十根，帶卯的座十個，柱子的鉤子和杆子都是用銀子作的。
And for the west side were hangings of fifty cubits, their pillars ten, and their sockets ten; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver.

38:13    院子的東面，寬五十肘。
And for the east side eastward fifty cubits.

38:14    *
The hangings of the one side of the gate were fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.

38:15    門這邊的帷子十五肘，那邊也是一樣。帷子的柱子三根，帶卯的座三個。在門的左右各有帷子十五肘，帷子的柱子三根，帶卯的座三個。
And for the other side of the court gate, on this hand and that hand, were hangings of fifteen cubits; their pillars three, and their sockets three.

38:16    院子四面的帷子都是用捻的細麻作的。
All the hangings of the court round about were of fine twined linen.

38:17    柱子帶卯的座是銅的，柱子上的鉤子和杆子是銀的，柱頂是用銀子包的。院子一切的柱子都是用銀杆連絡的。
And the sockets for the pillars were of brass; the hooks of the pillars and their fillets of silver; and the overlaying of their chapiters of silver; and all the pillars of the court were filleted with silver.

38:18    院子的門簾是以繡花的手工，用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和捻的細麻織的，寬二十肘，高五肘，與院子的帷子相配。
And the hanging for the gate of the court was needlework, of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen: and twenty cubits was the length, and the height in the breadth was five cubits, answerable to the hangings of the court.

38:19    帷子的柱子四根，帶卯的銅座四個，柱子上的鉤子和杆子是銀的，柱頂是用銀子包的。
And their pillars were four, and their sockets of brass four; their hooks of silver, and the overlaying of their chapiters and their fillets of silver.

38:20    帳幕一切的橛子和院子四圍的橛子都是銅的。
And all the pins of the tabernacle, and of the court round about, were of brass.

38:21    這是法櫃的帳幕中利未人所用物件的總數，是照摩西的吩咐，經祭司亞倫的兒子以他瑪的手數點的。
This is the sum of the tabernacle, even of the tabernacle of testimony, as it was counted, according to the commandment of Moses, for the service of the Levites, by the hand of Ithamar, son to Aaron the priest.

38:22    凡耶和華所吩咐摩西的都是猶大支派戶珥的孫子，烏利的兒子比撒列作的。
And Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, of the tribe of Judah, made all that the LORD commanded Moses.



38:23    與他同工的有但支派中亞希撒抹的兒子亞何利亞伯，他是雕刻匠，又是巧匠，又能用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，和細麻繡花。
And with him was Aholiab, son of Ahisamach, of the tribe of Dan, an engraver, and a cunning workman, and an embroiderer in blue, and in purple, and in scarlet, and fine linen.

38:24    為聖所一切工作使用所獻的金子，按聖所的平，有二十九他連得並七百三十舍客勒。
All the gold that was occupied for the work in all the work of the holy place, even the gold of the offering, was twenty and nine talents, and seven hundred and thirty shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary.

38:25    會中被數的人所出的銀子，按聖所的平，有一百他連得並一千七百七十五舍客勒。
And the silver of them that were numbered of the congregation was an hundred talents, and a thousand seven hundred and threescore and fifteen shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:

38:26    凡過去歸那些被數之人的，從二十歲以外，有六十萬零三千五百五十人。按聖所的平，每人出銀半舍客勒，就是一比加。
A bekah for every man, that is, half a shekel, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for every one that went to be numbered, from twenty years old and upward, for six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty men.

38:27    用那一百他連得銀子鑄造聖所帶卯的座，和幔鬃柱子帶卯的座，一百他連得共一百帶卯的座，每帶卯的座用一他連得。
And of the hundred talents of silver were cast the sockets of the sanctuary, and the sockets of the vail; an hundred sockets of the hundred talents, a talent for a socket.

38:28    用那一千七百七十五舍客勒銀子作柱子上的鉤子，包裹柱頂並柱子上的杆子。
And of the thousand seven hundred seventy and five shekels he made hooks for the pillars, and overlaid their chapiters, and filleted them.

38:29    所獻的銅有七十他連得並二千四百舍客勒。
And the brass of the offering was seventy talents, and two thousand and four hundred shekels.

38:30    用這銅作會幕門帶卯的座和銅壇，並壇上的銅網和壇的一切器具，
And therewith he made the sockets to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the brasen altar, and the brasen grate for it, and all the vessels of the altar,

38:31    並院子四圍帶卯的座和院門帶卯的座，與帳幕一切的橛子和院子四圍所有的橛子。
And the sockets of the court round about, and the sockets of the court gate, and all the pins of the tabernacle, and all the pins of the court round about.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 39 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )    　


39:1    比撒列用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線作精緻的衣服，在聖所用以供職，又為亞倫作聖衣，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And of the blue, and purple, and scarlet, they made cloths of service, to do service in the holy place, and made the holy garments for Aaron; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:2    他用金線和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻作以弗得，
And he made the ephod of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

39:3    把金子錘成薄片，剪出線來，與藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，用巧匠的手工一同繡上。
And they did beat the gold into thin plates, and cut it into wires, to work it in the blue, and in the purple, and in the scarlet, and in the fine linen, with cunning work.

39:4    又為以弗得作兩條相連的肩帶，接連在以弗得的兩頭。
They made shoulderpieces for it, to couple it together: by the two edges was it coupled together.

39:5    其上巧工織的帶子和以弗得一樣的作法，用以束上，與以弗得接連一塊，是用金線和藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻作的，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And the curious girdle of his ephod, that was upon it, was of the same, according to the work thereof; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:6    又琢出兩塊紅瑪瑙，鑲在金槽上，彷佛刻圖書，按著以色列兒子的名字雕刻，
And they wrought onyx stones inclosed in ouches of gold, graven, as signets are graven, with the names of the children of Israel.

39:7    將這兩塊寶石安在以弗得的兩條肩帶上，為以色列人作紀念石，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And he put them on the shoulders of the ephod, that they should be stones for a memorial to the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:8    他用巧匠的手工作胸牌，和以弗得一樣的作法，用金線與藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻作的。
And he made the breastplate of cunning work, like the work of the ephod; of gold, blue, and purple, and scarlet, and fine twined linen.

39:9    胸牌是四方的，疊為兩層，這兩層長一虎口，寬一虎口，
It was foursquare; they made the breastplate double: a span was the length thereof, and a span the breadth thereof, being doubled.

39:10    上面鑲著寶石四行，第一行是紅寶石，紅璧璽，紅玉，
And they set in it four rows of stones: the first row was a sardius, a topaz, and a carbuncle: this was the first row.

39:11    第二行是綠寶石，藍寶石，金鋼石，
And the second row, an emerald, a sapphire, and a diamond.

39:12    第三行是紫瑪瑙，白瑪瑙，紫晶，
And the third row, a ligure, an agate, and an amethyst.

39:13    第四行是水蒼玉，紅瑪瑙，碧玉。這都鑲在金槽中。
And the fourth row, a beryl, an onyx, and a jasper: they were inclosed in ouches of gold in their inclosings.

39:14    這些寶石都是按著以色列十二個兒子的名字，彷佛刻圖書，刻十二個支派的名字。
And the stones were according to the names of the children of Israel, twelve, according to their names, like the engravings of a signet, every one with his name, according to the twelve tribes.

39:15    在胸牌上，用精金擰成如繩子的鏈子。
And they made upon the breastplate chains at the ends, of wreathen work of pure gold.

39:16    又作兩個金槽和兩個金環，安在胸牌的兩頭。
And they made two ouches of gold, and two gold rings; and put the two rings in the two ends of the breastplate.

39:17    把那兩條擰成的金鍊子穿過胸牌兩頭的環子，
And they put the two wreathen chains of gold in the two rings on the ends of the breastplate.

39:18    又把鏈子的那兩頭接在兩槽上，安在以弗得前面肩帶上。
And the two ends of the two wreathen chains they fastened in the two ouches, and put them on the shoulderpieces of the ephod, before it.

39:19    作兩個金環，安在胸牌的兩頭，在以弗得裡面的邊上，
And they made two rings of gold, and put them on the two ends of the breastplate, upon the border of it, which was on the side of the ephod inward.

39:20    又作兩個金環，安在以弗得前面兩條肩帶的下邊，挨近相接之處，在以弗得巧工織的帶子以上。
And they made two other golden rings, and put them on the two sides of the ephod underneath, toward the forepart of it, over against the other coupling thereof, above the curious girdle of the ephod.

39:21    用一條藍細帶子把胸牌的環子和以弗得的環子繫住，使胸牌貼在以弗得巧工織的帶子上，不可與以弗得離縫，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And they did bind the breastplate by his rings unto the rings of the ephod with a lace of blue, that it might be above the curious girdle of the ephod, and that the breastplate might not be loosed from the ephod; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:22    他用織工作以弗得的外袍，顏色全是藍的。
And he made the robe of the ephod of woven work, all of blue.

39:23    袍上留一領口，口的周圍織出領邊來，彷佛鎧甲的領口，免得破裂。
And there was an hole in the midst of the robe, as the hole of an habergeon, with a band round about the hole, that it should not rend.

39:24    在袍子底邊上，用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻作石榴，
And they made upon the hems of the robe pomegranates of blue, and purple, and scarlet, and twined linen.

39:25    又用精金作鈴鐺，把鈴鐺釘在袍子周圍底邊上的石榴中間，
And they made bells of pure gold, and put the bells between the pomegranates upon the hem of the robe, round about between the pomegranates;

39:26    一個鈴鐺，一個石榴，一個鈴鐺，一個石榴，在袍子周圍底邊上用以供職，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
A bell and a pomegranate, a bell and a pomegranate, round about the hem of the robe to minister in; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:27    他用織成的細麻布為亞倫和他的兒子作內袍，
And they made coats of fine linen of woven work for Aaron, and for his sons,

39:28    並用細麻布作冠冕和華美的裹頭巾，用捻的細麻布作褲子，
And a mitre of fine linen, and goodly bonnets of fine linen, and linen breeches of fine twined linen,

39:29    又用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線，並捻的細麻，以繡花的手工作腰帶，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And a girdle of fine twined linen, and blue, and purple, and scarlet, of needlework; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:30    他用精金作聖冠上的牌，在上面按刻圖書之法，刻著『歸耶和華為聖』。
And they made the plate of the holy crown of pure gold, and wrote upon it a writing, like to the engravings of a signet, HOLINESS TO THE LORD.

39:31    又用一條藍細帶子將牌系在冠冕上，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And they tied unto it a lace of blue, to fasten it on high upon the mitre; as the LORD commanded Moses.

39:32    帳幕，就是會幕，一切的工就這樣作完了。凡耶和華所吩咐摩西的，以色列人都照樣作了。
Thus was all the work of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation finished: and the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.

39:33    他們送到摩西那裡，帳幕和帳幕的一切器具，就是鉤子，板，閂，柱子，帶卯的座，
And they brought the tabernacle unto Moses, the tent, and all his furniture, his taches, his boards, his bars, and his pillars, and his sockets,

39:34    染紅公羊皮的蓋，海狗皮的頂蓋，和遮掩櫃的幔子，
And the covering of rams' skins dyed red, and the covering of badgers' skins, and the vail of the covering,

39:35    法櫃和櫃的槓並施恩座，
The ark of the testimony, and the staves thereof, and the mercy seat,

39:36    桌子和桌子的一切器具並陳設餅，
The table, and all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread,

39:37    精金的燈臺和擺列的燈盞，與燈臺的一切器具，並點燈的油，
The pure candlestick, with the lamps thereof, even with the lamps to be set in order, and all the vessels thereof, and the oil for light,

39:38    金壇，膏油，馨香的香料，會幕的門簾，
And the golden altar, and the anointing oil, and the sweet incense, and the hanging for the tabernacle door,

39:39    銅壇和壇上的銅網，壇的槓並壇的一切器具，洗濯盆和盆座，
The brasen altar, and his grate of brass, his staves, and all his vessels, the laver and his foot,

39:40    院子的帷子和柱子，並帶卯的座，院子的門簾，繩子，橛子，並帳幕和會幕中一切使用的器具，
The hangings of the court, his pillars, and his sockets, and the hanging for the court gate, his cords, and his pins, and all the vessels of the service of the tabernacle, for the tent of the congregation,

39:41    精工作的禮服，和祭司亞倫並他兒子在聖所用以供祭司職分的聖衣。
The cloths of service to do service in the holy place, and the holy garments for Aaron the priest, and his sons' garments, to minister in the priest's office.

39:42    這一切工作都是以色列人照耶和華所吩咐摩西作的。
According to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel made all the work.

39:43    耶和華怎樣吩咐的，他們就怎樣作了。摩西看見一切的工都作成了，就給他們祝福。
And Moses did look upon all the work, and, behold, they had done it as the LORD had commanded, even so had they done it: and Moses blessed them.



舊約 -- 出埃及記(Exodus) -- 第 40 章 ( 本篇共有 40 章 )


40:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

40:2    正月初一日，你要立起帳幕，
On the first day of the first month shalt thou set up the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.

40:3    把法櫃安放在裡面，用幔子將櫃遮掩。
And thou shalt put therein the ark of the testimony, and cover the ark with the vail.

40:4    把桌子搬進去，擺設上面的物。把燈臺搬進去，點其上的燈。
And thou shalt bring in the table, and set in order the things that are to be set in order upon it; and thou shalt bring in the candlestick, and light the lamps thereof.

40:5    把燒香的金壇安在法櫃前，掛上帳幕的門簾。
And thou shalt set the altar of gold for the incense before the ark of the testimony, and put the hanging of the door to the tabernacle.

40:6    把燔祭壇安在帳幕門前。
And thou shalt set the altar of the burnt offering before the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation.

40:7    把洗濯盆安在會幕和壇的中間，在盆裡盛水。
And thou shalt set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and shalt put water therein.

40:8    又在四圍立院帷，把院子的門簾掛上。
And thou shalt set up the court round about, and hang up the hanging at the court gate.

40:9    用膏油把帳幕和其中所有的都抹上，使帳幕和一切器具成聖，就都成聖。
And thou shalt take the anointing oil, and anoint the tabernacle, and all that is therein, and shalt hallow it, and all the vessels thereof: and it shall be holy.

40:10    又要抹燔祭壇和一切器具，使壇成聖，就都成為至聖。
And thou shalt anoint the altar of the burnt offering, and all his vessels, and sanctify the altar: and it shall be an altar most holy.

40:11    要抹洗濯盆和盆座，使盆成聖。
And thou shalt anoint the laver and his foot, and sanctify it.

40:12    要使亞倫和他兒子到會幕門口來，用水洗身。
And thou shalt bring Aaron and his sons unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and wash them with water.

40:13    要給亞倫穿上聖衣，又膏他，使他成聖，可以給我供祭司的職分，
And thou shalt put upon Aaron the holy garments, and anoint him, and sanctify him; that he may minister unto me in the priest's office.

40:14    又要使他兒子來，給他們穿上內袍。
And thou shalt bring his sons, and clothe them with coats:

40:15    怎樣膏他們的父親，也要照樣膏他們，使他們給我供祭司的職分。他們世世代代凡受膏的，就永遠當祭司的職任。
And thou shalt anoint them, as thou didst anoint their father, that they may minister unto me in the priest's office: for their anointing shall surely be an everlasting priesthood throughout their generations.

40:16    摩西這樣行，都是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
Thus did Moses: according to all that the LORD commanded him, so did he.

40:17    第二年正月初一日，帳幕就立起來。
And it came to pass in the first month in the second year, on the first day of the month, that the tabernacle was reared up.

40:18    摩西立起帳幕，安上帶卯的座，立上板，穿上閂，立起柱子。
And Moses reared up the tabernacle, and fastened his sockets, and set up the boards thereof, and put in the bars thereof, and reared up his pillars.

40:19    在帳幕以上搭罩棚，把罩棚的頂蓋蓋在其上，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
And he spread abroad the tent over the tabernacle, and put the covering of the tent above upon it; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:20    又把法版放在櫃裡，把槓穿在櫃的兩旁，把施恩座安在櫃上。
And he took and put the testimony into the ark, and set the staves on the ark, and put the mercy seat above upon the ark:

40:21    把櫃抬進帳幕，掛上遮掩櫃的幔子，把法櫃遮掩了，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
And he brought the ark into the tabernacle, and set up the vail of the covering, and covered the ark of the testimony; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:22    又把桌子安在會幕內，在帳幕北邊，在幔子外。
And he put the table in the tent of the congregation, upon the side of the tabernacle northward, without the vail.

40:23    在桌子上將餅陳設在耶和華面前，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
And he set the bread in order upon it before the LORD; as the LORD had commanded Moses.

40:24    又把燈臺安在會幕內，在帳幕南邊，與桌子相對，
And he put the candlestick in the tent of the congregation, over against the table, on the side of the tabernacle southward.

40:25    在耶和華面前點燈，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
And he lighted the lamps before the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:26    把金壇安在會幕內的幔子前，
And he put the golden altar in the tent of the congregation before the vail:

40:27    在壇上燒了馨香料作的香，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
And he burnt sweet incense thereon; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:28    又掛上帳幕的門簾。
And he set up the hanging at the door of the tabernacle.

40:29    在會幕的帳幕門前，安設燔祭壇，把燔祭和素祭獻在其上，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
And he put the altar of burnt offering by the door of the tabernacle of the tent of the congregation, and offered upon it the burnt offering and the meat offering; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:30    把洗濯盆安在會幕和壇的中間，盆中盛水，以便洗濯。
And he set the laver between the tent of the congregation and the altar, and put water there, to wash withal.

40:31    摩西和亞倫並亞倫的兒子在這盆裡洗手洗腳。
And Moses and Aaron and his sons washed their hands and their feet thereat:

40:32    他們進會幕或就近壇的時候，便都洗濯，是照耶和華所吩咐他的。
When they went into the tent of the congregation, and when they came near unto the altar, they washed; as the LORD commanded Moses.

40:33    在帳幕和壇的四圍立了院帷，把院子的門簾掛上。這樣，摩西就完了工。
And he reared up the court round about the tabernacle and the altar, and set up the hanging of the court gate. So Moses finished the work.

40:34    當時，雲彩遮蓋會幕，耶和華的榮光就充滿了帳幕。
Then a cloud covered the tent of the congregation, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.

40:35    摩西不能進會幕，姻為雲彩停在其上，並且耶和華的榮光充滿了帳幕。
And Moses was not able to enter into the tent of the congregation, because the cloud abode thereon, and the glory of the LORD filled the tabernacle.

40:36    每逢雲彩從帳幕收上去，以色列人就起程前往。
And when the cloud was taken up from over the tabernacle, the children of Israel went onward in all their journeys:

40:37    雲彩若不收上去，他們就不起程，直等到雲彩收上去。
But if the cloud were not taken up, then they journeyed not till the day that it was taken up.

40:38    日間，耶和華的雲彩是在帳幕以上。夜間，雲中有火，在以色列全家的眼前，在他們所行的路上，都是這樣。
For the cloud of the LORD was upon the tabernacle by day, and fire was on it by night, in the sight of all the house of Israel, throughout all their journeys.




