

舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


1:1    耶和華從會幕中呼叫摩西，對他說，
And the LORD called unto Moses, and spake unto him out of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,

1:2    你曉諭以色列人說，你們中間若有人獻供物給耶和華，要從牛群羊群中獻牲畜為供物。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If any man of you bring an offering unto the LORD, ye shall bring your offering of the cattle, even of the herd, and of the flock.

1:3    他的供物若以牛為燔祭，就要在會幕門口獻一隻沒有殘疾的公牛，可以在耶和華面前蒙悅納。
If his offering be a burnt sacrifice of the herd, let him offer a male without blemish: he shall offer it of his own voluntary will at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD.

1:4    他要按手在燔祭牲的頭上，燔祭便蒙悅納，為他贖罪。
And he shall put his hand upon the head of the burnt offering; and it shall be accepted for him to make atonement for him.

1:5    他要在耶和華面前宰公牛，亞倫子孫作祭司的，要奉上血，把血灑在會幕門口，壇的周圍。
And he shall kill the bullock before the LORD: and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall bring the blood, and sprinkle the blood round about upon the altar that is by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

1:6    那人要剝去燔祭牲的皮，把燔祭牲切成塊子。
And he shall flay the burnt offering, and cut it into his pieces.

1:7    祭司亞倫的子孫要把火放在壇上，把柴擺在火上。
And the sons of Aaron the priest shall put fire upon the altar, and lay the wood in order upon the fire:

1:8    亞倫子孫作祭司的，要把肉塊和頭並脂油擺在壇上火的柴上。
And the priests, Aaron's sons, shall lay the parts, the head, and the fat, in order upon the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar:

1:9    但燔祭的臟腑與腿要用水洗。祭司就要把一切全燒在壇上，當作燔祭，獻與耶和華為馨香的火祭。
But his inwards and his legs shall he wash in water: and the priest shall burn all on the altar, to be a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

1:10    人的供物若以綿羊或山羊為燔祭，就要獻上沒有殘疾的公羊。
And if his offering be of the flocks, namely, of the sheep, or of the goats, for a burnt sacrifice; he shall bring it a male without blemish.

1:11    要把羊宰於壇的北邊，在耶和華面前，亞倫子孫作祭司的，要把羊血灑在壇的周圍。
And he shall kill it on the side of the altar northward before the LORD: and the priests, Aaron's sons, shall sprinkle his blood round about upon the altar.

1:12    要把燔祭牲切成塊子，連頭和脂油，祭司就要擺在壇上火的柴上。
And he shall cut it into his pieces, with his head and his fat: and the priest shall lay them in order on the wood that is on the fire which is upon the altar:

1:13    但臟腑與腿要用水洗，祭司就要全然奉獻，燒在壇上。這是燔祭，是獻與耶和華為馨香的火祭。
But he shall wash the inwards and the legs with water: and the priest shall bring it all, and burn it upon the altar: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

1:14    人奉給耶和華的供物，若以鳥為燔祭，就要獻斑鳩或是雛鴿為供物。
And if the burnt sacrifice for his offering to the LORD be of fowls, then he shall bring his offering of turtledoves, or of young pigeons.

1:15    祭司要把鳥拿到壇前，揪下頭來，把鳥燒在壇上，鳥的血要流在壇的旁邊。
And the priest shall bring it unto the altar, and wring off his head, and burn it on the altar; and the blood thereof shall be wrung out at the side of the altar:

1:16    又要把鳥的嗉子和髒物（髒物或作翎毛）除掉，丟在壇的東邊倒灰的地方。
And he shall pluck away his crop with his feathers, and cast it beside the altar on the east part, by the place of the ashes:

1:17    要拿著鳥的兩個翅膀，把鳥撕開，只是不可撕斷，祭司要在壇上，在火的柴上焚燒。這是燔祭，是獻與耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And he shall cleave it with the wings thereof, but shall not divide it asunder: and the priest shall burn it upon the altar, upon the wood that is upon the fire: it is a burnt sacrifice, an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


2:1    若有人獻素祭為供物給耶和華，要用細面澆上油，加上乳香，
And when any will offer a meat offering unto the LORD, his offering shall be of fine flour; and he shall pour oil upon it, and put frankincense thereon:

2:2    帶到亞倫子孫作祭司的那裡，祭司就要從細面中取出一把來，並取些油和所有的乳香，然後要把所取的這些作為紀念，燒在壇上，是獻與耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And he shall bring it to Aaron's sons the priests: and he shall take thereout his handful of the flour thereof, and of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof; and the priest shall burn the memorial of it upon the altar, to be an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD:

2:3    素祭所剩的要歸給亞倫和他的子孫，這是獻與耶和華的火祭中為至聖的。
And the remnant of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

2:4    若用爐中烤的物為素祭，就要用調油的無酵細麵餅，或是抹油的無酵薄餅。
And if thou bring an oblation of a meat offering baken in the oven, it shall be unleavened cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, or unleavened wafers anointed with oil.

2:5    若用鐵鏊上作的物為素祭，就要用調油的無酵細面，
And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in a pan, it shall be of fine flour unleavened, mingled with oil.

2:6    分成塊子，澆上油，這是素祭。
Thou shalt part it in pieces, and pour oil thereon: it is a meat offering.

2:7    若用煎盤作的物為素祭，就要用油與細面作成。
And if thy oblation be a meat offering baken in the fryingpan, it shall be made of fine flour with oil.

2:8    要把這些東西作的素祭帶到耶和華面前，並奉給祭司，帶到壇前。
And thou shalt bring the meat offering that is made of these things unto the LORD: and when it is presented unto the priest, he shall bring it unto the altar.

2:9    祭司要從素祭中取出作為紀念的，燒在壇上，是獻與耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And the priest shall take from the meat offering a memorial thereof, and shall burn it upon the altar: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

2:10    素祭所剩的要歸給亞倫和他的子孫。這是獻與耶和華的火祭中為至聖的。
And that which is left of the meat offering shall be Aaron's and his sons': it is a thing most holy of the offerings of the LORD made by fire.

2:11    凡獻給耶和華的素祭都不可有酵，因為你們不可燒一點酵，一點蜜當作火祭獻給耶和華。
No meat offering, which ye shall bring unto the LORD, shall be made with leaven: for ye shall burn no leaven, nor any honey, in any offering of the LORD made by fire.

2:12    這些物要獻給耶和華作為初熟的供物，只是不可在壇上獻為馨香的祭。
As for the oblation of the firstfruits, ye shall offer them unto the LORD: but they shall not be burnt on the altar for a sweet savour.

2:13    凡獻為素祭的供物都要用鹽調和，在素祭上不可缺了你神立約的鹽。一切的供物都要配鹽而獻。
And every oblation of thy meat offering shalt thou season with salt; neither shalt thou suffer the salt of the covenant of thy God to be lacking from thy meat offering: with all thine offerings thou shalt offer salt.

2:14    若向耶和華獻初熟之物為素祭，要獻上烘了的禾穗子，就是軋了的新穗子，當作初熟之物的素祭。
And if thou offer a meat offering of thy firstfruits unto the LORD, thou shalt offer for the meat offering of thy firstfruits green ears of corn dried by the fire, even corn beaten out of full ears.

2:15    並要抹上油，加上乳香，這是素祭。
And thou shalt put oil upon it, and lay frankincense thereon: it is a meat offering.

2:16    祭司要把其中作為紀念的，就是一些軋了的禾穗子和一些油，並所有的乳香，都焚燒，是向耶和華獻的火祭。
And the priest shall burn the memorial of it, part of the beaten corn thereof, and part of the oil thereof, with all the frankincense thereof: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


3:1    人獻供物為平安祭（平安或作酬恩下同），若是從牛群中獻，無論是公的是母的，必用沒有殘疾的獻在耶和華面前。
And if his oblation be a sacrifice of peace offering, if he offer it of the herd; whether it be a male or female, he shall offer it without blemish before the LORD.

3:2    他要按手在供物的頭上，宰於會幕門口。亞倫子孫作祭司的，要把血灑在壇的周圍。
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons the priests shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar round about.

3:3    從平安祭中，將火祭獻給耶和華，也要把蓋髒的脂油和髒上所有的脂油，
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

3:4    並兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰兩旁的脂油，與肝上的網子和腰子，一概取下。
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

3:5    亞倫的子孫要把這些燒在壇的燔祭上，就是在火的柴上，是獻與耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And Aaron's sons shall burn it on the altar upon the burnt sacrifice, which is upon the wood that is on the fire: it is an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

3:6    人向耶和華獻供物為平安祭，若是從羊群中獻，無論是公的是母的，必用沒有殘疾的。
And if his offering for a sacrifice of peace offering unto the LORD be of the flock; male or female, he shall offer it without blemish.

3:7    若獻一隻羊羔為供物，必在耶和華面前獻上，
If he offer a lamb for his offering, then shall he offer it before the LORD.

3:8    並要按手在供物的頭上，宰於會幕前。亞倫的子孫要把血灑在壇的周圍。
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of his offering, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and Aaron's sons shall sprinkle the blood thereof round about upon the altar.

3:9    從平安祭中，將火祭獻給耶和華，其中的脂油和整肥尾巴都要在靠近脊骨處取下，並要把蓋髒的脂油和髒上所有的脂油，
And he shall offer of the sacrifice of the peace offering an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat thereof, and the whole rump, it shall he take off hard by the backbone; and the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

3:10    兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰兩旁的脂油，並肝上的網子和腰子，一概取下。
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

3:11    祭司要在壇上焚燒，是獻給耶和華為食物的火祭。
And the priest shall burn it upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire unto the LORD.

3:12    人的供物若是山羊，必在耶和華面前獻上。
And if his offering be a goat, then he shall offer it before the LORD.

3:13    要按手在山羊頭上，宰於會幕前。亞倫的子孫要把血灑在壇的周圍，
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of it, and kill it before the tabernacle of the congregation: and the sons of Aaron shall sprinkle the blood thereof upon the altar round about.

3:14    *
And he shall offer thereof his offering, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

3:15    又把蓋髒的脂油和髒上所有的脂油，兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰兩旁的脂油，並肝上的網子和腰子，一概取下，獻給耶和華為火祭。
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away.

3:16    祭司要在壇上焚燒，作為馨香火祭的食物。脂油都是耶和華的。
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar: it is the food of the offering made by fire for a sweet savour: all the fat is the LORD's.

3:17    在你們一切的住處，脂油和血都不可吃，這要成為你們世世代代永遠的定例。
It shall be a perpetual statute for your generations throughout all your dwellings, that ye eat neither fat nor blood.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


4:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

4:2    你曉諭以色列人說，若有人在耶和華所吩咐不可行的什麼事上誤犯了一件，
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a soul shall sin through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and shall do against any of them:

4:3    或是受膏的祭司犯罪，使百姓陷在罪裡，就當為他所犯的罪把沒有殘疾的公牛犢獻給耶和華為贖罪祭。
If the priest that is anointed do sin according to the sin of the people; then let him bring for his sin, which he hath sinned, a young bullock without blemish unto the LORD for a sin offering.

4:4    他要牽公牛到會幕門口，在耶和華面前按手在牛的頭上，把牛宰於耶和華面前。
And he shall bring the bullock unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation before the LORD; and shall lay his hand upon the bullock's head, and kill the bullock before the LORD.

4:5    受膏的祭司要取些公牛的血帶到會幕，
And the priest that is anointed shall take of the bullock's blood, and bring it to the tabernacle of the congregation:

4:6    把指頭蘸於血中，在耶和華面前對著聖所的幔子彈血七次，
And the priest shall dip his finger in the blood, and sprinkle of the blood seven times before the LORD, before the vail of the sanctuary.

4:7    又要把些血抹在會幕內，耶和華面前香壇的四角上，再把公牛所有的血倒在會幕門口，燔祭壇的腳那裡。
And the priest shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar of sweet incense before the LORD, which is in the tabernacle of the congregation; and shall pour all the blood of the bullock at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:8    要把贖罪祭公牛所有的脂油，乃是蓋髒的脂油和髒上所有的脂油，
And he shall take off from it all the fat of the bullock for the sin offering; the fat that covereth the inwards, and all the fat that is upon the inwards,

4:9    並兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰兩旁的脂油，與肝上的網子和腰子，一概取下，
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is upon them, which is by the flanks, and the caul above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away,

4:10    與平安祭公牛上所取的一樣，祭司要把這些燒在燔祭的壇上。
As it was taken off from the bullock of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall burn them upon the altar of the burnt offering.

4:11    公牛的皮和所有的肉，並頭，腿，髒，腑，糞，
And the skin of the bullock, and all his flesh, with his head, and with his legs, and his inwards, and his dung,

4:12    就是全公牛，要搬到營外潔淨之地，倒灰之所，用火燒在柴上。
Even the whole bullock shall he carry forth without the camp unto a clean place, where the ashes are poured out, and burn him on the wood with fire: where the ashes are poured out shall he be burnt.

4:13    以色列全會眾若行了耶和華所吩咐不可行的什麼事，誤犯了罪，是隱而未現，會眾看不出來的，
And if the whole congregation of Israel sin through ignorance, and the thing be hid from the eyes of the assembly, and they have done somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which should not be done, and are guilty;

4:14    會眾一知道所犯的罪就要獻一隻公牛犢為贖罪祭，牽到會幕前。
When the sin, which they have sinned against it, is known, then the congregation shall offer a young bullock for the sin, and bring him before the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:15    會中的長老就要在耶和華面前按手在牛的頭上，將牛在耶和華面前宰了。
And the elders of the congregation shall lay their hands upon the head of the bullock before the LORD: and the bullock shall be killed before the LORD.

4:16    受膏的祭司要取些公牛的血帶到會幕，
And the priest that is anointed shall bring of the bullock's blood to the tabernacle of the congregation:

4:17    把指頭蘸於血中，在耶和華面前對著幔子彈血七次，
And the priest shall dip his finger in some of the blood, and sprinkle it seven times before the LORD, even before the vail.

4:18    又要把些血抹在會幕內，耶和華面前壇的四角上，再把所有的血倒在會幕門口，燔祭壇的腳那裡。
And he shall put some of the blood upon the horns of the altar which is before the LORD, that is in the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall pour out all the blood at the bottom of the altar of the burnt offering, which is at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:19    把牛所有的脂油都取下，燒在壇上。
And he shall take all his fat from him, and burn it upon the altar.

4:20    收拾赦牛，與那贖罪祭的牛一樣。祭司要為他們贖罪，他們必蒙赦免。
And he shall do with the bullock as he did with the bullock for a sin offering, so shall he do with this: and the priest shall make an atonement for them, and it shall be forgiven them.

4:21    他要把牛搬到營外燒了，像燒頭一個牛一樣，這是會眾的贖罪祭。
And he shall carry forth the bullock without the camp, and burn him as he burned the first bullock: it is a sin offering for the congregation.

4:22    官長若行了耶和華他神所吩咐不可行的什麼事，誤犯了罪，
When a ruler hath sinned, and done somewhat through ignorance against any of the commandments of the LORD his God concerning things which should not be done, and is guilty;

4:23    所犯的罪自己知道了，就要牽一隻沒有殘疾的公山羊為供物，
Or if his sin, wherein he hath sinned, come to his knowledge; he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a male without blemish:

4:24    按手在羊的頭上，宰於耶和華面前，宰燔祭牲的地方，這是贖罪祭。
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the goat, and kill it in the place where they kill the burnt offering before the LORD: it is a sin offering.

4:25    祭司要用指頭蘸些贖罪祭牲的血，抹在燔祭壇的四角上，把血倒在燔祭壇的腳那裡。
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out his blood at the bottom of the altar of burnt offering.

4:26    所有的脂油，祭司都要燒在壇上，正如平安祭的脂油一樣。至於他的罪，祭司要為他贖了，他必蒙赦免。
And he shall burn all his fat upon the altar, as the fat of the sacrifice of peace offerings: and the priest shall make an atonement for him as concerning his sin, and it shall be forgiven him.

4:27    民中若有人行了耶和華所吩咐不可行的什麼事，誤犯了罪，
And if any one of the common people sin through ignorance, while he doeth somewhat against any of the commandments of the LORD concerning things which ought not to be done, and be guilty;

4:28    所犯的罪自己知道了，就要為所犯的罪牽一隻沒有殘疾的母山羊為供物，
Or if his sin, which he hath sinned, come to his knowledge: then he shall bring his offering, a kid of the goats, a female without blemish, for his sin which he hath sinned.

4:29    按手在贖罪祭牲的頭上，在那宰燔祭牲的地方宰了。
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay the sin offering in the place of the burnt offering.

4:30    祭司要用指頭蘸些羊的血，抹在燔祭壇的四角上，所有的血都要倒在壇的腳那裡。
And the priest shall take of the blood thereof with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar.

4:31    又要把羊所有的脂油都取下，正如取平安祭牲的脂油一樣。祭司要在壇上焚燒，在耶和華面前作為馨香的祭，為他贖罪，他必蒙赦免。
And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat is taken away from off the sacrifice of peace offerings; and the priest shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour unto the LORD; and the priest shall make an atonement for him, and it shall be forgiven him.

4:32    人若牽一隻綿羊羔為贖罪祭的供物，必要牽一隻沒有殘疾的母羊，
And if he bring a lamb for a sin offering, he shall bring it a female without blemish.

4:33    按手在贖罪祭牲的頭上，在那宰燔祭牲的地方宰了作贖罪祭。
And he shall lay his hand upon the head of the sin offering, and slay it for a sin offering in the place where they kill the burnt offering.

4:34    祭司要用指頭蘸些贖罪祭牲的血，抹在燔祭壇的四角上，所有的血都要倒在壇的腳那裡，
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering with his finger, and put it upon the horns of the altar of burnt offering, and shall pour out all the blood thereof at the bottom of the altar:

4:35    又要把所有的脂油都取下，正如取平安祭羊羔的脂油一樣。祭司要按獻給耶和華火祭的條例，燒在壇上。至於所犯的罪，祭司要為他贖了，他必蒙赦免。
And he shall take away all the fat thereof, as the fat of the lamb is taken away from the sacrifice of the peace offerings; and the priest shall burn them upon the altar, according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: and the priest shall make an atonement for his sin that he hath committed, and it shall be forgiven him.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


5:1    若有人聽見發誓的聲音（或作若有人聽見叫人發誓的聲音），他本是見證，卻不把所看見的，所知道的說出來，這就是罪，他要擔當他的罪孽。
And if a soul sin, and hear the voice of swearing, and is a witness, whether he hath seen or known of it; if he do not utter it, then he shall bear his iniquity.

5:2    或是有人摸了不潔的物，無論是不潔的死獸，是不潔的死畜，是不潔的死蟲，他卻不知道，因此成了不潔，就有了罪。
Or if a soul touch any unclean thing, whether it be a carcase of an unclean beast, or a carcase of unclean cattle, or the carcase of unclean creeping things, and if it be hidden from him; he also shall be unclean, and guilty.

5:3    或是他摸了別人的汙穢，無論是染了什麼汙穢，他卻不知道，一知道了就有了罪。
Or if he touch the uncleanness of man, whatsoever uncleanness it be that a man shall be defiled withal, and it be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty.

5:4    或是有人嘴裡冒失發誓，要行惡，要行善，無論人在什麼事上冒失發誓，他卻不知道，一知道了就要在這其中的一件上有了罪。
Or if a soul swear, pronouncing with his lips to do evil, or to do good, whatsoever it be that a man shall pronounce with an oath, and it be hid from him; when he knoweth of it, then he shall be guilty in one of these.

5:5    他有了罪的時候，就要承認所犯的罪，
And it shall be, when he shall be guilty in one of these things, that he shall confess that he hath sinned in that thing:

5:6    並要因所犯的罪，把他的贖愆祭牲就是羊群中的母羊，或是一隻羊羔，或是一隻山羊牽到耶和華面前為贖罪祭。至於他的罪，祭司要為他贖了。
And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD for his sin which he hath sinned, a female from the flock, a lamb or a kid of the goats, for a sin offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his sin.

5:7    他的力量若不夠獻一隻羊羔，就要因所犯的罪，把兩隻斑鳩或是兩隻雛鴿帶到耶和華面前為贖愆祭，一隻作贖罪祭，一隻作燔祭。
And if he be not able to bring a lamb, then he shall bring for his trespass, which he hath committed, two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, unto the LORD; one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering.

5:8    把這些帶到祭司那裡，祭司就要先把那贖罪祭獻上，從鳥的頸項上揪下頭來，只是不可把鳥撕斷，
And he shall bring them unto the priest, who shall offer that which is for the sin offering first, and wring off his head from his neck, but shall not divide it asunder:

5:9    也把些贖罪祭牲的血彈在壇的旁邊，剩下的血要流在壇的腳那裡，這是贖罪祭。
And he shall sprinkle of the blood of the sin offering upon the side of the altar; and the rest of the blood shall be wrung out at the bottom of the altar: it is a sin offering.

5:10    他要照例獻第二隻為燔祭。至於他所犯的罪，祭司要為他贖了，他必蒙赦免。
And he shall offer the second for a burnt offering, according to the manner: and the priest shall make an atonement for him for his sin which he hath sinned, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:11    他的力量若不夠獻兩隻斑鳩或是兩隻雛鴿，就要因所犯的罪帶供物來，就是細面伊法十分之一為贖罪祭，不可加上油，也不可加上乳香，因為是贖罪祭。
But if he be not able to bring two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, then he that sinned shall bring for his offering the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a sin offering; he shall put no oil upon it, neither shall he put any frankincense thereon: for it is a sin offering.

5:12    他要把供物帶到祭司那裡，祭司要取出自己的一把來作為紀念，按獻給耶和華火祭的條例燒在壇上，這是贖罪祭。
Then shall he bring it to the priest, and the priest shall take his handful of it, even a memorial thereof, and burn it on the altar, according to the offerings made by fire unto the LORD: it is a sin offering.

5:13    至於他在這幾件事中所犯的罪，祭司要為他贖了，他必蒙赦免。剩下的面都歸與祭司，和素祭一樣。
And the priest shall make an atonement for him as touching his sin that he hath sinned in one of these, and it shall be forgiven him: and the remnant shall be the priest's, as a meat offering.

5:14    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

5:15    人若在耶和華的聖物上誤犯了罪，有了過犯，就要照你所估的，按聖所的舍客勒拿銀子，將贖愆祭牲就是羊群中一隻沒有殘疾的公綿羊牽到耶和華面前為贖愆祭。
If a soul commit a trespass, and sin through ignorance, in the holy things of the LORD; then he shall bring for his trespass unto the LORD a ram without blemish out of the flocks, with thy estimation by shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary, for a trespass offering:

5:16    並且他因在聖物上的差錯要償還，另外加五分之一，都給祭司。祭司要用贖愆祭的公綿羊為他贖罪，他必蒙赦免。
And he shall make amends for the harm that he hath done in the holy thing, and shall add the fifth part thereto, and give it unto the priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:17    若有人犯罪，行了耶和華所吩咐不可行的什麼事，他雖然不知道，還是有了罪，就要擔當他的罪孽。
And if a soul sin, and commit any of these things which are forbidden to be done by the commandments of the LORD; though he wist it not, yet is he guilty, and shall bear his iniquity.

5:18    也要照你所估定的價，從羊群中牽一隻沒有殘疾的公綿羊來，給祭司作贖愆祭。至於他誤行的那錯事，祭司要為他贖罪，他必蒙赦免。
And he shall bring a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest: and the priest shall make an atonement for him concerning his ignorance wherein he erred and wist it not, and it shall be forgiven him.

5:19    這是贖愆祭，因他在耶和華面前實在有了罪。
It is a trespass offering: he hath certainly trespassed against the LORD.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


6:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:2    若有人犯罪，干犯耶和華，在鄰舍交付他的物上，或是在交易上行了詭詐，或是搶奪人的財物，框是欺壓鄰舍，
If a soul sin, and commit a trespass against the LORD, and lie unto his neighbour in that which was delivered him to keep, or in fellowship, or in a thing taken away by violence, or hath deceived his neighbour;

6:3    或是在撿了遺失的物上行了詭詐，說謊起誓，在這一切的事上犯了什麼罪。
Or have found that which was lost, and lieth concerning it, and sweareth falsely; in any of all these that a man doeth, sinning therein:

6:4    他既犯了罪，有了過犯，就要歸還他所搶奪的，或是因欺壓所得的，或是人交付他的，或是人遺失他所撿的物，
Then it shall be, because he hath sinned, and is guilty, that he shall restore that which he took violently away, or the thing which he hath deceitfully gotten, or that which was delivered him to keep, or the lost thing which he found,

6:5    或是他因什麼物起了假誓，就要如數歸還，另外加上五分之一，在查出他有罪的日子要交還本主。
Or all that about which he hath sworn falsely; he shall even restore it in the principal, and shall add the fifth part more thereto, and give it unto him to whom it appertaineth, in the day of his trespass offering.

6:6    也要照你所估定的價，把贖愆祭牲就是羊群中一隻沒有殘疾的公綿羊牽到耶和華面前，給祭司為贖愆祭。
And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, a ram without blemish out of the flock, with thy estimation, for a trespass offering, unto the priest:

6:7    祭司要在耶和華面前為他贖罪，他無論行了什麼事，使他有了罪，都必蒙赦免。
And the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD: and it shall be forgiven him for any thing of all that he hath done in trespassing therein.

6:8    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:9    你要吩咐亞倫和他的子孫說，燔祭的條例乃是這樣，燔祭要放在壇的柴上，從晚上到天亮，壇上的火要常常燒著。
Command Aaron and his sons, saying, This is the law of the burnt offering: It is the burnt offering, because of the burning upon the altar all night unto the morning, and the fire of the altar shall be burning in it.

6:10    祭司要穿上細麻布衣服，又要把細麻布褲子穿在身上，把壇上所燒的燔祭灰收起來，倒在壇的旁邊。
And the priest shall put on his linen garment, and his linen breeches shall he put upon his flesh, and take up the ashes which the fire hath consumed with the burnt offering on the altar, and he shall put them beside the altar.

6:11    隨後要脫去這衣服，穿上別的衣服，把灰拿到營外潔淨之處。
And he shall put off his garments, and put on other garments, and carry forth the ashes without the camp unto a clean place.

6:12    壇上的火要在其上常常燒著，不可熄滅。祭司要每日早晨在上面燒柴，並要把燔祭擺在壇上，在其上燒平安祭牲的脂油。
And the fire upon the altar shall be burning in it; it shall not be put out: and the priest shall burn wood on it every morning, and lay the burnt offering in order upon it; and he shall burn thereon the fat of the peace offerings.

6:13    在壇上必有常常燒著的火，不可熄滅。
The fire shall ever be burning upon the altar; it shall never go out.

6:14    素祭的條例乃是這樣，亞倫的子孫要在壇前把這祭獻在耶和華面前。
And this is the law of the meat offering: the sons of Aaron shall offer it before the LORD, before the altar.

6:15    祭司要從其中就是從素祭的細面中取出自己的一把，又要取些油和素祭上所有的乳香，燒在壇上，奉給耶和華為馨香素祭的紀念。
And he shall take of it his handful, of the flour of the meat offering, and of the oil thereof, and all the frankincense which is upon the meat offering, and shall burn it upon the altar for a sweet savour, even the memorial of it, unto the LORD.

6:16    所剩下的，亞倫和他子孫要吃，必在聖處不帶酵而吃，要在會幕的院子裡吃。
And the remainder thereof shall Aaron and his sons eat: with unleavened bread shall it be eaten in the holy place; in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation they shall eat it.

6:17    烤的時候不可攙酵。這是從所獻給我的火祭中賜給他們的分，是至聖的，和贖罪祭並贖愆祭一樣。
It shall not be baken with leaven. I have given it unto them for their portion of my offerings made by fire; it is most holy, as is the sin offering, and as the trespass offering.

6:18    凡獻給耶和華的火祭，亞倫子孫中的男丁都要吃這一分，直到萬代，作他們永得的分。摸這些祭物的，都要成為聖。
All the males among the children of Aaron shall eat of it. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations concerning the offerings of the LORD made by fire: every one that toucheth them shall be holy.

6:19    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:20    當亞倫受膏的日子，他和他子孫所要獻給耶和華的供物，就是細面伊法十分之一，為常獻的素祭，早晨一半，晚上一半。
This is the offering of Aaron and of his sons, which they shall offer unto the LORD in the day when he is anointed; the tenth part of an ephah of fine flour for a meat offering perpetual, half of it in the morning, and half thereof at night.

6:21    要在鐵鏊上用油調和作成，調勻了，你就拿進來，烤好了分成塊子，獻給耶和華為馨香的素祭。
In a pan it shall be made with oil; and when it is baken, thou shalt bring it in: and the baken pieces of the meat offering shalt thou offer for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

6:22    亞倫的子孫中，接續他為受膏的祭司，要把這素祭獻上，要全燒給耶和華。這是永遠的定例。
And the priest of his sons that is anointed in his stead shall offer it: it is a statute for ever unto the LORD; it shall be wholly burnt.

6:23    祭司的素祭都要燒了，卻不可吃。
For every meat offering for the priest shall be wholly burnt: it shall not be eaten.

6:24    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:25    你對亞倫和他的子孫說，贖罪祭的條例乃是這樣，要在耶和華面前，宰燔祭牲的地方宰贖罪祭牲，這是至聖的。
Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, saying, This is the law of the sin offering: In the place where the burnt offering is killed shall the sin offering be killed before the LORD: it is most holy.

6:26    為贖罪獻這祭的祭司要吃，要在聖處，就是在會幕的院子裡吃。
The priest that offereth it for sin shall eat it: in the holy place shall it be eaten, in the court of the tabernacle of the congregation.

6:27    凡摸這祭肉的要成為聖，這祭牲的血若彈在什麼衣服上，所彈的那一件要在聖處洗淨。
Whatsoever shall touch the flesh thereof shall be holy: and when there is sprinkled of the blood thereof upon any garment, thou shalt wash that whereon it was sprinkled in the holy place.

6:28    惟有煮祭物的瓦器要打碎，若是煮在銅器裡，這銅器要擦磨，在水中涮淨。
But the earthen vessel wherein it is sodden shall be broken: and if it be sodden in a brasen pot, it shall be both scoured, and rinsed in water.

6:29    凡祭司中的男丁都可以吃，這是至聖的。
All the males among the priests shall eat thereof: it is most holy.



6:30    凡贖罪祭，若將血帶進會幕在聖所贖罪，那肉都不可吃，必用火焚燒。
And no sin offering, whereof any of the blood is brought into the tabernacle of the congregation to reconcile withal in the holy place, shall be eaten: it shall be burnt in the fire.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


7:1    贖愆祭的條例乃是如此，這祭是至聖的。
Likewise this is the law of the trespass offering: it is most holy.

7:2    人在那裡宰燔祭牲，也要在那裡宰贖愆祭牲，其血，祭司要灑在壇的周圍。
In the place where they kill the burnt offering shall they kill the trespass offering: and the blood thereof shall he sprinkle round about upon the altar.

7:3    又要將肥尾巴和蓋髒的脂油，
And he shall offer of it all the fat thereof; the rump, and the fat that covereth the inwards,

7:4    兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，就是靠腰兩旁的脂油，並肝上的網子和腰子，一概取下。
And the two kidneys, and the fat that is on them, which is by the flanks, and the caul that is above the liver, with the kidneys, it shall he take away:

7:5    祭司要在壇上焚燒，為獻給耶和華的火祭，是贖愆祭。
And the priest shall burn them upon the altar for an offering made by fire unto the LORD: it is a trespass offering.

7:6    祭司中的男丁都可以吃這祭物，要在聖處吃，是至聖的。
Every male among the priests shall eat thereof: it shall be eaten in the holy place: it is most holy.

7:7    贖罪祭怎樣，贖愆祭也是怎樣，兩個祭是一個條例。獻贖愆祭贖罪的祭司要得這祭物。
As the sin offering is, so is the trespass offering: there is one law for them: the priest that maketh atonement therewith shall have it.

7:8    獻燔祭的祭司，無論為誰奉獻，要親自得他所獻那燔祭牲的皮。
And the priest that offereth any man's burnt offering, even the priest shall have to himself the skin of the burnt offering which he hath offered.

7:9    凡在爐中烤的素祭和煎盤中作的，並鐵鏊上作的，都要歸那獻祭的祭司。
And all the meat offering that is baken in the oven, and all that is dressed in the fryingpan, and in the pan, shall be the priest's that offereth it.

7:10    凡素祭，無論是油調和的是乾的，都要歸亞倫的子孫，大家均分。
And every meat offering, mingled with oil, and dry, shall all the sons of Aaron have, one as much as another.

7:11    人獻與耶和華平安祭的條例乃是這樣，
And this is the law of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which he shall offer unto the LORD.

7:12    他若為感謝獻上，就要用調油的無酵餅和抹油的無酵薄餅，並用油調勻細面作的餅，與感謝祭一同獻上。
If he offer it for a thanksgiving, then he shall offer with the sacrifice of thanksgiving unleavened cakes mingled with oil, and unleavened wafers anointed with oil, and cakes mingled with oil, of fine flour, fried.

7:13    要用有酵的餅和為感謝獻的平安祭，與供物一同獻上。
Besides the cakes, he shall offer for his offering leavened bread with the sacrifice of thanksgiving of his peace offerings.

7:14    從各樣的供物中，他要把一個餅獻給耶和華為舉祭，是要歸給灑平安祭牲血的祭司。
And of it he shall offer one out of the whole oblation for an heave offering unto the LORD, and it shall be the priest's that sprinkleth the blood of the peace offerings.

7:15    為感謝獻平安祭牲的肉，要在獻的日子吃，一點不可留到早晨。
And the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings for thanksgiving shall be eaten the same day that it is offered; he shall not leave any of it until the morning.

7:16    若所獻的是為還願，或是甘心獻的，必在獻祭的日子吃，所剩下的第二天也可以吃。
But if the sacrifice of his offering be a vow, or a voluntary offering, it shall be eaten the same day that he offereth his sacrifice: and on the morrow also the remainder of it shall be eaten:

7:17    但所剩下的祭肉，到第三天要用火焚燒。
But the remainder of the flesh of the sacrifice on the third day shall be burnt with fire.

7:18    第三天若吃了平安祭的肉，這祭必不蒙悅納，人所獻的也不算為祭，反為可憎嫌的，吃這祭肉的，就必擔當他的罪孽。
And if any of the flesh of the sacrifice of his peace offerings be eaten at all on the third day, it shall not be accepted, neither shall it be imputed unto him that offereth it: it shall be an abomination, and the soul that eateth of it shall bear his iniquity.

7:19    捱了汙穢物的肉就不可吃，要用火焚燒。至於平安祭的肉，凡潔淨的人都要吃。
And the flesh that toucheth any unclean thing shall not be eaten; it shall be burnt with fire: and as for the flesh, all that be clean shall eat thereof.

7:20    只是獻與耶和華平安祭的肉，人若不潔淨而吃了，這人必從民中剪除。
But the soul that eateth of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, that pertain unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:21    有人摸了什麼不潔淨的物，或是人的不潔淨，或是不潔淨的牲畜，或是不潔可憎之物，吃了獻與耶和華平安祭的肉，這人必從民中剪除。
Moreover the soul that shall touch any unclean thing, as the uncleanness of man, or any unclean beast, or any abominable unclean thing, and eat of the flesh of the sacrifice of peace offerings, which pertain unto the LORD, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:22    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

7:23    你曉諭以色列人說，牛的脂油，綿羊的脂油，山羊的脂油，你們都不可吃。
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Ye shall eat no manner of fat, of ox, or of sheep, or of goat.

7:24    自死的和被野獸撕裂的，那脂油可以作別的使用，只是你們萬不可吃。
And the fat of the beast that dieth of itself, and the fat of that which is torn with beasts, may be used in any other use: but ye shall in no wise eat of it.

7:25    無論何人吃了獻給耶和華當火祭牲畜的脂油，那人必從民中剪除。
For whosoever eateth the fat of the beast, of which men offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD, even the soul that eateth it shall be cut off from his people.

7:26    在你們一切的住處，無論是雀鳥的血是野獸的血，你們都不可吃。
Moreover ye shall eat no manner of blood, whether it be of fowl or of beast, in any of your dwellings.

7:27    無論是誰吃血，那人必從民中剪除。
Whatsoever soul it be that eateth any manner of blood, even that soul shall be cut off from his people.

7:28    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

7:29    你曉諭以色列人說，獻平安祭給耶和華的，要從平安祭中取些來奉給耶和華。
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, He that offereth the sacrifice of his peace offerings unto the LORD shall bring his oblation unto the LORD of the sacrifice of his peace offerings.

7:30    他親手獻給耶和華的火祭，就是脂油和胸，要帶來，好把胸在耶和華面前作搖祭，搖一搖。
His own hands shall bring the offerings of the LORD made by fire, the fat with the breast, it shall he bring, that the breast may be waved for a wave offering before the LORD.

7:31    祭司要把脂油在壇上焚燒，但胸要歸亞倫和他的子孫。
And the priest shall burn the fat upon the altar: but the breast shall be Aaron's and his sons'.

7:32    你們要從平安祭中把右腿作舉祭，奉給祭司。
And the right shoulder shall ye give unto the priest for an heave offering of the sacrifices of your peace offerings.

7:33    亞倫子孫中，獻平安祭牲血和脂油的，要得這右腿為分。
He among the sons of Aaron, that offereth the blood of the peace offerings, and the fat, shall have the right shoulder for his part.

7:34    因為我從以色列人的平安祭中，取了這搖的胸和舉的腿給祭司亞倫和他子孫，作他們從以色列人中所永得的分。
For the wave breast and the heave shoulder have I taken of the children of Israel from off the sacrifices of their peace offerings, and have given them unto Aaron the priest and unto his sons by a statute for ever from among the children of Israel.

7:35    這是從耶和華火祭中，作亞倫受膏的分和他子孫受膏的分，正在摩西（原文作他）叫他們前來給耶和華供祭司職分的日子，
This is the portion of the anointing of Aaron, and of the anointing of his sons, out of the offerings of the LORD made by fire, in the day when he presented them to minister unto the LORD in the priest's office;

7:36    就是在摩西（原文作他）膏他們的日子，耶和華吩咐以色列人給他們的。這是他們世世代代永得的分。
Which the LORD commanded to be given them of the children of Israel, in the day that he anointed them, by a statute for ever throughout their generations.

7:37    這就是燔祭，素祭，贖罪祭，贖愆祭，和平安祭的條例，並承接聖職的禮，
This is the law of the burnt offering, of the meat offering, and of the sin offering, and of the trespass offering, and of the consecrations, and of the sacrifice of the peace offerings;

7:38    都是耶和華在西奈山所吩咐摩西的，就是他在西奈曠野吩咐以色列人獻供物給耶和華之日所說的。
Which the LORD commanded Moses in mount Sinai, in the day that he commanded the children of Israel to offer their oblations unto the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

8:2    你將亞倫和他兒子一同帶來，並將聖衣，膏油，與贖罪祭的一隻公牛，兩隻公綿羊，一筐無酵餅都帶來，
Take Aaron and his sons with him, and the garments, and the anointing oil, and a bullock for the sin offering, and two rams, and a basket of unleavened bread;

8:3    又招聚會眾到會幕門口。
And gather thou all the congregation together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

8:4    摩西就照耶和華所吩咐的行了，於是會眾聚集在會幕門口。
And Moses did as the LORD commanded him; and the assembly was gathered together unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

8:5    摩西告訴會眾說，這就是耶和華所吩咐當行的事。
And Moses said unto the congregation, This is the thing which the LORD commanded to be done.

8:6    摩西帶了亞倫和他兒子來，用水洗了他們。
And Moses brought Aaron and his sons, and washed them with water.

8:7    給亞倫穿上內袍，束上腰帶，穿上外袍，又加上以弗得，用其上巧工織的帶子把以弗得系在他身上，
And he put upon him the coat, and girded him with the girdle, and clothed him with the robe, and put the ephod upon him, and he girded him with the curious girdle of the ephod, and bound it unto him therewith.

8:8    又給他戴上胸牌，把烏陵和土明放在胸牌內，
And he put the breastplate upon him: also he put in the breastplate the Urim and the Thummim.

8:9    把冠冕戴在他頭上，在冠冕的前面釘上金牌，就是聖冠，都是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And he put the mitre upon his head; also upon the mitre, even upon his forefront, did he put the golden plate, the holy crown; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:10    摩西用膏油抹帳幕和其中所有的，使它成聖。
And Moses took the anointing oil, and anointed the tabernacle and all that was therein, and sanctified them.

8:11    又用膏油在壇上彈了七次，又抹了壇和壇的一切器皿，並洗濯盆和盆座，使它成聖。
And he sprinkled thereof upon the altar seven times, and anointed the altar and all his vessels, both the laver and his foot, to sanctify them.

8:12    又把膏油倒在亞倫的頭上膏他，使他成聖。
And he poured of the anointing oil upon Aaron's head, and anointed him, to sanctify him.

8:13    摩西帶了亞倫的兒子來，給他們穿上內袍，束上腰帶，包上裹頭巾，都是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And Moses brought Aaron's sons, and put coats upon them, and girded them with girdles, and put bonnets upon them; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:14    他牽了贖罪祭的公牛來，亞倫和他兒子按手在贖罪祭公牛的頭上，
And he brought the bullock for the sin offering: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the bullock for the sin offering.

8:15    就宰了公牛。摩西用指頭蘸血，抹在壇上四角的周圍，使壇潔淨，把血倒在壇的腳那裡，使壇成聖，壇就潔淨了。
And he slew it; and Moses took the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about with his finger, and purified the altar, and poured the blood at the bottom of the altar, and sanctified it, to make reconciliation upon it.

8:16    又取髒上所有的脂油和肝上的網子，並兩個腰子與腰子上的脂油，都燒在壇上。
And he took all the fat that was upon the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and Moses burned it upon the altar.

8:17    惟有公牛，連皮帶肉並糞，用火燒在營外，都是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
But the bullock, and his hide, his flesh, and his dung, he burnt with fire without the camp; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:18    他奉上燔祭的公綿羊，亞倫和他兒子按手在羊的頭上，
And he brought the ram for the burnt offering: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.

8:19    就宰了公羊。摩西把血灑在壇的周圍，
And he killed it; and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.

8:20    把羊切成塊子，把頭和肉塊並脂油都燒了。
And he cut the ram into pieces; and Moses burnt the head, and the pieces, and the fat.

8:21    用水洗了臟腑和腿，就把全羊燒在壇上為馨香的燔祭，是獻給耶和華的火祭，都是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And he washed the inwards and the legs in water; and Moses burnt the whole ram upon the altar: it was a burnt sacrifice for a sweet savour, and an offering made by fire unto the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:22    他又奉上第二隻公綿羊，就是承接聖職之禮的羊，亞倫和他兒子按手在羊的頭上，
And he brought the other ram, the ram of consecration: and Aaron and his sons laid their hands upon the head of the ram.



8:23    就宰了羊。摩西把些血抹在亞倫的右耳垂上和右手的大拇指上，並右腳的大拇指上，
And he slew it; and Moses took of the blood of it, and put it upon the tip of Aaron's right ear, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot.

8:24    又帶了亞倫的兒子來，把些血抹在他們的右耳垂上和右手的大拇指上，並右腳的大拇指上，又把血灑在壇的周圍。
And he brought Aaron's sons, and Moses put of the blood upon the tip of their right ear, and upon the thumbs of their right hands, and upon the great toes of their right feet: and Moses sprinkled the blood upon the altar round about.

8:25    取脂油和肥尾巴，並髒上一切的脂油與肝上的網子，兩個腰子和腰子上的脂油，並右腿，
And he took the fat, and the rump, and all the fat that was upon the inwards, and the caul above the liver, and the two kidneys, and their fat, and the right shoulder:

8:26    再從耶和華面前，盛無酵餅的筐子裡取出一個無酵餅，一個油餅，一個薄餅，都放在脂油和右腿上，
And out of the basket of unleavened bread, that was before the LORD, he took one unleavened cake, and a cake of oiled bread, and one wafer, and put them on the fat, and upon the right shoulder:

8:27    把這一切放在亞倫的手上和他兒子的手上作搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖。
And he put all upon Aaron's hands, and upon his sons' hands, and waved them for a wave offering before the LORD.

8:28    摩西從他們的手上拿下來，燒在壇上的燔祭上，都是為承接聖職獻給耶和華馨香的火祭。
And Moses took them from off their hands, and burnt them on the altar upon the burnt offering: they were consecrations for a sweet savour: it is an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

8:29    摩西拿羊的胸作為搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖，是承接聖職之禮，歸摩西的分，都是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And Moses took the breast, and waved it for a wave offering before the LORD: for of the ram of consecration it was Moses' part; as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:30    摩西取點膏油和壇上的血，彈在亞倫和他的衣服上，並他兒子和他兒子的衣服上，使他和他們的衣服一同成聖。
And Moses took of the anointing oil, and of the blood which was upon the altar, and sprinkled it upon Aaron, and upon his garments, and upon his sons, and upon his sons' garments with him; and sanctified Aaron, and his garments, and his sons, and his sons' garments with him.

8:31    摩西對亞倫和他兒子說，把肉煮在會幕門口，在那裡吃，又吃承接聖職筐子裡的餅，按我所吩咐的說（或作按所吩咐我的說），這是亞倫和他兒子要吃的。
And Moses said unto Aaron and to his sons, Boil the flesh at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and there eat it with the bread that is in the basket of consecrations, as I commanded, saying, Aaron and his sons shall eat it.

8:32    剩下的肉和餅，你們要用火焚燒。
And that which remaineth of the flesh and of the bread shall ye burn with fire.

8:33    你們七天不可出會幕的門，等到你們承接聖職的日子滿了，因為主叫你們七天承接聖職。
And ye shall not go out of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation in seven days, until the days of your consecration be at an end: for seven days shall he consecrate you.

8:34    像今天所行的都是耶和華吩咐行的，為你們贖罪。
As he hath done this day, so the LORD hath commanded to do, to make an atonement for you.

8:35    七天你們要晝夜住在會幕門口，遵守耶和華的吩咐，免得你們死亡，因為所吩咐我的就是這樣。
Therefore shall ye abide at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation day and night seven days, and keep the charge of the LORD, that ye die not: for so I am commanded.

8:36    於是亞倫和他兒子行了耶和華藉著摩西所吩咐的一切事。
So Aaron and his sons did all things which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


9:1    到了第八天，摩西召了亞倫和他兒子，並以色列的眾長老來，
And it came to pass on the eighth day, that Moses called Aaron and his sons, and the elders of Israel;

9:2    對亞倫說，你當取牛群中的一隻公牛犢作贖罪祭，一隻公綿羊作燔祭，都要沒有殘疾的，獻在耶和華面前。
And he said unto Aaron, Take thee a young calf for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering, without blemish, and offer them before the LORD.

9:3    你也要對以色列人說，你們當取一隻公山羊作贖罪祭，又取一隻牛犢和一隻綿羊羔，都要一歲，沒有殘疾的，作燔祭，
And unto the children of Israel thou shalt speak, saying, Take ye a kid of the goats for a sin offering; and a calf and a lamb, both of the first year, without blemish, for a burnt offering;

9:4    又取一隻公牛，一隻公綿羊作平安祭，獻在耶和華面前，並取調油的素祭，因為今天耶和華要向你們顯現。
Also a bullock and a ram for peace offerings, to sacrifice before the LORD; and a meat offering mingled with oil: for to day the LORD will appear unto you.

9:5    於是他們把摩西所吩咐的，帶到會幕前，全會眾都近前來，站在耶和華面前。
And they brought that which Moses commanded before the tabernacle of the congregation: and all the congregation drew near and stood before the LORD.

9:6    摩西說，這是耶和華吩咐你們所當行的，耶和華的榮光就要向你們顯現。
And Moses said, This is the thing which the LORD commanded that ye should do: and the glory of the LORD shall appear unto you.

9:7    摩西對亞倫說，你就近壇前，獻你的贖罪祭和燔祭，為自己與百姓贖罪，又獻上百姓的供物，為他們贖罪，都照耶和華所吩咐的。
And Moses said unto Aaron, Go unto the altar, and offer thy sin offering, and thy burnt offering, and make an atonement for thyself, and for the people: and offer the offering of the people, and make an atonement for them; as the LORD commanded.

9:8    於是，亞倫就近壇前，宰了為自己作贖罪祭的牛犢。
Aaron therefore went unto the altar, and slew the calf of the sin offering, which was for himself.

9:9    亞倫的兒子把血奉給他，他就把指頭蘸在血中，抹在壇的四角上，又把血倒在壇腳那裡。
And the sons of Aaron brought the blood unto him: and he dipped his finger in the blood, and put it upon the horns of the altar, and poured out the blood at the bottom of the altar:

9:10    惟有贖罪祭的脂油和腰子，並肝上取的網子，都燒在壇上，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
But the fat, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver of the sin offering, he burnt upon the altar; as the LORD commanded Moses.

9:11    又用火將肉和皮燒在營外。
And the flesh and the hide he burnt with fire without the camp.

9:12    亞倫宰了燔祭牲，他兒子把血遞給他，他就灑在壇的周圍，
And he slew the burnt offering; and Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled round about upon the altar.

9:13    又把燔祭一塊一塊地，連頭遞給他，他都燒在壇上。
And they presented the burnt offering unto him, with the pieces thereof, and the head: and he burnt them upon the altar.

9:14    又洗了臟腑和腿，燒在壇上的燔祭上。
And he did wash the inwards and the legs, and burnt them upon the burnt offering on the altar.

9:15    他奉上百姓的供物，把那給百姓作贖罪祭的公山羊宰了，為罪獻上，和先獻的一樣。
And he brought the people's offering, and took the goat, which was the sin offering for the people, and slew it, and offered it for sin, as the first.

9:16    也奉上燔祭，照例而獻。
And he brought the burnt offering, and offered it according to the manner.

9:17    他又奉上素祭，從其中取一滿把，燒在壇上，這是在早晨的燔祭以外。
And he brought the meat offering, and took an handful thereof, and burnt it upon the altar, beside the burnt sacrifice of the morning.

9:18    亞倫宰了那給百姓作平安祭的公牛和公綿羊。他兒子把血遞給他，他就灑在壇的周圍。
He slew also the bullock and the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings, which was for the people: and Aaron's sons presented unto him the blood, which he sprinkled upon the altar round about,

9:19    又把公牛和公綿羊的脂油，肥尾巴，並蓋髒的脂油與腰子，和肝上的網子，都遞給他。
And the fat of the bullock and of the ram, the rump, and that which covereth the inwards, and the kidneys, and the caul above the liver:

9:20    把脂油放在胸上，他就把脂油燒在壇上。
And they put the fat upon the breasts, and he burnt the fat upon the altar:

9:21    胸和右腿，亞倫當作搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖，都是照摩西所吩咐的。
And the breasts and the right shoulder Aaron waved for a wave offering before the LORD; as Moses commanded.

9:22    亞倫向百姓舉手，為他們祝福。他獻了贖罪祭，燔祭，平安祭就下來了。
And Aaron lifted up his hand toward the people, and blessed them, and came down from offering of the sin offering, and the burnt offering, and peace offerings.

9:23    摩西，亞倫進入會幕，又出來為百姓祝福，耶和華的榮光就向眾民顯現。
And Moses and Aaron went into the tabernacle of the congregation, and came out, and blessed the people: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the people.

9:24    有火從耶和華面前出來，在壇上燒盡燔祭和脂油，眾民一見，就都歡呼，俯伏在地。
And there came a fire out from before the LORD, and consumed upon the altar the burnt offering and the fat: which when all the people saw, they shouted, and fell on their faces.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


10:1    亞倫的兒子拿答，亞比戶各拿自己的香爐，盛上火，加上香，在耶和華面前獻上凡火，是耶和華沒有吩咐他們的，
And Nadab and Abihu, the sons of Aaron, took either of them his censer, and put fire therein, and put incense thereon, and offered strange fire before the LORD, which he commanded them not.

10:2    就有火從耶和華面前出來，把他們燒滅，他們就死在耶和華面前。
And there went out fire from the LORD, and devoured them, and they died before the LORD.

10:3    於是摩西對亞倫說，這就是耶和華所說，我在親近我的人中要顯為聖，在眾民面前，我要得榮耀。亞倫就默默不言。
Then Moses said unto Aaron, This is it that the LORD spake, saying, I will be sanctified in them that come nigh me, and before all the people I will be glorified. And Aaron held his peace.

10:4    摩西召了亞倫叔父烏薛的兒子米沙利，以利撒反來，對他們說，上前來，把你們的親屬從聖所前抬到營外。
And Moses called Mishael and Elzaphan, the sons of Uzziel the uncle of Aaron, and said unto them, Come near, carry your brethren from before the sanctuary out of the camp.

10:5    於是二人上前來，把他們穿著袍子抬到營外，是照摩西所吩咐的。
So they went near, and carried them in their coats out of the camp; as Moses had said.

10:6    摩西對亞倫和他兒子以利亞撒，以他瑪說，不可蓬頭散發，也不可撕裂衣裳，免得你們死亡，又免得耶和華向會眾發怒，只要你們的弟兄以色列全家為耶和華所發的火哀哭。
And Moses said unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons, Uncover not your heads, neither rend your clothes; lest ye die, and lest wrath come upon all the people: but let your brethren, the whole house of Israel, bewail the burning which the LORD hath kindled.

10:7    你們也不可出會幕的門，恐怕你們死亡，因為耶和華的膏油在你們的身上。他們就照摩西的話行了。
And ye shall not go out from the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: for the anointing oil of the LORD is upon you. And they did according to the word of Moses.

10:8    耶和華曉諭亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Aaron, saying,

10:9    你和你兒子進會幕的時候，清酒，濃酒都不可喝，免得你們死亡，這要作你們世世代代永遠的定例。
Do not drink wine nor strong drink, thou, nor thy sons with thee, when ye go into the tabernacle of the congregation, lest ye die: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations:

10:10    使你們可以將聖的，俗的，潔淨的，不潔淨的，分別出來。
And that ye may put difference between holy and unholy, and between unclean and clean;

10:11    又使你們可以將耶和華藉摩西曉諭以色列人的一切律例教訓他們。
And that ye may teach the children of Israel all the statutes which the LORD hath spoken unto them by the hand of Moses.

10:12    摩西對亞倫和他剩下的兒子以利亞撒，以他瑪說，你們獻給耶和華火祭中所剩的素祭，要在壇旁不帶酵而吃，因為是至聖的。
And Moses spake unto Aaron, and unto Eleazar and unto Ithamar, his sons that were left, Take the meat offering that remaineth of the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and eat it without leaven beside the altar: for it is most holy:

10:13    你們要在聖處吃，因為在獻給耶和華的火祭中，這是你的分和你兒子的分，所吩咐我的本是這樣。
And ye shall eat it in the holy place, because it is thy due, and thy sons' due, of the sacrifices of the LORD made by fire: for so I am commanded.

10:14    所搖的胸，所舉的腿，你們要在潔淨地方吃。你和你的兒女都要同吃，因為這些是從以色列人平安祭中給你，當你的分和你兒子的分。
And the wave breast and heave shoulder shall ye eat in a clean place; thou, and thy sons, and thy daughters with thee: for they be thy due, and thy sons' due, which are given out of the sacrifices of peace offerings of the children of Israel.

10:15    所舉的腿，所搖的胸，他們要與火祭的脂油一同帶來當搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖，這要歸你和你兒子，當作永得的分，都是照耶和華所吩咐的。
The heave shoulder and the wave breast shall they bring with the offerings made by fire of the fat, to wave it for a wave offering before the LORD; and it shall be thine, and thy sons' with thee, by a statute for ever; as the LORD hath commanded.

10:16    當下摩西急切地尋梢作贖罪祭的公山羊，誰知已經焚燒了，便向亞倫剩下的兒子以利亞撒，以他瑪發怒，說，
And Moses diligently sought the goat of the sin offering, and, behold, it was burnt: and he was angry with Eleazar and Ithamar, the sons of Aaron which were left alive, saying,

10:17    這贖罪祭既是至聖的，主又給了你們，為要你們擔當會眾的罪孽，在耶和華面前為他們贖罪，你們為何沒有在聖所吃呢。
Wherefore have ye not eaten the sin offering in the holy place, seeing it is most holy, and God hath given it you to bear the iniquity of the congregation, to make atonement for them before the LORD?

10:18    看哪，這祭牲的血並沒有拿到聖所裡去，你們本當照我所吩咐的，在聖所裡吃這祭肉。
Behold, the blood of it was not brought in within the holy place: ye should indeed have eaten it in the holy place, as I commanded.

10:19    亞倫對摩西說，今天他們在耶和華面前獻上贖罪祭和燔祭，我又遇見這樣的災，若今天吃了贖罪祭，耶和華豈能看為美呢。
And Aaron said unto Moses, Behold, this day have they offered their sin offering and their burnt offering before the LORD; and such things have befallen me: and if I had eaten the sin offering to day, should it have been accepted in the sight of the LORD?

10:20    摩西聽見這話，便以為美。
And when Moses heard that, he was content.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


11:1    耶和華對摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying unto them,

11:2    你們曉諭以色列人說，在地上一切走獸中可吃的乃是這些，
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, These are the beasts which ye shall eat among all the beasts that are on the earth.

11:3    凡蹄分兩瓣，倒嚼的走獸，你們都可以吃。
Whatsoever parteth the hoof, and is clovenfooted, and cheweth the cud, among the beasts, that shall ye eat.

11:4    但那倒嚼或分蹄之中不可吃的乃是駱駝，因為倒嚼不分蹄，就與你們不潔淨。
Nevertheless these shall ye not eat of them that chew the cud, or of them that divide the hoof: as the camel, because he cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:5    沙番因為倒嚼不分蹄，就與你們不潔淨。
And the coney, because he cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:6    兔子因為倒嚼不分蹄，就與你們不潔淨。
And the hare, because he cheweth the cud, but divideth not the hoof; he is unclean unto you.

11:7    豬因為蹄分兩瓣，卻不倒嚼，就與你們不潔淨。
And the swine, though he divide the hoof, and be clovenfooted, yet he cheweth not the cud; he is unclean to you.

11:8    這些獸的肉，你們不可吃，死的，你們不可摸，都與你們不潔淨。
Of their flesh shall ye not eat, and their carcase shall ye not touch; they are unclean to you.



11:9    水中可吃的乃是這些，凡在水裡，海里，河裡，有翅有鱗的，都可以吃。
These shall ye eat of all that are in the waters: whatsoever hath fins and scales in the waters, in the seas, and in the rivers, them shall ye eat.

11:10    凡在海里，河裡，並一切水裡遊動的活物，無翅無鱗的，你們都當以為可憎。
And all that have not fins and scales in the seas, and in the rivers, of all that move in the waters, and of any living thing which is in the waters, they shall be an abomination unto you:

11:11    這些無翅無鱗，以為可憎的，你們不可吃它的肉，死的也當以為可憎。
They shall be even an abomination unto you; ye shall not eat of their flesh, but ye shall have their carcases in abomination.

11:12    凡水裡無翅無鱗的，你們都當以為可憎。
Whatsoever hath no fins nor scales in the waters, that shall be an abomination unto you.

11:13    雀鳥中你們當以為可憎，不可吃的乃是，雕，狗頭雕，紅頭雕，
And these are they which ye shall have in abomination among the fowls; they shall not be eaten, they are an abomination: the eagle, and the ossifrage, and the ospray,

11:14    鷂鷹，小鷹與其類。
And the vulture, and the kite after his kind;

11:15    烏鴉與其類。
Every raven after his kind;

11:16    鴕鳥，夜鷹，魚鷹，鷹與其類。
And the owl, and the night hawk, and the cuckow, and the hawk after his kind,

11:17    鸮鳥，鸕鶿，貓頭鷹，
And the little owl, and the cormorant, and the great owl,

11:18    角鴟，鵜鶘，禿雕，
And the swan, and the pelican, and the gier eagle,

11:19    鸛，鷺鷥與其類，戴鵀與蝙蝠。
And the stork, the heron after her kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.

11:20    凡有翅膀用四足爬行的物，你們都當以為可憎。
All fowls that creep, going upon all four, shall be an abomination unto you.

11:21    只是有翅膀用四足爬行的物中，有足有腿，在地上蹦跳的，你們還可以吃。
Yet these may ye eat of every flying creeping thing that goeth upon all four, which have legs above their feet, to leap withal upon the earth;

11:22    其中有蝗蟲，螞蚱，蟋蟀與其類，蚱蜢與其類，這些你們都可以吃。
Even these of them ye may eat; the locust after his kind, and the bald locust after his kind, and the beetle after his kind, and the grasshopper after his kind.

11:23    但是有翅膀有四足的爬物，你們都當以為可憎。
But all other flying creeping things, which have four feet, shall be an abomination unto you.

11:24    這些都能使你們不潔淨。凡摸了死的，必不潔淨到晚上。
And for these ye shall be unclean: whosoever toucheth the carcase of them shall be unclean until the even.

11:25    凡拿了死的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服。
And whosoever beareth ought of the carcase of them shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even.

11:26    凡走獸分蹄不成兩瓣，也不倒嚼的，是與你們不潔淨，凡摸了的就不潔淨。
The carcases of every beast which divideth the hoof, and is not clovenfooted, nor cheweth the cud, are unclean unto you: every one that toucheth them shall be unclean.

11:27    凡四足的走獸，用掌行走的，是與你們不潔淨，摸其屍的，必不潔淨到晚上。
And whatsoever goeth upon his paws, among all manner of beasts that go on all four, those are unclean unto you: whoso toucheth their carcase shall be unclean until the even.

11:28    拿其屍的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服。這些是與你們不潔淨的。
And he that beareth the carcase of them shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: they are unclean unto you.

11:29    地上爬物與你們不潔淨的乃是這些，鼬鼠，鼫鼠，蜥蜴與其類。
These also shall be unclean unto you among the creeping things that creep upon the earth; the weasel, and the mouse, and the tortoise after his kind,

11:30    壁虎，龍子，守宮，蛇醫，蝘蜓。
And the ferret, and the chameleon, and the lizard, and the snail, and the mole.

11:31    這些爬物都是與你們不潔淨的。在它死了以後，凡摸了的，必不潔淨到晚上。
These are unclean to you among all that creep: whosoever doth touch them, when they be dead, shall be unclean until the even.

11:32    其中死了的，掉在什麼東西上，這東西就不潔淨，無論是木器，衣服，皮子，口袋，不拘是作什麼工用的器皿，須要放在水中，必不潔淨到晚上，到晚上才潔淨了。
And upon whatsoever any of them, when they are dead, doth fall, it shall be unclean; whether it be any vessel of wood, or raiment, or skin, or sack, whatsoever vessel it be, wherein any work is done, it must be put into water, and it shall be unclean until the even; so it shall be cleansed.

11:33    若有死了掉在瓦器裡的，其中不拘有什麼，就不潔淨，你們要把這瓦器打破了。
And every earthen vessel, whereinto any of them falleth, whatsoever is in it shall be unclean; and ye shall break it.

11:34    其中一切可吃的食物，沾水的就不潔淨，並且那樣器皿中一切可喝的，也必不潔淨。
Of all meat which may be eaten, that on which such water cometh shall be unclean: and all drink that may be drunk in every such vessel shall be unclean.

11:35    其中已死的，若有一點掉在什麼物件上，那物件就不潔淨，不拘是爐子，是鍋臺，就要打碎，都不潔淨，也必與你們不潔淨。
And every thing whereupon any part of their carcase falleth shall be unclean; whether it be oven, or ranges for pots, they shall be broken down: for they are unclean, and shall be unclean unto you.

11:36    但是泉源或是聚水的池子仍是潔淨，惟捱了那死的，就不潔淨。
Nevertheless a fountain or pit, wherein there is plenty of water, shall be clean: but that which toucheth their carcase shall be unclean.

11:37    若是死的，有一點掉在要種的子粒上，子粒仍是潔淨。
And if any part of their carcase fall upon any sowing seed which is to be sown, it shall be clean.

11:38    若水已經澆在子粒上，那死的有一點掉在上頭，這子粒就與你們不潔淨。
But if any water be put upon the seed, and any part of their carcase fall thereon, it shall be unclean unto you.

11:39    你們可吃的走獸若是死了，有人摸它，必不潔淨到晚上。
And if any beast, of which ye may eat, die; he that toucheth the carcase thereof shall be unclean until the even.

11:40    有人吃那死了的走獸，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，拿了死走獸的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服。
And he that eateth of the carcase of it shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: he also that beareth the carcase of it shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even.

11:41    凡地上的爬物是可憎的，都不可吃。
And every creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth shall be an abomination; it shall not be eaten.

11:42    凡用肚子行走的和用四足行走的，或是有許多足的，就是一切爬在地上的，你們都不可吃，因為是可憎的。
Whatsoever goeth upon the belly, and whatsoever goeth upon all four, or whatsoever hath more feet among all creeping things that creep upon the earth, them ye shall not eat; for they are an abomination.

11:43    你們不可因什麼爬物使自己成為可憎的，也不可因這些使自己不潔淨，以致染了汙穢。
Ye shall not make yourselves abominable with any creeping thing that creepeth, neither shall ye make yourselves unclean with them, that ye should be defiled thereby.

11:44    我是耶和華你們的神，所以你們要成為聖潔，因為我是聖潔的。你們也不可在地上的爬物汙穢自己。
For I am the LORD your God: ye shall therefore sanctify yourselves, and ye shall be holy; for I am holy: neither shall ye defile yourselves with any manner of creeping thing that creepeth upon the earth.

11:45    我是把你們從埃及地領出來的耶和華，要作你們的神，所以你們要聖潔，因為我是聖潔的。
For I am the LORD that bringeth you up out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: ye shall therefore be holy, for I am holy.

11:46    這是走獸，飛鳥，和水中游動的活物，並地上爬物的條例。
This is the law of the beasts, and of the fowl, and of every living creature that moveth in the waters, and of every creature that creepeth upon the earth:

11:47    要把潔淨的和不潔淨的，可吃的與不可吃的活物，都分別出來。
To make a difference between the unclean and the clean, and between the beast that may be eaten and the beast that may not be eaten.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　




12:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

12:2    你曉諭以色列人說，若有婦人懷孕生男孩，她就不潔淨七天，像在月經汙穢的日子不潔淨一樣。
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a woman have conceived seed, and born a man child: then she shall be unclean seven days; according to the days of the separation for her infirmity shall she be unclean.

12:3    第八天，要給嬰孩行割禮。
And in the eighth day the flesh of his foreskin shall be circumcised.

12:4    婦人在產血不潔之中，要家居三十三天。她潔淨的日子未滿，不可摸聖物，也不可進入聖所。
And she shall then continue in the blood of her purifying three and thirty days; she shall touch no hallowed thing, nor come into the sanctuary, until the days of her purifying be fulfilled.

12:5    她若生女孩，就不潔淨兩個七天，像汙穢的時候一樣，要在產血不潔之中，家居六十六天。
But if she bear a maid child, then she shall be unclean two weeks, as in her separation: and she shall continue in the blood of her purifying threescore and six days.

12:6    滿了潔淨的日子，無論是為男孩是為女孩，她要把一歲的羊羔為燔祭，一隻雛鴿或是一隻斑鳩為贖罪祭，帶到會幕門口交給祭司。
And when the days of her purifying are fulfilled, for a son, or for a daughter, she shall bring a lamb of the first year for a burnt offering, and a young pigeon, or a turtledove, for a sin offering, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest:

12:7    祭司要獻在耶和華面前，為她贖罪，她的血源就潔淨了。這條例是為生育的婦人，無論是生男生女。
Who shall offer it before the LORD, and make an atonement for her; and she shall be cleansed from the issue of her blood. This is the law for her that hath born a male or a female.

12:8    她的力量若不夠獻一隻羊羔，她就要取兩隻斑鳩或是兩隻雛鴿，一隻為燔祭，一隻為贖罪祭。祭司要為她贖罪，她就潔淨了。
And if she be not able to bring a lamb, then she shall bring two turtles, or two young pigeons; the one for the burnt offering, and the other for a sin offering: and the priest shall make an atonement for her, and she shall be clean.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


13:1    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, saying,

13:2    人的肉皮上若長了癤子，或長了癬，或長了火斑，在他肉皮上成了大麻瘋的災病，就要將他帶到祭司亞倫或亞倫作祭司的一個子孫面前。
When a man shall have in the skin of his flesh a rising, a scab, or bright spot, and it be in the skin of his flesh like the plague of leprosy; then he shall be brought unto Aaron the priest, or unto one of his sons the priests:



13:3    祭司要察看肉皮上的災病，若災病處的毛已經變白，災病的現象深於肉上的皮，這便是大麻瘋的災病。祭司要察看他，定他為不潔淨。
And the priest shall look on the plague in the skin of the flesh: and when the hair in the plague is turned white, and the plague in sight be deeper than the skin of his flesh, it is a plague of leprosy: and the priest shall look on him, and pronounce him unclean.

13:4    若火斑在他肉皮上是白的，現象不深於皮，其上的毛也沒有變白，祭司就要將有災病的人關鎖七天。
If the bright spot be white in the skin of his flesh, and in sight be not deeper than the skin, and the hair thereof be not turned white; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague seven days:

13:5    第七天，祭司要察看他，若看災病止住了，沒有在皮上發散，祭司還要將他關鎖七天。
And the priest shall look on him the seventh day: and, behold, if the plague in his sight be at a stay, and the plague spread not in the skin; then the priest shall shut him up seven days more:

13:6    第七天，祭司要再察看他，若災病發暗，而且沒有在皮上發散，祭司要定他為潔淨，原來是癬，那人就要洗衣服，得為潔淨。
And the priest shall look on him again the seventh day: and, behold, if the plague be somewhat dark, and the plague spread not in the skin, the priest shall pronounce him clean: it is but a scab: and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.

13:7    但他為得潔淨，將身體給祭司察看以後，癬若在皮上發散開了，他要再將身體給祭司察看。
But if the scab spread much abroad in the skin, after that he hath been seen of the priest for his cleansing, he shall be seen of the priest again:

13:8    祭司要察看，癬若在皮上發散，就要定他為不潔淨，是大麻瘋。
And if the priest see that, behold, the scab spreadeth in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a leprosy.

13:9    人有了大麻瘋的災病，就要將他帶到祭司面前。
When the plague of leprosy is in a man, then he shall be brought unto the priest;

13:10    祭司要察看，皮上若長了白癤，使毛變白，在長白癤之處有了紅瘀肉，
And the priest shall see him: and, behold, if the rising be white in the skin, and it have turned the hair white, and there be quick raw flesh in the rising;

13:11    這是肉皮上的舊大麻瘋，祭司要定他為不潔淨，不用將他關鎖，因為他是不潔淨了。
It is an old leprosy in the skin of his flesh, and the priest shall pronounce him unclean, and shall not shut him up: for he is unclean.

13:12    大麻瘋若在皮上四外發散，長滿了患災病人的皮，據祭司察看，從頭到腳無處不有，
And if a leprosy break out abroad in the skin, and the leprosy cover all the skin of him that hath the plague from his head even to his foot, wheresoever the priest looketh;

13:13    祭司就要察看，全身的肉若長滿了大麻瘋，就要定那患災病的為潔淨，全身都變為白，他乃潔淨了。
Then the priest shall consider: and, behold, if the leprosy have covered all his flesh, he shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague: it is all turned white: he is clean.

13:14    但紅肉幾時顯在他的身上就幾時不潔淨。
But when raw flesh appeareth in him, he shall be unclean.

13:15    祭司一看那紅肉就定他為不潔淨。紅肉本是不潔淨，是大麻瘋。
And the priest shall see the raw flesh, and pronounce him to be unclean: for the raw flesh is unclean: it is a leprosy.

13:16    紅肉若復原，又變白了，他就要來見祭司。
Or if the raw flesh turn again, and be changed unto white, he shall come unto the priest;

13:17    祭司要察看，災病處若變白了，祭司就要定那患災病的為潔淨，他乃潔淨了。
And the priest shall see him: and, behold, if the plague be turned into white; then the priest shall pronounce him clean that hath the plague: he is clean.

13:18    人若在皮肉上長瘡，卻治好了，
The flesh also, in which, even in the skin thereof, was a boil, and is healed,

13:19    在長瘡之處又起了白癤，或是白中帶紅的火斑，就要給祭司察看。
And in the place of the boil there be a white rising, or a bright spot, white, and somewhat reddish, and it be shewed to the priest;

13:20    祭司要察看，若現象窪於皮，其上的毛也變白了，就要定他為不潔淨，是大麻瘋的災病發在瘡中。
And if, when the priest seeth it, behold, it be in sight lower than the skin, and the hair thereof be turned white; the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a plague of leprosy broken out of the boil.

13:21    祭司若察看，其上沒有白毛，也沒有窪於皮，乃是發暗，就要將他關鎖七天。
But if the priest look on it, and, behold, there be no white hairs therein, and if it be not lower than the skin, but be somewhat dark; then the priest shall shut him up seven days:

13:22    若在皮上發散開了，祭司就要定他為不潔淨，是災病。
And if it spread much abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a plague.

13:23    火斑若在原處止住，沒有發散，便是瘡的痕跡，祭司就要定他為潔淨。
But if the bright spot stay in his place, and spread not, it is a burning boil; and the priest shall pronounce him clean.

13:24    人的皮肉上若起了火毒，火毒的瘀肉成了火斑，或是白中帶紅的，或是全白，
Or if there be any flesh, in the skin whereof there is a hot burning, and the quick flesh that burneth have a white bright spot, somewhat reddish, or white;

13:25    祭司就要察看，火斑中的毛若變白了，現象又深於皮，是大麻瘋在火毒中發出，就要定他為不潔淨，是大麻瘋的災病。
Then the priest shall look upon it: and, behold, if the hair in the bright spot be turned white, and it be in sight deeper than the skin; it is a leprosy broken out of the burning: wherefore the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is the plague of leprosy.

13:26    但是祭司察看，在火斑中若沒有白毛，也沒有窪於皮，乃是發暗，就要將他關鎖七天。
But if the priest look on it, and, behold, there be no white hair in the bright spot, and it be no lower than the other skin, but be somewhat dark; then the priest shall shut him up seven days:

13:27    到第七天，祭司要察看他，火斑若在皮上發散開了，就要定他為不潔淨，是大麻瘋的災病。
And the priest shall look upon him the seventh day: and if it be spread much abroad in the skin, then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is the plague of leprosy.

13:28    火斑若在原處止住，沒有在皮上發散，乃是發暗，是起的火毒，祭司要定他為潔淨，不過是火毒的痕跡。
And if the bright spot stay in his place, and spread not in the skin, but it be somewhat dark; it is a rising of the burning, and the priest shall pronounce him clean: for it is an inflammation of the burning.

13:29    無論男女，若在頭上有災病，或是男人鬍鬚上有災病，
If a man or woman have a plague upon the head or the beard;

13:30    祭司就要察看，這災病現象若深於皮，其間有細黃毛，就要定他為不潔淨，這是頭疥，是頭上或是鬍鬚上的大麻瘋。
Then the priest shall see the plague: and, behold, if it be in sight deeper than the skin; and there be in it a yellow thin hair; then the priest shall pronounce him unclean: it is a dry scall, even a leprosy upon the head or beard.

13:31    祭司若察看頭疥的災病，現象不深於皮，其間也沒有黑毛，就要將長頭疥災病的關鎖七天。
And if the priest look on the plague of the scall, and, behold, it be not in sight deeper than the skin, and that there is no black hair in it; then the priest shall shut up him that hath the plague of the scall seven days:

13:32    第七天，祭司要察看災病，若頭疥沒有發散，其間也沒有黃毛，頭疥的現象不深於皮，
And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the plague: and, behold, if the scall spread not, and there be in it no yellow hair, and the scall be not in sight deeper than the skin;

13:33    那人就要剃去鬚髮，但他不可剃頭疥之處。祭司要將那長頭疥的，再關鎖七天。
He shall be shaven, but the scall shall he not shave; and the priest shall shut up him that hath the scall seven days more:

13:34    第七天，祭司要察看頭疥，頭疥若沒有在皮上發散，現象也不深於皮，就要定他為潔淨，他要洗衣服，便成為潔淨。
And in the seventh day the priest shall look on the scall: and, behold, if the scall be not spread in the skin, nor be in sight deeper than the skin; then the priest shall pronounce him clean: and he shall wash his clothes, and be clean.

13:35    但他得潔淨以後，頭疥若在皮上發散開了，
But if the scall spread much in the skin after his cleansing;

13:36    祭司就要察看他。頭疥若在皮上發散，就不必找那黃毛，他是不潔淨了。
Then the priest shall look on him: and, behold, if the scall be spread in the skin, the priest shall not seek for yellow hair; he is unclean.

13:37    祭司若看頭疥已經止住，其間也長了黑毛，頭疥已然痊癒，那人是潔淨了，就要定他為潔淨。
But if the scall be in his sight at a stay, and that there is black hair grown up therein; the scall is healed, he is clean: and the priest shall pronounce him clean.

13:38    無論男女，皮肉上若起了火斑，就飼白火斑，
If a man also or a woman have in the skin of their flesh bright spots, even white bright spots;

13:39    祭司就要察看，他們肉皮上的火斑若白中帶黑，這是皮上發出的白癬，那人是潔淨了。
Then the priest shall look: and, behold, if the bright spots in the skin of their flesh be darkish white; it is a freckled spot that groweth in the skin; he is clean.

13:40    人頭上的發若掉了，他不過是頭禿，還是潔淨。
And the man whose hair is fallen off his head, he is bald; yet is he clean.

13:41    他頂前若掉了頭髮，他不過是頂門禿，還是潔淨。
And he that hath his hair fallen off from the part of his head toward his face, he is forehead bald: yet is he clean.

13:42    頭禿處或是頂門禿處若有白中帶紅的災病，這就是大麻瘋發在他頭禿處或是頂門禿處，
And if there be in the bald head, or bald forehead, a white reddish sore; it is a leprosy sprung up in his bald head, or his bald forehead.

13:43    祭司就要察看，他起的那災病若在頭禿處或是頂門禿處有白中帶紅的，像肉皮上大麻瘋的現象，
Then the priest shall look upon it: and, behold, if the rising of the sore be white reddish in his bald head, or in his bald forehead, as the leprosy appeareth in the skin of the flesh;

13:44    那人就是長大麻瘋，不潔淨的，祭司總要定他為不潔淨，他的災病是在頭上。
He is a leprous man, he is unclean: the priest shall pronounce him utterly unclean; his plague is in his head.

13:45    身上有長大麻瘋災病的，他的衣服要撕裂，也要蓬頭散發，蒙著上脣，喊叫說，不潔淨了，不潔淨了。
And the leper in whom the plague is, his clothes shall be rent, and his head bare, and he shall put a covering upon his upper lip, and shall cry, Unclean, unclean.

13:46    災病在他身上的日子，他便是不潔淨，他既是不潔淨，就要獨居營外。
All the days wherein the plague shall be in him he shall be defiled; he is unclean: he shall dwell alone; without the camp shall his habitation be.

13:47    染了大麻瘋災病的衣服，無論是羊毛衣服，是麻布衣服，
The garment also that the plague of leprosy is in, whether it be a woollen garment, or a linen garment;

13:48    無論是在經上，在緯上，是麻布的，是羊毛的，是在皮子上，或在皮子作的什麼物件上，
Whether it be in the warp, or woof; of linen, or of woollen; whether in a skin, or in any thing made of skin;

13:49    或在衣服上，皮子上，經上，緯上，或在皮子作的什麼物件上，這災病若是發綠，或是發紅，是大麻瘋的災病，要給祭司察看。
And if the plague be greenish or reddish in the garment, or in the skin, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any thing of skin; it is a plague of leprosy, and shall be shewed unto the priest:

13:50    祭司就要察看那災病，把染了災病的物件關鎖七天。
And the priest shall look upon the plague, and shut up it that hath the plague seven days:

13:51    第七天，他要察看那災病，災病或在衣服上，經上，緯上，皮子上，若發散，這皮子無論當作何用，這災病是蠶食的大麻瘋，都是不潔淨了。
And he shall look on the plague on the seventh day: if the plague be spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in a skin, or in any work that is made of skin; the plague is a fretting leprosy; it is unclean.

13:52    那染了災病的衣服，或是經上，緯上，羊毛上，麻衣上，或是皮子作的什麼物件上，他都要焚燒，因為這是蠶食的大麻瘋，必在火中焚燒。
He shall therefore burn that garment, whether warp or woof, in woollen or in linen, or any thing of skin, wherein the plague is: for it is a fretting leprosy; it shall be burnt in the fire.

13:53    祭司要察看，若災病在衣服上，經上，緯上，或是皮子作的什麼物件上，沒有發散，
And if the priest shall look, and, behold, the plague be not spread in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any thing of skin;

13:54    祭司就要吩咐他們，把染了災病的物件洗了，再關鎖七天。
Then the priest shall command that they wash the thing wherein the plague is, and he shall shut it up seven days more:

13:55    洗過以後，祭司要察看，那物件若沒有變色，災病也沒有消散，那物件就不潔淨，是透重的災病，無論正面反面，都要在火中焚燒。
And the priest shall look on the plague, after that it is washed: and, behold, if the plague have not changed his colour, and the plague be not spread; it is unclean; thou shalt burn it in the fire; it is fret inward, whether it be bare within or without.

13:56    洗過以後，祭司要察看，若見那災病發暗，他就要把那災病從衣服上，皮子上，經上，緯上，都撕去。
And if the priest look, and, behold, the plague be somewhat dark after the washing of it; then he shall rend it out of the garment, or out of the skin, or out of the warp, or out of the woof:

13:57    若仍現在衣服上，或是經上，緯上，皮子作的什麼物件上，這就是災病又發了，必用火焚燒那染災病的物件。
And if it appear still in the garment, either in the warp, or in the woof, or in any thing of skin; it is a spreading plague: thou shalt burn that wherein the plague is with fire.

13:58    所洗的衣服，或是經，或是緯，或是皮子作的什麼物件，若災病離開了，要再洗，就潔淨了。
And the garment, either warp, or woof, or whatsoever thing of skin it be, which thou shalt wash, if the plague be departed from them, then it shall be washed the second time, and shall be clean.

13:59    這就是大麻瘋災病的條例，無論是在羊毛衣服上，麻布衣服上，經上，緯上，和皮子作的什麼物件上，可以定為潔淨或是不潔淨。
This is the law of the plague of leprosy in a garment of woollen or linen, either in the warp, or woof, or any thing of skins, to pronounce it clean, or to pronounce it unclean.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


14:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

14:2    長大麻瘋得潔淨的日子，其例乃是這樣，要帶他去見祭司。
This shall be the law of the leper in the day of his cleansing: He shall be brought unto the priest:

14:3    祭司要出到營外察看，若見他的大麻瘋痊癒了，
And the priest shall go forth out of the camp; and the priest shall look, and, behold, if the plague of leprosy be healed in the leper;

14:4    就要吩咐人為那求潔淨的拿兩隻潔淨的活鳥和香柏木，硃紅色線，並牛膝草來。
Then shall the priest command to take for him that is to be cleansed two birds alive and clean, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop:

14:5    祭司要吩咐用瓦器盛活水，把一隻鳥宰在上面。
And the priest shall command that one of the birds be killed in an earthen vessel over running water:

14:6    至於那隻活鳥，祭司要把它和香柏木，硃紅色線並牛膝草一同蘸於宰在活水上的鳥血中，
As for the living bird, he shall take it, and the cedar wood, and the scarlet, and the hyssop, and shall dip them and the living bird in the blood of the bird that was killed over the running water:

14:7    用以在那長大麻瘋求潔淨的人身上灑七次，就定他為潔淨，又把活鳥放在田野裡。
And he shall sprinkle upon him that is to be cleansed from the leprosy seven times, and shall pronounce him clean, and shall let the living bird loose into the open field.

14:8    求潔淨的人當洗衣服，剃去毛髮，用水洗澡，就潔淨了，然後可以進營，只是要在自己的帳棚外居住七天。
And he that is to be cleansed shall wash his clothes, and shave off all his hair, and wash himself in water, that he may be clean: and after that he shall come into the camp, and shall tarry abroad out of his tent seven days.

14:9    第七天，再把頭上所有的頭髮與鬍鬚，眉毛，並全身的毛，都剃了，又要洗衣服，用水洗身，就潔淨了。
But it shall be on the seventh day, that he shall shave all his hair off his head and his beard and his eyebrows, even all his hair he shall shave off: and he shall wash his clothes, also he shall wash his flesh in water, and he shall be clean.

14:10    第八天，他要取兩隻沒有殘疾的公羊羔和一隻沒有殘疾，一歲的母羊羔，又要把調油的細面伊法十分之三為素祭，並油一羅革，一同取來。
And on the eighth day he shall take two he lambs without blemish, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish, and three tenth deals of fine flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and one log of oil.

14:11    行潔淨之禮的祭司要將那求潔淨的人和這些東西安置在會幕門口，耶和華面前。
And the priest that maketh him clean shall present the man that is to be made clean, and those things, before the LORD, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation:

14:12    祭司要取一隻公羊羔獻為贖愆祭，和那一羅革油一同作搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖。
And the priest shall take one he lamb, and offer him for a trespass offering, and the log of oil, and wave them for a wave offering before the LORD:

14:13    把公羊羔宰於聖地，就是宰贖罪祭牲和燔祭牲之地。贖愆祭要歸祭司，與贖罪祭一樣，是至聖的。
And he shall slay the lamb in the place where he shall kill the sin offering and the burnt offering, in the holy place: for as the sin offering is the priest's, so is the trespass offering: it is most holy:

14:14    祭司要取些贖愆祭牲的血，抹在求潔淨人的右耳垂上和右手的大拇指上，並右腳的大拇指上。
And the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and the priest shall put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot:

14:15    祭司要從那一羅革油中取些倒在自己的左手掌裡，
And the priest shall take some of the log of oil, and pour it into the palm of his own left hand:

14:16    把右手的一個指頭蘸在左手的油裡，在耶和華面前用指頭彈七次。
And the priest shall dip his right finger in the oil that is in his left hand, and shall sprinkle of the oil with his finger seven times before the LORD:

14:17    將手裡所剩的油抹在那求潔淨人的右耳垂上和右手的大拇指上，並右腳的大拇指上，就是抹在贖愆祭牲的血上。
And of the rest of the oil that is in his hand shall the priest put upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the blood of the trespass offering:

14:18    祭司手裡所剩的油要抹在那求潔淨人的頭上，在耶和華面前為他贖罪。
And the remnant of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall pour upon the head of him that is to be cleansed: and the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD.

14:19    祭司要獻贖罪祭，為那本不潔淨，求潔淨的人贖罪，然後要宰燔祭牲，
And the priest shall offer the sin offering, and make an atonement for him that is to be cleansed from his uncleanness; and afterward he shall kill the burnt offering:

14:20    把燔祭和素祭獻在壇上，為他贖罪，他就潔淨了。
And the priest shall offer the burnt offering and the meat offering upon the altar: and the priest shall make an atonement for him, and he shall be clean.

14:21    他若貧窮不能預備夠數，就要取一隻公羊羔作贖愆祭，可以搖一搖，為他贖罪，也要把調油的細面伊法十分之一為素祭，和油一羅革一同取來。
And if he be poor, and cannot get so much; then he shall take one lamb for a trespass offering to be waved, to make an atonement for him, and one tenth deal of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering, and a log of oil;

14:22    又照他的力量取兩隻斑鳩或是兩隻雛鴿，一隻作贖罪祭，一隻作燔祭。
And two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, such as he is able to get; and the one shall be a sin offering, and the other a burnt offering.

14:23    第八天，要為潔淨，把這些帶到會幕門口，耶和華面前，交給祭司。
And he shall bring them on the eighth day for his cleansing unto the priest, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, before the LORD.

14:24    祭司要把贖愆祭的羊羔和那一羅革油一同作搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖。
And the priest shall take the lamb of the trespass offering, and the log of oil, and the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD:

14:25    要宰了贖愆祭的羊羔，取些贖愆祭牲的血，抹在那求潔淨人的右耳垂上和右手的大拇指上，並右腳的大拇指上。
And he shall kill the lamb of the trespass offering, and the priest shall take some of the blood of the trespass offering, and put it upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot:

14:26    祭司要把些油倒在自己的左手掌裡，
And the priest shall pour of the oil into the palm of his own left hand:

14:27    把左手裡的油，在耶和華面前，用右手的一個指頭彈七次，
And the priest shall sprinkle with his right finger some of the oil that is in his left hand seven times before the LORD:

14:28    又把手裡的油抹些在那求潔淨人的右耳垂上和右手的大拇指上，並右腳的大拇指上，就是抹贖愆祭之血的原處。
And the priest shall put of the oil that is in his hand upon the tip of the right ear of him that is to be cleansed, and upon the thumb of his right hand, and upon the great toe of his right foot, upon the place of the blood of the trespass offering:

14:29    祭司手裡所剩的油要抹在那求潔淨人的頭上，在耶和華面前為他贖罪。
And the rest of the oil that is in the priest's hand he shall put upon the head of him that is to be cleansed, to make an atonement for him before the LORD.

14:30    那人又要照他的力量獻上一隻斑鳩或是一隻雛鴿，
And he shall offer the one of the turtledoves, or of the young pigeons, such as he can get;

14:31    就是他所能辦的，一隻為贖罪祭，一隻為燔祭，與素祭一同獻上，祭司要在耶和華面前為他贖罪。
Even such as he is able to get, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, with the meat offering: and the priest shall make an atonement for him that is to be cleansed before the LORD.

14:32    這是那有大麻瘋災病的人，不能將關乎得潔淨之物預備夠數的條例。
This is the law of him in whom is the plague of leprosy, whose hand is not able to get that which pertaineth to his cleansing.

14:33    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

14:34    你們到了我賜給你們為業的迦南地，我若使你們所得為業之地的房屋中有大麻瘋的災病，
When ye be come into the land of Canaan, which I give to you for a possession, and I put the plague of leprosy in a house of the land of your possession;

14:35    房主就要去告訴祭司說，據我看，房屋中似乎有災病。
And he that owneth the house shall come and tell the priest, saying, It seemeth to me there is as it were a plague in the house:

14:36    祭司還沒有進去察看災病以前，就要吩咐人把房子騰空，免得房子裡所有的都成了不潔淨，然後祭司要進去察看房子。
Then the priest shall command that they empty the house, before the priest go into it to see the plague, that all that is in the house be not made unclean: and afterward the priest shall go in to see the house:

14:37    他要察看那災病，災病若在房子的牆上有發綠或發紅的凹斑紋，現象窪於牆，
And he shall look on the plague, and, behold, if the plague be in the walls of the house with hollow strakes, greenish or reddish, which in sight are lower than the wall;

14:38    祭司就要出到房門外，把房子封鎖七天。
Then the priest shall go out of the house to the door of the house, and shut up the house seven days:

14:39    第七天，祭司要再去察看，災病若在房子的牆上發散，
And the priest shall come again the seventh day, and shall look: and, behold, if the plague be spread in the walls of the house;



14:40    就要吩咐人把那有災病的石頭挖出來，扔在城外不潔淨之處。
Then the priest shall command that they take away the stones in which the plague is, and they shall cast them into an unclean place without the city:

14:41    也要叫人刮房內的四圍，所刮掉的灰泥要倒在城外不潔淨之處。
And he shall cause the house to be scraped within round about, and they shall pour out the dust that they scrape off without the city into an unclean place:

14:42    又要用別的石頭代替那挖出來的石頭，要另用灰泥墁房子。
And they shall take other stones, and put them in the place of those stones; and he shall take other morter, and shall plaister the house.

14:43    他挖出石頭，颳了房子，墁了以後，災病若在房子裡又發現，
And if the plague come again, and break out in the house, after that he hath taken away the stones, and after he hath scraped the house, and after it is plaistered;

14:44    祭司就要進去察看，災病若在房子裡發散，這就是房內蠶食的大麻瘋，是不潔淨。
Then the priest shall come and look, and, behold, if the plague be spread in the house, it is a fretting leprosy in the house: it is unclean.

14:45    他就要拆毀房子，把石頭，木頭，灰泥都搬到城外不潔淨之處。
And he shall break down the house, the stones of it, and the timber thereof, and all the morter of the house; and he shall carry them forth out of the city into an unclean place.

14:46    在房子封鎖的時候，進去的人必不潔淨到晚上。
Moreover he that goeth into the house all the while that it is shut up shall be unclean until the even.

14:47    在房子裡躺著的必洗衣服，在房子裡吃飯的也必洗衣服。
And he that lieth in the house shall wash his clothes; and he that eateth in the house shall wash his clothes.

14:48    房子墁了以後，祭司若進去察看，見災病在房內沒有發散，就要定房子為潔淨，因為災病已經消除。
And if the priest shall come in, and look upon it, and, behold, the plague hath not spread in the house, after the house was plaistered: then the priest shall pronounce the house clean, because the plague is healed.

14:49    要為潔淨房子取兩隻鳥和香柏木，硃紅色線並牛膝草，
And he shall take to cleanse the house two birds, and cedar wood, and scarlet, and hyssop:

14:50    用瓦器盛活水，把一隻鳥宰在上面，
And he shall kill the one of the birds in an earthen vessel over running water:

14:51    把香柏木，牛膝草，硃紅色線，並那活鳥，都蘸在被宰的鳥血中與活水中，用以灑房子七次。
And he shall take the cedar wood, and the hyssop, and the scarlet, and the living bird, and dip them in the blood of the slain bird, and in the running water, and sprinkle the house seven times:

14:52    要用鳥血，活水，活鳥，香柏木，牛膝草，並硃紅色線，潔淨那房子。
And he shall cleanse the house with the blood of the bird, and with the running water, and with the living bird, and with the cedar wood, and with the hyssop, and with the scarlet:

14:53    但要把活鳥放在城外田野裡。這樣潔淨房子（原文作為房子贖罪），房子就潔淨了。
But he shall let go the living bird out of the city into the open fields, and make an atonement for the house: and it shall be clean.

14:54    這是為各類大麻瘋的災病和頭疥，
This is the law for all manner of plague of leprosy, and scall,

14:55    並衣服與房子的大麻瘋，
And for the leprosy of a garment, and of a house,

14:56    以及癤子，癬，火斑所立的條例，
And for a rising, and for a scab, and for a bright spot:

14:57    指明何時為潔淨，何時為不潔淨。這是大麻瘋的條例。
To teach when it is unclean, and when it is clean: this is the law of leprosy.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


15:1    耶和華對摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and to Aaron, saying,

15:2    你們曉諭以色列人說，人若身患漏症，他因這漏症就不潔淨了。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When any man hath a running issue out of his flesh, because of his issue he is unclean.

15:3    他患漏症，無論是下流的，是止住的，都是不潔淨。
And this shall be his uncleanness in his issue: whether his flesh run with his issue, or his flesh be stopped from his issue, it is his uncleanness.

15:4    他所躺的床都為不潔淨，所坐的物也為不潔淨。
Every bed, whereon he lieth that hath the issue, is unclean: and every thing, whereon he sitteth, shall be unclean.

15:5    凡摸那床的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And whosoever toucheth his bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:6    那坐患漏症人所坐之物的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And he that sitteth on any thing whereon he sat that hath the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:7    那摸患漏症人身體的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And he that toucheth the flesh of him that hath the issue shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:8    若患漏症人吐在潔淨的人身上，那人必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And if he that hath the issue spit upon him that is clean; then he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:9    患漏症人所騎的鞍子也為不潔淨。
And what saddle soever he rideth upon that hath the issue shall be unclean.

15:10    凡摸了他身下之物的，必不潔淨到晚上，拿了那物的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And whosoever toucheth any thing that was under him shall be unclean until the even: and he that beareth any of those things shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:11    患漏症的人沒有用水涮手，無論摸了誰，誰必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And whomsoever he toucheth that hath the issue, and hath not rinsed his hands in water, he shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:12    患漏症人所摸的瓦器就必打破，所摸的一切木器也必用水涮洗。
And the vessel of earth, that he toucheth which hath the issue, shall be broken: and every vessel of wood shall be rinsed in water.

15:13    患漏症的人痊癒了，就要為潔淨自己計算七天，也必洗衣服，用活水洗身，就潔淨了。
And when he that hath an issue is cleansed of his issue; then he shall number to himself seven days for his cleansing, and wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in running water, and shall be clean.

15:14    第八天，要取兩隻斑鳩或是兩隻雛鴿，來到會幕門口，耶和華面前，把鳥交給祭司。
And on the eighth day he shall take to him two turtledoves, or two young pigeons, and come before the LORD unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and give them unto the priest:

15:15    祭司要獻上一隻為贖罪祭，一隻為燔祭，因那人患的漏症，祭司要在耶和華面前為他贖罪。
And the priest shall offer them, the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for him before the LORD for his issue.

15:16    人若夢遺，他必不潔淨到晚上，並要用水洗全身。
And if any man's seed of copulation go out from him, then he shall wash all his flesh in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:17    無論是衣服是皮子，被精所染，必不潔淨到晚上，並要用水洗。
And every garment, and every skin, whereon is the seed of copulation, shall be washed with water, and be unclean until the even.

15:18    若男女交合，兩個人必不潔淨到晚上，並要用水洗澡。
The woman also with whom man shall lie with seed of copulation, they shall both bathe themselves in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:19    女人行經，必汙穢七天，凡摸她的，必不潔淨到晚上。
And if a woman have an issue, and her issue in her flesh be blood, she shall be put apart seven days: and whosoever toucheth her shall be unclean until the even.

15:20    女人在汙穢之中，凡她所躺的物件都為不潔淨，所坐的物件也都不潔淨。
And every thing that she lieth upon in her separation shall be unclean: every thing also that she sitteth upon shall be unclean.

15:21    凡摸她床的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And whosoever toucheth her bed shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:22    凡摸她所坐什麼物件的，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And whosoever toucheth any thing that she sat upon shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:23    在女人的床上，或在她坐的物上，若有別的物件，人一摸了，必不潔淨到晚上。
And if it be on her bed, or on any thing whereon she sitteth, when he toucheth it, he shall be unclean until the even.

15:24    男人若與那女人同房，染了她的汙穢，就要七天不潔淨，所躺的床也為不潔淨。
And if any man lie with her at all, and her flowers be upon him, he shall be unclean seven days; and all the bed whereon he lieth shall be unclean.

15:25    女人若在經期以外患多日的血漏，或是經期過長，有了漏症，她就因這漏症不潔淨，與她在經期不潔淨一樣。
And if a woman have an issue of her blood many days out of the time of her separation, or if it run beyond the time of her separation; all the days of the issue of her uncleanness shall be as the days of her separation: she shall be unclean.

15:26    她在患漏症的日子所躺的床，所坐的物都要看為不潔淨，與她月經的時候一樣。
Every bed whereon she lieth all the days of her issue shall be unto her as the bed of her separation: and whatsoever she sitteth upon shall be unclean, as the uncleanness of her separation.

15:27    凡摸這些物件的，就為不潔淨，必不潔淨到晚上，並要洗衣服，用水洗澡。
And whosoever toucheth those things shall be unclean, and shall wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even.

15:28    女人的漏症若好了，就要計算七天，然後才為潔淨。
But if she be cleansed of her issue, then she shall number to herself seven days, and after that she shall be clean.

15:29    第八天，要取兩隻斑鳩或是兩隻雛鴿，帶到會幕門口給祭司。
And on the eighth day she shall take unto her two turtles, or two young pigeons, and bring them unto the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

15:30    祭司要獻一隻為贖罪祭，一隻為燔祭，因那人血漏不潔，祭司要在耶和華面前為她贖罪。
And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering; and the priest shall make an atonement for her before the LORD for the issue of her uncleanness.

15:31    你們要這樣使以色列人與他們的汙穢隔絕，免得他們玷汙我的帳幕，就因自己的汙穢死亡。
Thus shall ye separate the children of Israel from their uncleanness; that they die not in their uncleanness, when they defile my tabernacle that is among them.

15:32    這是患漏症和夢遺而不潔淨的，
This is the law of him that hath an issue, and of him whose seed goeth from him, and is defiled therewith;

15:33    並有月經病的和患漏症的，無論男女，並人與不潔淨女人同房的條例。
And of her that is sick of her flowers, and of him that hath an issue, of the man, and of the woman, and of him that lieth with her that is unclean.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


16:1    亞倫的兩個兒子近到耶和華面前死了。死了之後，耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses after the death of the two sons of Aaron, when they offered before the LORD, and died;

16:2    要告訴你哥哥亞倫，不可隨時進聖所的幔子內，到櫃上的施恩座前，免得他死亡，因為我要從雲中顯現在施恩座上。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Speak unto Aaron thy brother, that he come not at all times into the holy place within the vail before the mercy seat, which is upon the ark; that he die not: for I will appear in the cloud upon the mercy seat.

16:3    亞倫進聖所，要帶一隻公牛犢為贖罪祭，一隻公綿羊為燔祭。
Thus shall Aaron come into the holy place: with a young bullock for a sin offering, and a ram for a burnt offering.

16:4    要穿上細麻布聖內袍，把細麻布褲子穿在身上，腰束細麻布帶子，頭戴細麻布冠冕，這都是聖服。他要用水洗身，然後穿戴。
He shall put on the holy linen coat, and he shall have the linen breeches upon his flesh, and shall be girded with a linen girdle, and with the linen mitre shall he be attired: these are holy garments; therefore shall he wash his flesh in water, and so put them on.

16:5    要從以色列會眾取兩隻公山羊為贖罪祭，一隻公綿羊為燔祭。
And he shall take of the congregation of the children of Israel two kids of the goats for a sin offering, and one ram for a burnt offering.

16:6    亞倫要把贖罪祭的公牛奉上，為自己和本家贖罪。
And Aaron shall offer his bullock of the sin offering, which is for himself, and make an atonement for himself, and for his house.

16:7    也要把兩隻公山羊安置在會幕門口，耶和華面前，
And he shall take the two goats, and present them before the LORD at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

16:8    為那兩隻羊拈鬮，一鬮歸與耶和華，一鬮歸與阿撒瀉勒。
And Aaron shall cast lots upon the two goats; one lot for the LORD, and the other lot for the scapegoat.

16:9    亞倫要把那拈鬮歸與耶和華的羊獻為贖罪祭，
And Aaron shall bring the goat upon which the LORD's lot fell, and offer him for a sin offering.

16:10    但那拈鬮歸與阿撒瀉勒的羊要活著安置在耶和華面前，用以贖罪，打發人送到曠野去，歸與阿撒瀉勒。
But the goat, on which the lot fell to be the scapegoat, shall be presented alive before the LORD, to make an atonement with him, and to let him go for a scapegoat into the wilderness.

16:11    亞倫要把贖罪祭的公牛牽來宰了，為自己和本家贖罪。
And Aaron shall bring the bullock of the sin offering, which is for himself, and shall make an atonement for himself, and for his house, and shall kill the bullock of the sin offering which is for himself:

16:12    拿香爐，從耶和華面前的壇上盛滿火炭，又拿一捧搗細的香料，都帶入幔子內，
And he shall take a censer full of burning coals of fire from off the altar before the LORD, and his hands full of sweet incense beaten small, and bring it within the vail:

16:13    在耶和華面前，把香放在火上，使香的煙雲遮掩法櫃上的施恩座，免得他死亡。
And he shall put the incense upon the fire before the LORD, that the cloud of the incense may cover the mercy seat that is upon the testimony, that he die not:

16:14    也要取些公牛的血，用指頭彈在施恩座的東面，又在施恩座的前面彈血七次。
And he shall take of the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it with his finger upon the mercy seat eastward; and before the mercy seat shall he sprinkle of the blood with his finger seven times.

16:15    隨後他要宰那為百姓作贖罪祭的公山羊，把羊的血帶入幔子內，彈在施恩座的上面和前面，好像彈公牛的血一樣。
Then shall he kill the goat of the sin offering, that is for the people, and bring his blood within the vail, and do with that blood as he did with the blood of the bullock, and sprinkle it upon the mercy seat, and before the mercy seat:

16:16    他因以色列人諸般的汙穢，過犯，就是他們一切的罪愆，當這樣在聖所行贖罪之禮，並因會幕在他們汙穢之中，也要照樣而行。
And he shall make an atonement for the holy place, because of the uncleanness of the children of Israel, and because of their transgressions in all their sins: and so shall he do for the tabernacle of the congregation, that remaineth among them in the midst of their uncleanness.

16:17    他進聖所贖罪的時候，會幕裡不可有人，直等到他為自己和本家並以色列全會眾贖了罪出來。
And there shall be no man in the tabernacle of the congregation when he goeth in to make an atonement in the holy place, until he come out, and have made an atonement for himself, and for his household, and for all the congregation of Israel.

16:18    他出來，要到耶和華面前的壇那裡，在壇上行贖罪之禮，又要取些公牛的血和公山羊的血，抹在壇上四角的周圍。
And he shall go out unto the altar that is before the LORD, and make an atonement for it; and shall take of the blood of the bullock, and of the blood of the goat, and put it upon the horns of the altar round about.

16:19    也要用指頭把血彈在壇上七次，潔淨了壇，從壇上除掉以色列人諸般的汙穢，使壇成聖。
And he shall sprinkle of the blood upon it with his finger seven times, and cleanse it, and hallow it from the uncleanness of the children of Israel.

16:20    亞倫為聖所和會幕並壇獻完了贖罪祭，就要把那隻活著的公山羊奉上。
And when he hath made an end of reconciling the holy place, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and the altar, he shall bring the live goat:

16:21    兩手按在羊頭上，承認以色列人諸般的罪孽過犯，就是他們一切的罪愆，把這罪都歸在羊的頭上，藉著所派之人的手，送到曠野去。
And Aaron shall lay both his hands upon the head of the live goat, and confess over him all the iniquities of the children of Israel, and all their transgressions in all their sins, putting them upon the head of the goat, and shall send him away by the hand of a fit man into the wilderness:

16:22    要把這羊放在曠野，這羊要擔當他們一切的罪孽，帶到無人之地。
And the goat shall bear upon him all their iniquities unto a land not inhabited: and he shall let go the goat in the wilderness.

16:23    亞倫要進會幕，把他進聖所時所穿的細麻布衣服脫下，放在那裡，
And Aaron shall come into the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall put off the linen garments, which he put on when he went into the holy place, and shall leave them there:

16:24    又要在聖處用水洗身，穿上衣服，出來，把自己的燔祭和百姓的燔祭獻上，為自己和百姓贖罪。
And he shall wash his flesh with water in the holy place, and put on his garments, and come forth, and offer his burnt offering, and the burnt offering of the people, and make an atonement for himself, and for the people.

16:25    贖罪祭牲的脂油要在壇上焚燒。
And the fat of the sin offering shall he burn upon the altar.

16:26    那放羊歸與阿撒瀉勒的人要洗衣服，用水洗身，然後進營。
And he that let go the goat for the scapegoat shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward come into the camp.

16:27    作贖罪祭的公牛和公山羊的血既帶入聖所贖罪，這牛羊就要搬到營外，將皮，肉，糞用火焚燒。
And the bullock for the sin offering, and the goat for the sin offering, whose blood was brought in to make atonement in the holy place, shall one carry forth without the camp; and they shall burn in the fire their skins, and their flesh, and their dung.

16:28    焚燒的人要洗衣服，用水洗身，然後進營。
And he that burneth them shall wash his clothes, and bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp.

16:29    每逢七月初十日，你們要刻苦己心，無論是本地人，是寄居在你們中間的外人，什麼工都不可作，這要作你們永遠的定例。
And this shall be a statute for ever unto you: that in the seventh month, on the tenth day of the month, ye shall afflict your souls, and do no work at all, whether it be one of your own country, or a stranger that sojourneth among you:

16:30    因在這日要為你們贖罪，使你們潔淨。你們要在耶和華面前得以潔淨，脫盡一切的罪愆。
For on that day shall the priest make an atonement for you, to cleanse you, that ye may be clean from all your sins before the LORD.

16:31    這日你們要守為聖安息日，要刻苦己心，這為永遠的定例。
It shall be a sabbath of rest unto you, and ye shall afflict your souls, by a statute for ever.

16:32    那受膏，接續他父親承接聖職的祭司要穿上細麻布的聖衣，行贖罪之禮。
And the priest, whom he shall anoint, and whom he shall consecrate to minister in the priest's office in his father's stead, shall make the atonement, and shall put on the linen clothes, even the holy garments:

16:33    他要在至聖所和會幕與壇行贖罪之禮，並要為眾祭司和會眾的百姓贖罪。
And he shall make an atonement for the holy sanctuary, and he shall make an atonement for the tabernacle of the congregation, and for the altar, and he shall make an atonement for the priests, and for all the people of the congregation.

16:34    這要作你們永遠的定例就是因以色列人一切的罪，要一年一次為他們贖罪。於是，亞倫照耶和華所吩咐摩西的行了。
And this shall be an everlasting statute unto you, to make an atonement for the children of Israel for all their sins once a year. And he did as the LORD commanded Moses.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


17:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

17:2    你曉諭亞倫和他兒子並以色列眾人說，耶和華所吩咐的乃是這樣，
Speak unto Aaron, and unto his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them; This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded, saying,

17:3    凡以色列家中的人宰公牛，或是綿羊羔，或是山羊，不拘宰於營內營外，
What man soever there be of the house of Israel, that killeth an ox, or lamb, or goat, in the camp, or that killeth it out of the camp,

17:4    若未曾牽到會幕門口，耶和華的帳幕前獻給耶和華為供物，流血的罪必歸到那人身上。他流了血，要從民中剪除。
And bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer an offering unto the LORD before the tabernacle of the LORD; blood shall be imputed unto that man; he hath shed blood; and that man shall be cut off from among his people:

17:5    這是為要使以色列人把他們在田野裡所獻的祭帶到會幕門口，耶和華面前，交給祭司，獻與耶和華為平安祭。
To the end that the children of Israel may bring their sacrifices, which they offer in the open field, even that they may bring them unto the LORD, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, unto the priest, and offer them for peace offerings unto the LORD.

17:6    祭司要把血灑在會幕門口，耶和華的壇上，把脂油焚燒，獻給耶和華為馨香的祭。
And the priest shall sprinkle the blood upon the altar of the LORD at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and burn the fat for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

17:7    他們不可再獻祭給他們行邪淫所隨從的鬼魔（原文是公山羊），這要作他們世世代代永遠的定例。
And they shall no more offer their sacrifices unto devils, after whom they have gone a whoring. This shall be a statute for ever unto them throughout their generations.

17:8    你要曉諭他們說，凡以色列家中的人，或是寄居在他們中間的外人，獻燔祭或是平安祭，
And thou shalt say unto them, Whatsoever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers which sojourn among you, that offereth a burnt offering or sacrifice,

17:9    若不帶到會幕門口獻給耶和華，那人必從民中剪除。
And bringeth it not unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, to offer it unto the LORD; even that man shall be cut off from among his people.

17:10    凡以色列家中的人，或是寄居在他們中間的外人，若吃什麼血，我必向那吃血的人變臉，把他從民中剪除。
And whatsoever man there be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among you, that eateth any manner of blood; I will even set my face against that soul that eateth blood, and will cut him off from among his people.

17:11    因為活物的生命是在血中。我把這血賜給你們，可以在壇上為你們的生命贖罪，因血裡有生命，所以能贖罪。
For the life of the flesh is in the blood: and I have given it to you upon the altar to make an atonement for your souls: for it is the blood that maketh an atonement for the soul.

17:12    因此，我對以色列人說，你們都不可吃血，寄居在你們中間的外人也不可吃血。
Therefore I said unto the children of Israel, No soul of you shall eat blood, neither shall any stranger that sojourneth among you eat blood.

17:13    凡以色列人，或是寄居在他們中間的外人，若打獵得了可吃的禽獸，必放出它的血來，用土掩蓋。
And whatsoever man there be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn among you, which hunteth and catcheth any beast or fowl that may be eaten; he shall even pour out the blood thereof, and cover it with dust.

17:14    論到一切活物的生命，就在血中。所以我對以色列人說，無論什麼活物的血，你們都不可吃，因為一切活物的血就是他的生命。凡吃了血的，必被剪除。
For it is the life of all flesh; the blood of it is for the life thereof: therefore I said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall eat the blood of no manner of flesh: for the life of all flesh is the blood thereof: whosoever eateth it shall be cut off.

17:15    凡吃自死的，或是被野獸撕裂的，無論是本地人，是寄居的，必不潔淨到晚上，都要洗衣服，用水洗身，到了晚上才為潔淨。
And every soul that eateth that which died of itself, or that which was torn with beasts, whether it be one of your own country, or a stranger, he shall both wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and be unclean until the even: then shall he be clean.

17:16    但他若不洗衣服，也不洗身，就必擔當他的罪孽。
But if he wash them not, nor bathe his flesh; then he shall bear his iniquity.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


18:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

18:2    你曉諭以色列人說，我是耶和華你們的神。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, I am the LORD your God.

18:3    你們從前住的埃及地，那裡人的行為，你們不可效法，我要領你們到的迦南地，那裡人的行為也不可效法，也不可照他們的惡俗行。
After the doings of the land of Egypt, wherein ye dwelt, shall ye not do: and after the doings of the land of Canaan, whither I bring you, shall ye not do: neither shall ye walk in their ordinances.

18:4    你們要遵我的典章，守我的律例，按此而行。我是耶和華你們的神。
Ye shall do my judgments, and keep mine ordinances, to walk therein: I am the LORD your God.

18:5    所以，你們要守我的律例典章，人若遵行，就必因此活著。我是耶和華。
Ye shall therefore keep my statutes, and my judgments: which if a man do, he shall live in them: I am the LORD.

18:6    你們都不可露骨肉之親的下體，親近他們。我是耶和華。
None of you shall approach to any that is near of kin to him, to uncover their nakedness: I am the LORD.

18:7    不可露你母親的下體，羞辱了你父親。她是你的母親，不可露她的下體。
The nakedness of thy father, or the nakedness of thy mother, shalt thou not uncover: she is thy mother; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:8    不可露你繼母的下體，這本是你父親的下體。
The nakedness of thy father's wife shalt thou not uncover: it is thy father's nakedness.

18:9    你的姊妹，不拘是異母同父的，是異父同母的，無論是生在家生在外的，都不可露她們的下體。
The nakedness of thy sister, the daughter of thy father, or daughter of thy mother, whether she be born at home, or born abroad, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover.

18:10    不可露你孫女或是外孫女的下體，露了她們的下體就是露了自己的下體。
The nakedness of thy son's daughter, or of thy daughter's daughter, even their nakedness thou shalt not uncover: for theirs is thine own nakedness.

18:11    你繼母從你父親生的女兒本是你的妹妹，不可露她的下體。
The nakedness of thy father's wife's daughter, begotten of thy father, she is thy sister, thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:12    不可露你姑母的下體，她是你父親的骨肉之親。
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's sister: she is thy father's near kinswoman.

18:13    不可露你姨母的下體，她是你母親的骨肉之親。
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister: for she is thy mother's near kinswoman.

18:14    不可親近你伯叔之妻，羞辱了你伯叔，她是你的伯叔母。
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy father's brother, thou shalt not approach to his wife: she is thine aunt.

18:15    不可露你兒婦的下體，她是你兒子的妻，不可露她的下體。
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy daughter in law: she is thy son's wife; thou shalt not uncover her nakedness.

18:16    不可露你弟兄妻子的下體，這本是你弟兄的下體。
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy brother's wife: it is thy brother's nakedness.

18:17    不可露了婦人的下體，又露她女兒的下體，也不可娶她孫女或是外孫女，露她們的下體，她們是骨肉之親，這本是大惡。
Thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of a woman and her daughter, neither shalt thou take her son's daughter, or her daughter's daughter, to uncover her nakedness; for they are her near kinswomen: it is wickedness.

18:18    你妻還在的時候，不可另娶她的姊妹作對頭，露她的下體。
Neither shalt thou take a wife to her sister, to vex her, to uncover her nakedness, beside the other in her life time.



18:19    女人行經不潔淨的時候，不可露她的下體，與她親近。
Also thou shalt not approach unto a woman to uncover her nakedness, as long as she is put apart for her uncleanness.

18:20    不可與鄰舍的妻行淫，玷汙自己。
Moreover thou shalt not lie carnally with thy neighbour's wife, to defile thyself with her.

18:21    不可使你的兒女經火歸與摩洛，也不可褻瀆你神的名。我是耶和華。
And thou shalt not let any of thy seed pass through the fire to Molech, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.

18:22    不可與男人苟合，像與女人一樣，這本是可憎惡的。
Thou shalt not lie with mankind, as with womankind: it is abomination.

18:23    不可與獸淫合，玷汙自己。女人也不可站在獸前，與它淫合，這本是逆性的事。
Neither shalt thou lie with any beast to defile thyself therewith: neither shall any woman stand before a beast to lie down thereto: it is confusion.

18:24    在這一切的事上，你們都不可玷汙自己，因為我在你們面前所逐出的列邦，在這一切的事上玷汙了自己。
Defile not ye yourselves in any of these things: for in all these the nations are defiled which I cast out before you:

18:25    連地也玷汙了，所以我追討那地的罪孽，那地也吐出它的居民。
And the land is defiled: therefore I do visit the iniquity thereof upon it, and the land itself vomiteth out her inhabitants.

18:26    故此，你們要守我的律例典章。這一切可憎惡的事，無論是本地人，是寄居在你們中間的外人，都不可行，
Ye shall therefore keep my statutes and my judgments, and shall not commit any of these abominations; neither any of your own nation, nor any stranger that sojourneth among you:

18:27    （在你們以先居住那地的人行了這一切可憎惡的事，地就玷汙了，）
(For all these abominations have the men of the land done, which were before you, and the land is defiled;)

18:28    免得你們玷汙那地的時候，地就把你們吐出，像吐出在你們以先的國民一樣。
That the land spue not you out also, when ye defile it, as it spued out the nations that were before you.

18:29    無論什麼人，行了其中可憎的一件事，必從民中剪除。
For whosoever shall commit any of these abominations, even the souls that commit them shall be cut off from among their people.

18:30    所以，你們要守我所吩咐的，免得你們隨從那些可憎的惡俗，就是在你們以先的人所常行的，以致玷汙了自己。我是耶和華你們的神。
Therefore shall ye keep mine ordinance, that ye commit not any one of these abominable customs, which were committed before you, and that ye defile not yourselves therein: I am the LORD your God.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


19:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,



19:2    你曉諭以色列全會眾說，你們要聖潔，因為我耶和華你們的神是聖潔的。
Speak unto all the congregation of the children of Israel, and say unto them, Ye shall be holy: for I the LORD your God am holy.

19:3    你們各人都當孝敬父母，也要守我的安息日。我是耶和華你們的神。
Ye shall fear every man his mother, and his father, and keep my sabbaths: I am the LORD your God.

19:4    你們不可偏向虛無的神，也不可為自己鑄造神像。我是耶和華你們的神。
Turn ye not unto idols, nor make to yourselves molten gods: I am the LORD your God.

19:5    你們獻平安祭給耶和華的時候，要獻得可蒙悅納。
And if ye offer a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, ye shall offer it at your own will.

19:6    這祭物要在獻的那一天和第二天吃，若有剩到第三天的，就必用火焚燒。
It shall be eaten the same day ye offer it, and on the morrow: and if ought remain until the third day, it shall be burnt in the fire.

19:7    第三天若再吃，這就為可憎惡的，必不蒙悅納。
And if it be eaten at all on the third day, it is abominable; it shall not be accepted.

19:8    凡吃的人必擔當他的罪孽，因為他褻瀆了耶和華的聖物，那人必從民中剪除。
Therefore every one that eateth it shall bear his iniquity, because he hath profaned the hallowed thing of the LORD: and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

19:9    在你們的地收割莊稼，不可割盡田角，也不可拾取所遺落的。
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not wholly reap the corners of thy field, neither shalt thou gather the gleanings of thy harvest.

19:10    不可摘盡葡萄園的果子，也不可拾取葡萄園所掉的果子，要留給窮人和寄居的。我是耶和華你們的神。
And thou shalt not glean thy vineyard, neither shalt thou gather every grape of thy vineyard; thou shalt leave them for the poor and stranger: I am the LORD your God.

19:11    你們不可偷盜，不可欺騙，也不可彼此說謊。
Ye shall not steal, neither deal falsely, neither lie one to another.

19:12    不可指著我的名起假誓，褻瀆你神的名。我是耶和華。
And ye shall not swear by my name falsely, neither shalt thou profane the name of thy God: I am the LORD.

19:13    不可欺壓你的鄰舍，也不可搶奪他的物。僱工人的工價，不可在你那裡過夜，留到早晨。
Thou shalt not defraud thy neighbour, neither rob him: the wages of him that is hired shall not abide with thee all night until the morning.

19:14    不可咒罵聾子，也不可將絆腳石放在瞎子面前，只要敬畏你的神。我是耶和華。
Thou shalt not curse the deaf, nor put a stumblingblock before the blind, but shalt fear thy God: I am the LORD.

19:15    你們施行審判，不可行不義，不可偏護窮人，也不可重看有勢力的人，只要按著公義審判你的鄰舍。
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment: thou shalt not respect the person of the poor, nor honor the person of the mighty: but in righteousness shalt thou judge thy neighbour.

19:16    不可在民中往來搬弄是非，也不可與鄰舍為敵，置之於死（原文作流他的血）。我是耶和華。
Thou shalt not go up and down as a talebearer among thy people: neither shalt thou stand against the blood of thy neighbour: I am the LORD.

19:17    不可心裡恨你的弟兄，總要指摘你的鄰舍，免得因他擔罪。
Thou shalt not hate thy brother in thine heart: thou shalt in any wise rebuke thy neighbour, and not suffer sin upon him.

19:18    不可報仇，也不可埋怨你本國的子民，卻要愛人如己。我是耶和華。
Thou shalt not avenge, nor bear any grudge against the children of thy people, but thou shalt love thy neighbour as thyself: I am the LORD.

19:19    你們要守我的律例。不可叫你的牲畜與異類配合，不可用兩樣攙雜的種種你的地，也不可用兩樣攙雜的料作衣服穿在身上。
Ye shall keep my statutes. Thou shalt not let thy cattle gender with a diverse kind: thou shalt not sow thy field with mingled seed: neither shall a garment mingled of linen and woollen come upon thee.

19:20    婢女許配了丈夫，還沒有被贖得釋放，人若與她行淫，二人要受刑罰，卻不把他們治死，因為婢女還沒有得自由。
And whosoever lieth carnally with a woman, that is a bondmaid, betrothed to an husband, and not at all redeemed, nor freedom given her; she shall be scourged; they shall not be put to death, because she was not free.

19:21    那人要把贖愆祭，就是一隻公綿羊牽到會幕門口，耶和華面前。
And he shall bring his trespass offering unto the LORD, unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, even a ram for a trespass offering.

19:22    祭司要用贖愆祭的羊在耶和華面前贖他所犯的罪，他的罪就必蒙赦免。
And the priest shall make an atonement for him with the ram of the trespass offering before the LORD for his sin which he hath done: and the sin which he hath done shall be forgiven him.

19:23    你們到了迦南地，栽種各樣結果子的樹木，就要以所結的果子如未受割禮的一樣。三年之久，你們要以這些果子，如未受割禮的，是不可吃的。
And when ye shall come into the land, and shall have planted all manner of trees for food, then ye shall count the fruit thereof as uncircumcised: three years shall it be as uncircumcised unto you: it shall not be eaten of.

19:24    但第四年所結的果子全要成為聖，用以讚美耶和華。
But in the fourth year all the fruit thereof shall be holy to praise the LORD withal.

19:25    第五年，你們要吃那樹上的果子，好叫樹給你們結果子更多。我是耶和華你們的神。
And in the fifth year shall ye eat of the fruit thereof, that it may yield unto you the increase thereof: I am the LORD your God.

19:26    你們不可吃帶血的物，不可用法術，也不可觀兆。
Ye shall not eat any thing with the blood: neither shall ye use enchantment, nor observe times.

19:27    頭的周圍（周圍或作兩鬢）不可剃，鬍鬚的周圍也不可損壞。
Ye shall not round the corners of your heads, neither shalt thou mar the corners of thy beard.

19:28    不可為死人用刀劃身，也不可在身上刺花紋。我是耶和華。
Ye shall not make any cuttings in your flesh for the dead, nor print any marks upon you: I am the LORD.

19:29    不可辱沒你的女兒，使她為娼妓，恐怕地上的人專向淫亂，地就滿了大惡。
Do not prostitute thy daughter, to cause her to be a whore; lest the land fall to whoredom, and the land become full of wickedness.

19:30    你們要守我的安息日，敬我的聖所。我是耶和華。
Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.

19:31    不可偏向那些交鬼的和行巫術的，不可求問他們，以致被他們玷汙了。我是耶和華你們的神。
Regard not them that have familiar spirits, neither seek after wizards, to be defiled by them: I am the LORD your God.



19:32    在白髮的人面前，你要站起來，也要尊敬老人，又要敬畏你的神。我是耶和華。
Thou shalt rise up before the hoary head, and honour the face of the old man, and fear thy God: I am the LORD.

19:33    若有外人在你們國中和你同居，就不可欺負他。
And if a stranger sojourn with thee in your land, ye shall not vex him.

19:34    和你們同居的外人，你們要看他如本地人一樣，並要愛他如己，因為你們在埃及地也作過寄居的。我是耶和華你們的神。
But the stranger that dwelleth with you shall be unto you as one born among you, and thou shalt love him as thyself; for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

19:35    你們施行審判，不可行不義，在尺，秤，升，鬥上也是如此。
Ye shall do no unrighteousness in judgment, in meteyard, in weight, or in measure.

19:36    要用公道天平，公道法碼，公道升斗，公道秤。我是耶和華你們的神，曾把你們從埃及地領出來的。
Just balances, just weights, a just ephah, and a just hin, shall ye have: I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt.

19:37    你們要謹守遵行我一切的律例典章。我是耶和華。
Therefore shall ye observe all my statutes, and all my judgments, and do them: I am the LORD.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


20:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

20:2    你還要曉諭以色列人說，凡以色列人，或是在以色列中寄居的外人，把自己的兒女獻給摩洛的，總要治死他，本地人要用石頭把他打死。
Again, thou shalt say to the children of Israel, Whosoever he be of the children of Israel, or of the strangers that sojourn in Israel, that giveth any of his seed unto Molech; he shall surely be put to death: the people of the land shall stone him with stones.

20:3    我也要向那人變臉，把他從民中剪除，因為他把兒女獻給摩洛，玷汙我的聖所，褻瀆我的聖名。
And I will set my face against that man, and will cut him off from among his people; because he hath given of his seed unto Molech, to defile my sanctuary, and to profane my holy name.

20:4    那人把兒女獻給摩洛，本地人若佯為不見，不把他治死，
And if the people of the land do any ways hide their eyes from the man, when he giveth of his seed unto Molech, and kill him not:

20:5    我就要向這人和他的家變臉，把他和一切隨他與摩洛行邪淫的人都從民中剪除。
Then I will set my face against that man, and against his family, and will cut him off, and all that go a whoring after him, to commit whoredom with Molech, from among their people.

20:6    人偏向交鬼的和行巫術的，隨他們行邪淫，我要向那人變臉，把他從民中剪除。
And the soul that turneth after such as have familiar spirits, and after wizards, to go a whoring after them, I will even set my face against that soul, and will cut him off from among his people.

20:7    所以你們要自潔成聖，因為我是耶和華你們的神。
Sanctify yourselves therefore, and be ye holy: for I am the LORD your God.

20:8    你們要謹守遵行我的律例，我是叫你們成聖的耶和華。
And ye shall keep my statutes, and do them: I am the LORD which sanctify you.

20:9    凡咒罵父母的，總要治死他，他咒罵了父母，他的罪（罪原文作血，本章同）要歸到他身上。
For every one that curseth his father or his mother shall be surely put to death: he hath cursed his father or his mother; his blood shall be upon him.

20:10    與鄰舍之妻行淫的，姦夫淫婦都必治死。
And the man that committeth adultery with another man's wife, even he that committeth adultery with his neighbour's wife, the adulterer and the adulteress shall surely be put to death.

20:11    與繼母行淫的，就是羞辱了他父親，總要把他們二人治死，罪要歸到他們身上。
And the man that lieth with his father's wife hath uncovered his father's nakedness: both of them shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.

20:12    與兒婦同房的，總要把他們二人治死，他們行了逆倫的事，罪要歸到他們身上。
And if a man lie with his daughter in law, both of them shall surely be put to death: they have wrought confusion; their blood shall be upon them.

20:13    人若與男人苟合，像與女人一樣，他們二人行了可憎的事，總要把他們治死，罪要歸到他們身上。
If a man also lie with mankind, as he lieth with a woman, both of them have committed an abomination: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.

20:14    人若娶妻，並娶其母，便是大惡，要把這三人用火焚燒，使你們中間免去大惡。
And if a man take a wife and her mother, it is wickedness: they shall be burnt with fire, both he and they; that there be no wickedness among you.

20:15    人若與獸淫合，總要治死他，也要殺那獸。
And if a man lie with a beast, he shall surely be put to death: and ye shall slay the beast.

20:16    女人若與獸親近，與它淫合，你要殺那女人和那獸，總要把他們治死，罪要歸到他們身上。
And if a woman approach unto any beast, and lie down thereto, thou shalt kill the woman, and the beast: they shall surely be put to death; their blood shall be upon them.

20:17    人若娶他的姊妹，無論是異母同父的，是異父同母的，彼此見了下體，這是可恥的事，他們必在本民的眼前被剪除。他露了姊妹的下體，必擔當自己的罪孽。
And if a man shall take his sister, his father's daughter, or his mother's daughter, and see her nakedness, and she see his nakedness; it is a wicked thing; and they shall be cut off in the sight of their people: he hath uncovered his sister's nakedness; he shall bear his iniquity.



20:18    婦人有月經，若與她同房，露了她的下體，就是露了婦人的血源，婦人也露了自己的血源，二人必從民中剪除。
And if a man shall lie with a woman having her sickness, and shall uncover her nakedness; he hath discovered her fountain, and she hath uncovered the fountain of her blood: and both of them shall be cut off from among their people.

20:19    不可露姨母或是姑母的下體，這是露了骨肉之親的下體，二人必擔當自己的罪孽。
And thou shalt not uncover the nakedness of thy mother's sister, nor of thy father's sister: for he uncovereth his near kin: they shall bear their iniquity.

20:20    人若與伯叔之妻同房，就羞辱了他的伯叔，二人要擔當自己的罪，必無子女而死。
And if a man shall lie with his uncle's wife, he hath uncovered his uncle's nakedness: they shall bear their sin; they shall die childless.

20:21    人若娶弟兄之妻，這本是汙穢的事，羞辱了他的弟兄，二人必無子女。
And if a man shall take his brother's wife, it is an unclean thing: he hath uncovered his brother's nakedness; they shall be childless.

20:22    所以，你們要謹守遵行我一切的律例典章，免得我領你們去住的那地把你們吐出。
Ye shall therefore keep all my statutes, and all my judgments, and do them: that the land, whither I bring you to dwell therein, spue you not out.

20:23    我在你們面前所逐出的國民，你們不可隨從他們的風俗，因為他們行了這一切的事，所以我厭惡他們。
And ye shall not walk in the manners of the nation, which I cast out before you: for they committed all these things, and therefore I abhorred them.

20:24    但我對你們說過，你們要承受他們的地，就是我要賜給你們為業，流奶與蜜之地。我是耶和華你們的神，使你們與萬民有分別的。
But I have said unto you, Ye shall inherit their land, and I will give it unto you to possess it, a land that floweth with milk and honey: I am the LORD your God, which have separated you from other people.

20:25    所以，你們要把潔淨和不潔淨的禽獸分別出來，不可因我給你們分為不潔淨的禽獸，或是滋生在地上的活物，使自己成為可憎惡的。
Ye shall therefore put difference between clean beasts and unclean, and between unclean fowls and clean: and ye shall not make your souls abominable by beast, or by fowl, or by any manner of living thing that creepeth on the ground, which I have separated from you as unclean.

20:26    你們要歸我為聖，因為我耶和華是聖的，並叫你們與萬民有分別，使你們作我的民。
And ye shall be holy unto me: for I the LORD am holy, and have severed you from other people, that ye should be mine.

20:27    無論男女，是交鬼的或行巫術的，總要治死他們。人必用石頭把他們打死，罪要歸到他們身上。
A man also or woman that hath a familiar spirit, or that is a wizard, shall surely be put to death: they shall stone them with stones: their blood shall be upon them.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


21:1    耶和華對摩西說，你告訴亞倫子孫作祭司的說，祭司不可為民中的死人沾染自己，
And the LORD said unto Moses, Speak unto the priests the sons of Aaron, and say unto them, There shall none be defiled for the dead among his people:

21:2    除非為他骨肉之親的父母，兒女，弟兄，
But for his kin, that is near unto him, that is, for his mother, and for his father, and for his son, and for his daughter, and for his brother,

21:3    和未曾出嫁，作處女的姊妹，才可以沾染自己。
And for his sister a virgin, that is nigh unto him, which hath had no husband; for her may he be defiled.

21:4    祭司既在民中為首，就不可從俗沾染自己。
But he shall not defile himself, being a chief man among his people, to profane himself.

21:5    不可使頭光禿，不可剃除鬍鬚的周圍，也不可用刀劃身。
They shall not make baldness upon their head, neither shall they shave off the corner of their beard, nor make any cuttings in their flesh.

21:6    要歸神為聖，不可褻瀆神的名，因為耶和華的火祭，就是神的食物，是他們獻的，所以他們要成為聖。
They shall be holy unto their God, and not profane the name of their God: for the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and the bread of their God, they do offer: therefore they shall be holy.

21:7    不可娶妓女或被汙的女人為妻，也不可娶被休的婦人為妻，因為祭司是歸神為聖。
They shall not take a wife that is a whore, or profane; neither shall they take a woman put away from her husband: for he is holy unto his God.

21:8    所以你要使他成聖，因為他奉獻你神的食物，你要以他為聖，因為我使你們成聖的耶和華是聖的。
Thou shalt sanctify him therefore; for he offereth the bread of thy God: he shall be holy unto thee: for I the LORD, which sanctify you, am holy.

21:9    祭司的女兒若行淫辱沒自己，就辱沒了父親，必用火將她焚燒。
And the daughter of any priest, if she profane herself by playing the whore, she profaneth her father: she shall be burnt with fire.



21:10    在弟兄中作大祭司，頭上倒了膏油，又承接聖職，穿了聖衣的，不可蓬頭散發，也不可撕裂衣服。
And he that is the high priest among his brethren, upon whose head the anointing oil was poured, and that is consecrated to put on the garments, shall not uncover his head, nor rend his clothes;

21:11    不可挨近死屍，也不可為父母沾染自己。
Neither shall he go in to any dead body, nor defile himself for his father, or for his mother;

21:12    不可出聖所，也不可褻瀆神的聖所，因為神膏油的冠冕在他頭上。我是耶和華。
Neither shall he go out of the sanctuary, nor profane the sanctuary of his God; for the crown of the anointing oil of his God is upon him: I am the LORD.

21:13    他要娶處女為妻。
And he shall take a wife in her virginity.

21:14    寡婦或是被休的婦人，或是被汙為妓的女人，都不可娶，只可娶本民中的處女為妻。
A widow, or a divorced woman, or profane, or an harlot, these shall he not take: but he shall take a virgin of his own people to wife.

21:15    不可在民中辱沒他的兒女，因為我是叫他成聖的耶和華。
Neither shall he profane his seed among his people: for I the LORD do sanctify him.

21:16    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,



21:17    你告訴亞倫說，你世世代代的後裔，凡有殘疾的，都不可近前來獻他神的食物。
Speak unto Aaron, saying, Whosoever he be of thy seed in their generations that hath any blemish, let him not approach to offer the bread of his God.

21:18    因為凡有殘疾的，無論是瞎眼的，瘸腿的，塌鼻子的，肢體有餘的，
For whatsoever man he be that hath a blemish, he shall not approach: a blind man, or a lame, or he that hath a flat nose, or any thing superfluous,

21:19    折腳折手的，
Or a man that is brokenfooted, or brokenhanded,

21:20    駝背的，矮矬的，眼睛有毛病的，長癬的，長疥的，或是損壞腎子的，都不可近前來。
Or crookbackt, or a dwarf, or that hath a blemish in his eye, or be scurvy, or scabbed, or hath his stones broken;

21:21    祭司亞倫的後裔，凡有殘疾的，都不可近前來，將火祭獻給耶和華。他有殘疾，不可近前來獻神的食物。
No man that hath a blemish of the seed of Aaron the priest shall come nigh to offer the offerings of the LORD made by fire: he hath a blemish; he shall not come nigh to offer the bread of his God.

21:22    神的食物，無論是聖的，至聖的，他都可以吃。
He shall eat the bread of his God, both of the most holy, and of the holy.

21:23    但不可進到幔子前，也不可就近壇前，因為他有殘疾，免得褻瀆我的聖所。我是叫他成聖的耶和華。
Only he shall not go in unto the vail, nor come nigh unto the altar, because he hath a blemish; that he profane not my sanctuaries: for I the LORD do sanctify them.

21:24    於是，摩西曉諭亞倫和亞倫的子孫，並以色列眾人。
And Moses told it unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


22:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

22:2    你吩咐亞倫和他子孫說，要遠離以色列人所分別為聖，歸給我的聖物，免得褻瀆我的聖名。我是耶和華。
Speak unto Aaron and to his sons, that they separate themselves from the holy things of the children of Israel, and that they profane not my holy name in those things which they hallow unto me: I am the LORD.

22:3    你要對他們說，你們世世代代的後裔，凡身上有汙穢，親近以色列人所分別為聖，歸耶和華聖物的，那人必在我面前剪除。我是耶和華。
Say unto them, Whosoever he be of all your seed among your generations, that goeth unto the holy things, which the children of Israel hallow unto the LORD, having his uncleanness upon him, that soul shall be cut off from my presence: I am the LORD.

22:4    亞倫的後裔，凡長大麻瘋的，或是有漏症的，不可吃聖物，直等他潔淨了。無論誰摸那因死屍不潔淨的物（物或作人），或是遺精的人，
What man soever of the seed of Aaron is a leper, or hath a running issue; he shall not eat of the holy things, until he be clean. And whoso toucheth any thing that is unclean by the dead, or a man whose seed goeth from him;

22:5    或是摸什麼使他不潔淨的爬物，或是摸那使他不潔淨的人（不拘那人有什麼不潔淨），
Or whosoever toucheth any creeping thing, whereby he may be made unclean, or a man of whom he may take uncleanness, whatsoever uncleanness he hath;

22:6    摸了這些人，物的，必不潔淨到晚上，若不用水洗身，就不可吃聖物。
The soul which hath touched any such shall be unclean until even, and shall not eat of the holy things, unless he wash his flesh with water.

22:7    日落的時候，他就潔淨了，然後可以吃聖物，因為這是他的食物。
And when the sun is down, he shall be clean, and shall afterward eat of the holy things; because it is his food.

22:8    自死的或是被野獸撕裂的，他不可吃，因此汙穢自己。我是耶和華。
That which dieth of itself, or is torn with beasts, he shall not eat to defile himself therewith: I am the LORD.

22:9    所以他們要守我所吩咐的，免得輕忽了，因此擔罪而死。我是叫他們成聖的耶和華。
They shall therefore keep mine ordinance, lest they bear sin for it, and die therefore, if they profane it: I the LORD do sanctify them.

22:10    凡外人不可吃聖物，寄居在祭司家的，或是僱工人，都不可吃聖物。
There shall no stranger eat of the holy thing: a sojourner of the priest, or an hired servant, shall not eat of the holy thing.

22:11    倘若祭司買人，是他的錢買的，那人就可以吃聖物，生在他家的人也可以吃。
But if the priest buy any soul with his money, he shall eat of it, and he that is born in his house: they shall eat of his meat.

22:12    祭司的女兒若嫁外人，就不可吃舉祭的聖物。
If the priest's daughter also be married unto a stranger, she may not eat of an offering of the holy things.

22:13    但祭司的女兒若是寡婦，或是被休的，沒有孩子，又歸回父家，與她青年一樣，就可以吃她父親的食物，只是外人不可吃。
But if the priest's daughter be a widow, or divorced, and have no child, and is returned unto her father's house, as in her youth, she shall eat of her father's meat: but there shall no stranger eat thereof.

22:14    若有人誤吃了聖物，要照聖物的原數加上五分之一交給祭司。
And if a man eat of the holy thing unwittingly, then he shall put the fifth part thereof unto it, and shall give it unto the priest with the holy thing.

22:15    祭司不可褻瀆以色列人所獻給耶和華的聖物，
And they shall not profane the holy things of the children of Israel, which they offer unto the LORD;

22:16    免得他們在吃聖物上自取罪孽，因為我是叫他們成聖的耶和華。
Or suffer them to bear the iniquity of trespass, when they eat their holy things: for I the LORD do sanctify them.

22:17    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

22:18    你曉諭亞倫和他子孫，並以色列眾人說，以色列家中的人，或在以色列中寄居的，凡獻供物，無論是所許的願，是甘心獻的，就是獻給耶和華作燔祭的，
Speak unto Aaron, and to his sons, and unto all the children of Israel, and say unto them, Whatsoever he be of the house of Israel, or of the strangers in Israel, that will offer his oblation for all his vows, and for all his freewill offerings, which they will offer unto the LORD for a burnt offering;

22:19    要將沒有殘疾的公牛，或是綿羊，或是山羊獻上，如此方蒙悅納。
Ye shall offer at your own will a male without blemish, of the beeves, of the sheep, or of the goats.

22:20    凡有殘疾的，你們不可獻上，因為這不蒙悅納。
But whatsoever hath a blemish, that shall ye not offer: for it shall not be acceptable for you.

22:21    凡從牛群或是羊群中，將平安祭獻給耶和華，為要還特許的願，或是作甘心獻的，所獻的必純全無殘疾的才蒙悅納。
And whosoever offereth a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD to accomplish his vow, or a freewill offering in beeves or sheep, it shall be perfect to be accepted; there shall be no blemish therein.

22:22    瞎眼的，折傷的，殘廢的，有瘤子的，長癬的，長疥的都不可獻給耶和華，也不可在壇上作為火祭獻給耶和華。
Blind, or broken, or maimed, or having a wen, or scurvy, or scabbed, ye shall not offer these unto the LORD, nor make an offering by fire of them upon the altar unto the LORD.

22:23    無論是公牛是綿羊羔，若肢體有餘的，或是缺少的，只可作甘心祭獻上，用以還願，卻不蒙悅納。
Either a bullock or a lamb that hath any thing superfluous or lacking in his parts, that mayest thou offer for a freewill offering; but for a vow it shall not be accepted.

22:24    腎子損傷的，或是壓碎的，或是破裂的，或是騸了的，不可獻給耶和華，在你們的地上也不可這樣行。
Ye shall not offer unto the LORD that which is bruised, or crushed, or broken, or cut; neither shall ye make any offering thereof in your land.

22:25    這類的物，你們從外人的手，一樣也不可接受作你們神的食物獻上，因為這些都有損壞，有殘疾，不蒙悅納。
Neither from a stranger's hand shall ye offer the bread of your God of any of these; because their corruption is in them, and blemishes be in them: they shall not be accepted for you.

22:26    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

22:27    才生的公牛，或是綿羊或是山羊，七天當跟著母，從第八天以後，可以當供物蒙悅納，作為耶和華的火祭。
When a bullock, or a sheep, or a goat, is brought forth, then it shall be seven days under the dam; and from the eighth day and thenceforth it shall be accepted for an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

22:28    無論是母牛是母羊，不可同日宰母和子。
And whether it be cow or ewe, ye shall not kill it and her young both in one day.

22:29    你們獻感謝祭給耶和華，要獻得可蒙悅納。
And when ye will offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving unto the LORD, offer it at your own will.

22:30    要當天吃，一點不可留到早晨。我是耶和華。
On the same day it shall be eaten up; ye shall leave none of it until the morrow: I am the LORD.

22:31    你們要謹守遵行我的誡命。我是耶和華。
Therefore shall ye keep my commandments, and do them: I am the LORD.

22:32    你們不可褻瀆我的聖名，我在以色列人中，卻要被尊為聖。我是叫你們成聖的耶和華，
Neither shall ye profane my holy name; but I will be hallowed among the children of Israel: I am the LORD which hallow you,

22:33    把你們從埃及地領出來，作你們的神。我是耶和華。
That brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


23:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

23:2    你曉諭以色列人說，耶和華的節期，你們要宣告為聖會的節期。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, Concerning the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, even these are my feasts.

23:3    六日要作工，第七日是聖安息日，當有聖會，你們什麼工都不可作。這是在你們一切的住處向耶和華守的安息日。
Six days shall work be done: but the seventh day is the sabbath of rest, an holy convocation; ye shall do no work therein: it is the sabbath of the LORD in all your dwellings.

23:4    耶和華的節期，就是你們到了日期要宣告為聖會的，乃是這些。
These are the feasts of the LORD, even holy convocations, which ye shall proclaim in their seasons.

23:5    正月十四日，黃昏的時候，是耶和華的逾越節。
In the fourteenth day of the first month at even is the LORD's passover.

23:6    這月十五日是向耶和華守的無酵節，你們要吃無酵餅七日。
And on the fifteenth day of the same month is the feast of unleavened bread unto the LORD: seven days ye must eat unleavened bread.

23:7    第一日當有聖會，什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
In the first day ye shall have an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.

23:8    要將火祭獻給耶和華七日。第七日是聖會，什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
But ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD seven days: in the seventh day is an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.

23:9    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

23:10    你曉諭以色列人說，你們到了我賜給你們的地，收割莊稼的時候，要將初熟的莊稼一捆帶給祭司。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land which I give unto you, and shall reap the harvest thereof, then ye shall bring a sheaf of the firstfruits of your harvest unto the priest:

23:11    他要把這一捆在耶和華面前搖一搖，使你們得蒙悅納。祭司要在安息日的次日把這捆搖一搖。
And he shall wave the sheaf before the LORD, to be accepted for you: on the morrow after the sabbath the priest shall wave it.

23:12    搖這捆的日子，你們要把一歲沒有殘疾的公綿羊貫獻給耶和華為燔祭。
And ye shall offer that day when ye wave the sheaf an he lamb without blemish of the first year for a burnt offering unto the LORD.

23:13    同獻的素祭，就是調油的細面伊法十分之二，作為馨香的火祭，獻給耶和華。同獻的奠祭，要酒一欣四分之一。
And the meat offering thereof shall be two tenth deals of fine flour mingled with oil, an offering made by fire unto the LORD for a sweet savour: and the drink offering thereof shall be of wine, the fourth part of an hin.

23:14    無論是餅，是烘的子粒，是新穗子，你們都不可吃，直等到把你們獻給神的供物帶來的那一天才可以吃。這在你們一切的住處作為世世代代永遠的定例。
And ye shall eat neither bread, nor parched corn, nor green ears, until the selfsame day that ye have brought an offering unto your God: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.

23:15    你們要從安息日的次日，獻禾捆為搖祭的那日算起，要滿了七個安息日。
And ye shall count unto you from the morrow after the sabbath, from the day that ye brought the sheaf of the wave offering; seven sabbaths shall be complete:

23:16    到第七個安息日的次日，共計五十天，又要將新素祭獻給耶和華。
Even unto the morrow after the seventh sabbath shall ye number fifty days; and ye shall offer a new meat offering unto the LORD.

23:17    要從你們的住處取出細面伊法十分之二，加酵，烤成兩個搖祭的餅，當作初熟之物獻給耶和華。
Ye shall bring out of your habitations two wave loaves of two tenth deals: they shall be of fine flour; they shall be baken with leaven; they are the firstfruits unto the LORD.

23:18    又要將一歲，沒有殘疾的羊羔七隻，公牛犢一隻，公綿羊兩隻，和餅一同奉上。這些與同獻的素祭和奠祭要作為燔祭獻給耶和華，就是作馨香的火祭獻給耶和華。
And ye shall offer with the bread seven lambs without blemish of the first year, and one young bullock, and two rams: they shall be for a burnt offering unto the LORD, with their meat offering, and their drink offerings, even an offering made by fire, of sweet savour unto the LORD.

23:19    你們要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭，兩隻一歲的公綿羊羔為平安祭。
Then ye shall sacrifice one kid of the goats for a sin offering, and two lambs of the first year for a sacrifice of peace offerings.

23:20    祭司要把這些和初熟麥子作的餅一同作搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖，這是獻與耶和華為聖物歸給祭司的。
And the priest shall wave them with the bread of the firstfruits for a wave offering before the LORD, with the two lambs: they shall be holy to the LORD for the priest.

23:21    當這日，你們要宣告聖會，什麼勞碌的工都不可作。這在你們一切的住處作為世世代代永遠的定例。
And ye shall proclaim on the selfsame day, that it may be an holy convocation unto you: ye shall do no servile work therein: it shall be a statute for ever in all your dwellings throughout your generations.

23:22    在你們的地收割莊稼，不可割盡田角，也不可拾取所遺落的，要留給窮人和寄居的。我是耶和華你們的神。
And when ye reap the harvest of your land, thou shalt not make clean riddance of the corners of thy field when thou reapest, neither shalt thou gather any gleaning of thy harvest: thou shalt leave them unto the poor, and to the stranger: I am the LORD your God.

23:23    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

23:24    你曉諭以色列人說，七月初一，你們要守為聖安息日，要吹角作紀念，當有聖會。
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, In the seventh month, in the first day of the month, shall ye have a sabbath, a memorial of blowing of trumpets, an holy convocation.



23:25    什麼勞碌的工都不可作，要將火祭獻給耶和華。
Ye shall do no servile work therein: but ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

23:26    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

23:27    七月初十是贖罪日，你們要守為聖會，並要刻苦己心，也要將火祭獻給耶和華。
Also on the tenth day of this seventh month there shall be a day of atonement: it shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall afflict your souls, and offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

23:28    當這日，什麼工都不可作，因為是贖罪日，要在耶和華你們的神面前贖罪。
And ye shall do no work in that same day: for it is a day of atonement, to make an atonement for you before the LORD your God.

23:29    當這日，凡不刻苦己心的，必從民中剪除。
For whatsoever soul it be that shall not be afflicted in that same day, he shall be cut off from among his people.

23:30    凡這日作什麼工的，我必將他從民中除滅。
And whatsoever soul it be that doeth any work in that same day, the same soul will I destroy from among his people.

23:31    你們什麼工都不可作。這在你們一切的住處作為世世代代永遠的定例。
Ye shall do no manner of work: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations in all your dwellings.

23:32    你們要守這日為聖安息日，並要刻苦己心。從這月初九日晚上到次日晚上，要守為安息日。
It shall be unto you a sabbath of rest, and ye shall afflict your souls: in the ninth day of the month at even, from even unto even, shall ye celebrate your sabbath.

23:33    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

23:34    你曉諭以色列人說，這七月十五日是住棚節，要在耶和華面前守這節七日。
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, The fifteenth day of this seventh month shall be the feast of tabernacles for seven days unto the LORD.

23:35    第一日當有聖會，什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
On the first day shall be an holy convocation: ye shall do no servile work therein.

23:36    七日內要將火祭獻給耶和華。第八日當守聖會，要將火祭獻給耶和華。這是嚴肅會，什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
Seven days ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD: on the eighth day shall be an holy convocation unto you; and ye shall offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD: it is a solemn assembly; and ye shall do no servile work therein.

23:37    這是耶和華的節期，就是你們要宣告為聖會的節期，要將火祭，燔祭，素祭，祭物，並奠祭，各歸各日，獻給耶和華。
These are the feasts of the LORD, which ye shall proclaim to be holy convocations, to offer an offering made by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, and a meat offering, a sacrifice, and drink offerings, every thing upon his day:

23:38    這是在耶和華的安息日以外，又在你們的供物和所許的願，並甘心獻給耶和華的以外。
Beside the sabbaths of the LORD, and beside your gifts, and beside all your vows, and beside all your freewill offerings, which ye give unto the LORD.

23:39    你們收藏了地的出產，就從七月十五日起，要守耶和華的節七日。第一日為聖安息，第八日也為聖安息。
Also in the fifteenth day of the seventh month, when ye have gathered in the fruit of the land, ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days: on the first day shall be a sabbath, and on the eighth day shall be a sabbath.

23:40    第一日要拿美好樹上的果子和棕樹上的枝子，與茂密樹的枝條並河旁的柳枝，在耶和華你們的神面前歡樂七日。
And ye shall take you on the first day the boughs of goodly trees, branches of palm trees, and the boughs of thick trees, and willows of the brook; and ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God seven days.

23:41    每年七月間，要向耶和華守這節七日。這為你們世世代代永遠的定例。
And ye shall keep it a feast unto the LORD seven days in the year. It shall be a statute for ever in your generations: ye shall celebrate it in the seventh month.

23:42    你們要住在棚裡七日，凡以色列家的人都要住在棚裡，
Ye shall dwell in booths seven days; all that are Israelites born shall dwell in booths:

23:43    好叫你們世世代代知道，我領以色列人出埃及地的時候曾使他們住在棚裡。我是耶和華你們的神。
That your generations may know that I made the children of Israel to dwell in booths, when I brought them out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

23:44    於是，摩西將耶和華的節期傳給以色列人。
And Moses declared unto the children of Israel the feasts of the LORD.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


24:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

24:2    要吩咐以色列人，把那為點燈搗成的清橄欖油拿來給你，使燈常常點著。
Command the children of Israel, that they bring unto thee pure oil olive beaten for the light, to cause the lamps to burn continually.

24:3    在會幕中法櫃的幔子外，亞倫從晚上到早晨必在耶和華面前經理這燈。這要作你們世世代代永遠的定例。
Without the vail of the testimony, in the tabernacle of the congregation, shall Aaron order it from the evening unto the morning before the LORD continually: it shall be a statute for ever in your generations.

24:4    他要在耶和華面前常收拾精金燈臺上的燈。
He shall order the lamps upon the pure candlestick before the LORD continually.

24:5    你要取細面，烤成十二個餅，每餅用面伊法十分之二。
And thou shalt take fine flour, and bake twelve cakes thereof: two tenth deals shall be in one cake.

24:6    要把餅擺列兩行（行或作摞下同），每行六個，在耶和華面前精金的桌子上。
And thou shalt set them in two rows, six on a row, upon the pure table before the LORD.

24:7    又要把淨乳香放在每行餅上，作為紀念，就是作為火祭獻給耶和華。
And thou shalt put pure frankincense upon each row, that it may be on the bread for a memorial, even an offering made by fire unto the LORD.

24:8    每安息日要常擺在耶和華面前，這為以色列人作永遠的約。
Every sabbath he shall set it in order before the LORD continually, being taken from the children of Israel by an everlasting covenant.

24:9    這餅是要給亞倫和他子孫的，他們要在聖處吃，為永遠的定例，因為在獻給耶和華的火祭中是至聖的。
And it shall be Aaron's and his sons'; and they shall eat it in the holy place: for it is most holy unto him of the offerings of the LORD made by fire by a perpetual statute.

24:10    有一個以色列婦人的兒子，他父親是埃及人，一日閒遊在以色列人中。這以色列婦人的兒子和一個以色列人在營裡爭鬥。
And the son of an Israelitish woman, whose father was an Egyptian, went out among the children of Israel: and this son of the Israelitish woman and a man of Israel strove together in the camp;

24:11    這以色列婦人的兒子褻瀆了聖名，並且咒詛，就有人把他送到摩西那裡。（他母親名叫示羅密，是但支派底伯利的女兒）。
And the Israelitish woman's son blasphemed the name of the Lord, and cursed. And they brought him unto Moses: (and his mother's name was Shelomith, the daughter of Dibri, of the tribe of Dan:)

24:12    他們把那人收在監裡，要得耶和華所指示的話。
And they put him in ward, that the mind of the LORD might be shewed them.

24:13    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

24:14    把那咒詛聖名的人帶到營外。叫聽見的人都放手在他頭上，全會眾就要用石頭打死他。
Bring forth him that hath cursed without the camp; and let all that heard him lay their hands upon his head, and let all the congregation stone him.

24:15    你要曉諭以色列人說，凡咒詛神的，必擔當他的罪。
And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, Whosoever curseth his God shall bear his sin.

24:16    那褻瀆耶和華名的，必被治死，全會眾總要用石頭打死他。不管是寄居的是本地人，他褻瀆耶和華名的時候，必被治死。
And he that blasphemeth the name of the LORD, he shall surely be put to death, and all the congregation shall certainly stone him: as well the stranger, as he that is born in the land, when he blasphemeth the name of the Lord, shall be put to death.

24:17    打死人的，必被治死。
And he that killeth any man shall surely be put to death.

24:18    打死牲畜的，必賠上牲畜，以命償命。
And he that killeth a beast shall make it good; beast for beast.

24:19    人若使他鄰舍的身體有殘疾，他怎樣行，也要照樣向他行，
And if a man cause a blemish in his neighbour; as he hath done, so shall it be done to him;

24:20    以傷還傷，以眼還眼，以牙還牙。他怎樣叫人的身體有殘疾，也要照樣向他行。
Breach for breach, eye for eye, tooth for tooth: as he hath caused a blemish in a man, so shall it be done to him again.

24:21    打死牲畜的，必賠上牲畜，打死人的，必被治死。
And he that killeth a beast, he shall restore it: and he that killeth a man, he shall be put to death.

24:22    不管是寄居的是本地人，同歸一例。我是耶和華你們的神。
Ye shall have one manner of law, as well for the stranger, as for one of your own country: for I am the LORD your God.

24:23    於是，摩西曉諭以色列人，他們就把那咒詛聖名的人帶到營外，用石頭打死。以色列人就照耶和華所吩咐摩西的行了。
And Moses spake to the children of Israel, that they should bring forth him that had cursed out of the camp, and stone him with stones. And the children of Israel did as the LORD commanded Moses.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


25:1    耶和華在西奈山對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses in mount Sinai, saying,

25:2    你曉諭以色列人說，你們到了我所賜你們那地的時候，地就要向耶和華守安息。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land which I give you, then shall the land keep a sabbath unto the LORD.

25:3    六年要耕種田地，也要修理葡萄園，收藏地的出產。
Six years thou shalt sow thy field, and six years thou shalt prune thy vineyard, and gather in the fruit thereof;

25:4    第七年，地要守聖安息，就是向耶和華守的安息，不可耕種田地，也不可修理葡萄園。
But in the seventh year shall be a sabbath of rest unto the land, a sabbath for the LORD: thou shalt neither sow thy field, nor prune thy vineyard.

25:5    遺落自長的莊稼不可收割，沒有修理的葡萄樹也不可摘取葡萄。這年，地要守聖安息。
That which groweth of its own accord of thy harvest thou shalt not reap, neither gather the grapes of thy vine undressed: for it is a year of rest unto the land.

25:6    地在安息年所出的，要給你和你的僕人，婢女，僱工人，並寄居的外人當食物。
And the sabbath of the land shall be meat for you; for thee, and for thy servant, and for thy maid, and for thy hired servant, and for thy stranger that sojourneth with thee,

25:7    這年的土產也要給你的牲畜和你地上的走獸當食物。
And for thy cattle, and for the beast that are in thy land, shall all the increase thereof be meat.

25:8    你要計算七個安息年，就是七七年。這便為你成了七個安息年，共是四十九年。
And thou shalt number seven sabbaths of years unto thee, seven times seven years; and the space of the seven sabbaths of years shall be unto thee forty and nine years.

25:9    當年七月初十日，你要大發角聲，這日就是贖罪日，要在遍地發出角聲。
Then shalt thou cause the trumpet of the jubile to sound on the tenth day of the seventh month, in the day of atonement shall ye make the trumpet sound throughout all your land.

25:10    第五十年，你們要當作聖年，在遍地給一切的居民宣告自由。這年必為你們的禧年，各人要歸自己的產業，各歸本家。
And ye shall hallow the fiftieth year, and proclaim liberty throughout all the land unto all the inhabitants thereof: it shall be a jubile unto you; and ye shall return every man unto his possession, and ye shall return every man unto his family.

25:11    第五十年要作為你們的禧年。這年不可耕種，地中自長的，不可收割，沒有修理的葡萄樹也不可摘取葡萄。
A jubile shall that fiftieth year be unto you: ye shall not sow, neither reap that which groweth of itself in it, nor gather the grapes in it of thy vine undressed.

25:12    因為這是禧年，你們要當作聖年，吃地中自出的土產。
For it is the jubile; it shall be holy unto you: ye shall eat the increase thereof out of the field.

25:13    這禧年，你們各人要歸自己的地業。
In the year of this jubile ye shall return every man unto his possession.

25:14    你若賣什麼給鄰舍，或是從鄰舍的手中買什麼，彼此不可虧負。
And if thou sell ought unto thy neighbour, or buyest ought of thy neighbour's hand, ye shall not oppress one another:

25:15    你要按禧年以後的年數向鄰舍買，他也要按年數的收成賣給你。
According to the number of years after the jubile thou shalt buy of thy neighbour, and according unto the number of years of the fruits he shall sell unto thee:

25:16    年歲若多，要照數加添價值，年歲若少，要照數減去價值，因為他照收成的數目賣給你。
According to the multitude of years thou shalt increase the price thereof, and according to the fewness of years thou shalt diminish the price of it: for according to the number of the years of the fruits doth he sell unto thee.

25:17    你們彼此不可虧負，只要敬畏你們的神，因為我是耶和華你們的神。
Ye shall not therefore oppress one another; but thou shalt fear thy God:for I am the LORD your God.

25:18    我的律例，你們要遵行，我的典章，你們要謹守，就可以在那地上安然居住。
Wherefore ye shall do my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them; and ye shall dwell in the land in safety.

25:19    地必出土產，你們就要吃飽，在那地上安然居住。
And the land shall yield her fruit, and ye shall eat your fill, and dwell therein in safety.

25:20    你們若說，這第七年我們不耕種，也不收藏土產，吃什麼呢。
And if ye shall say, What shall we eat the seventh year? behold, we shall not sow, nor gather in our increase:

25:21    我必在第六年將我所命的福賜給你們，地便生三年的土產。
Then I will command my blessing upon you in the sixth year, and it shall bring forth fruit for three years.

25:22    第八年，你們要耕種，也要吃陳糧，等到第九年出產收來的時候，你們還吃陳糧。
And ye shall sow the eighth year, and eat yet of old fruit until the ninth year; until her fruits come in ye shall eat of the old store.

25:23    地不可永賣，因為地是我的，你們在我面前是客旅，是寄居的。
The land shall not be sold for ever: for the land is mine; for ye are strangers and sojourners with me.

25:24    在你們所得為業的全地，也要準人將地贖回。
And in all the land of your possession ye shall grant a redemption for the land.

25:25    你的弟兄（弟兄指本國人說下同）若漸漸窮乏，賣了幾分地業，他至近的親屬就要來把弟兄所賣的贖回。
If thy brother be waxen poor, and hath sold away some of his possession, and if any of his kin come to redeem it, then shall he redeem that which his brother sold.

25:26    若沒有能給他贖回的，他自己漸漸富足，能夠贖回，
And if the man have none to redeem it, and himself be able to redeem it;

25:27    就要算出賣地的年數，把餘剩年數的價值還那買主，自己便歸回自己的地業。
Then let him count the years of the sale thereof, and restore the overplus unto the man to whom he sold it; that he may return unto his possession.

25:28    倘若不能為自己得回所賣的，仍要存在買主的手裡直到禧年，到了禧年，地業要出買主的手，自己便歸回自己的地業。
But if he be not able to restore it to him, then that which is sold shall remain in the hand of him that hath bought it until the year of jubile: and in the jubile it shall go out, and he shall return unto his possession.

25:29    人若賣城內的住宅，賣了以後，一年之內可以贖回，在一整年，必有贖回的權柄。
And if a man sell a dwelling house in a walled city, then he may redeem it within a whole year after it is sold; within a full year may he redeem it.

25:30    若在一整年之內不贖回，這城內的房屋就定準永歸買主，世世代代為業，在禧年也不得出買主的手。
And if it be not redeemed within the space of a full year, then the house that is in the walled city shall be established for ever to him that bought it throughout his generations: it shall not go out in the jubile.

25:31    但房屋在無城牆的村莊裡，要看如鄉下的田地一樣，可以贖回，到了禧年，都要出買主的手。
But the houses of the villages which have no wall round about them shall be counted as the fields of the country: they may be redeemed, and they shall go out in the jubile.

25:32    然而利未人所得為業的城邑，其中的房屋，利未人可以隨時贖回。
Notwithstanding the cities of the Levites, and the houses of the cities of their possession, may the Levites redeem at any time.

25:33    若是一個利未人不將所賣的房屋贖回，是在所得為業的城內，到了禧年就要出買主的手，因為利未人城邑的房屋是他們在以色列人中的產業。
And if a man purchase of the Levites, then the house that was sold, and the city of his possession, shall go out in the year of jubile: for the houses of the cities of the Levites are their possession among the children of Israel.

25:34    只是他們各城郊野之地不可賣，因為是他們永遠的產業。
But the field of the suburbs of their cities may not be sold; for it is their perpetual possession.

25:35    你的弟兄在你那裡若漸漸貧窮，手中缺乏，你就要幫補他，使他與你同住，像外人和寄居的一樣。
And if thy brother be waxen poor, and fallen in decay with thee; then thou shalt relieve him: yea, though he be a stranger, or a sojourner; that he may live with thee.

25:36    不可向他取利，也不可向他多要，只要敬畏你的神，使你的弟兄與你同住。
Take thou no usury of him, or increase: but fear thy God; that thy brother may live with thee.

25:37    你借錢給他，不可向他取利，借糧給他，也不可向他多要。
Thou shalt not give him thy money upon usury, nor lend him thy victuals for increase.

25:38    我是耶和華你們的神，曾領你們從埃及地出來，為要把迦南地賜給你們，要作你們的神。
I am the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, to give you the land of Canaan, and to be your God.

25:39    你的弟兄若在你那裡漸漸窮乏，將自己賣給你，不可叫他像奴僕服事你。
And if thy brother that dwelleth by thee be waxen poor, and be sold unto thee; thou shalt not compel him to serve as a bondservant:

25:40    他要在你那裡像僱工人和寄居的一樣，要服事你直到禧年。
But as an hired servant, and as a sojourner, he shall be with thee, and shall serve thee unto the year of jubile:

25:41    到了禧年，他和他兒女要離開你，一同出去歸回本家，到他祖宗的地業那裡去。
And then shall he depart from thee, both he and his children with him, and shall return unto his own family, and unto the possession of his fathers shall he return.

25:42    因為他們是我的僕人，是我從埃及地領出來的，不可賣為奴僕。
For they are my servants, which I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: they shall not be sold as bondmen.

25:43    不可嚴嚴地轄管他，只要敬畏你的神。
Thou shalt not rule over him with rigour; but shalt fear thy God.

25:44    至於你的奴僕，婢女，可以從你四圍的國中買。
Both thy bondmen, and thy bondmaids, which thou shalt have, shall be of the heathen that are round about you; of them shall ye buy bondmen and bondmaids.

25:45    並且那寄居在你們中間的外人和他們的家屬，在你們地上所生的，你們也可以從其中買人，他們要作你們的產業。
Moreover of the children of the strangers that do sojourn among you, of them shall ye buy, and of their families that are with you, which they begat in your land: and they shall be your possession.

25:46    你們要將他們遺留給你們的子孫為產業，要永遠從他們中間揀出奴僕，只是你們的弟兄以色列人，你們不可嚴嚴地轄管。
And ye shall take them as an inheritance for your children after you, to inherit them for a possession; they shall be your bondmen for ever: but over your brethren the children of Israel, ye shall not rule one over another with rigour.

25:47    住在你那裡的外人，或是寄居的，若漸漸富足，你的弟兄卻漸漸窮乏，將自己賣給那外人，或是寄居的，或是外人的宗族，
And if a sojourner or stranger wax rich by thee, and thy brother that dwelleth by him wax poor, and sell himself unto the stranger or sojourner by thee, or to the stock of the stranger's family:

25:48    賣了以後，可以將他贖回。無論是他的弟兄，
After that he is sold he may be redeemed again; one of his brethren may redeem him:

25:49    或伯叔，伯叔的兒子，本家的近支，都可以贖他。他自己若漸漸富足，也可以自贖。
Either his uncle, or his uncle's son, may redeem him, or any that is nigh of kin unto him of his family may redeem him; or if he be able, he may redeem himself.

25:50    他要和買主計算，從賣自己的那年起，算到禧年，所賣的價值照著年數多少，好像工人每年的工價。
And he shall reckon with him that bought him from the year that he was sold to him unto the year of jubile: and the price of his sale shall be according unto the number of years, according to the time of an hired servant shall it be with him.

25:51    若缺少的年數多，就要按著年數從買價中償還他的贖價。
If there be yet many years behind, according unto them he shall give again the price of his redemption out of the money that he was bought for.

25:52    若到禧年只缺少幾年，就要按著年數和買主計算，償還他的贖價。
And if there remain but few years unto the year of jubile, then he shall count with him, and according unto his years shall he give him again the price of his redemption.

25:53    他和買主同住，要像每年僱的工人，買主不可嚴嚴地轄管他。
And as a yearly hired servant shall he be with him: and the other shall not rule with rigour over him in thy sight.

25:54    他若不這樣被贖，到了禧年，要和他的兒女一同出去。
And if he be not redeemed in these years, then he shall go out in the year of jubile, both he, and his children with him.

25:55    因為以色列人都是我的僕人，是我從埃及地領出來的。我是耶和華你們的神。
For unto me the children of Israel are servants; they are my servants whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )    　


26:1    你們不可作什麼虛無的神像，不可立雕刻的偶像或是柱像，也不可在你們的地上安什麼鏨成的石像，向它跪拜，因為我是耶和華你們的神。
Ye shall make you no idols nor graven image, neither rear you up a standing image, neither shall ye set up any image of stone in your land, to bow down unto it: for I am the LORD your God.

26:2    你們要守我的安息日，敬我的聖所。我是耶和華。
Ye shall keep my sabbaths, and reverence my sanctuary: I am the LORD.

26:3    你們若遵行我的律例，謹守我的誡命，
If ye walk in my statutes, and keep my commandments, and do them;

26:4    我就給你們降下時雨，叫地生出土產，田野的樹木結果子。
Then I will give you rain in due season, and the land shall yield her increase, and the trees of the field shall yield their fruit.

26:5    你們打糧食要打到摘葡萄的時候，摘葡萄要摘到撒種的時候，並且要吃得飽足，在你們的地上安然居住。
And your threshing shall reach unto the vintage, and the vintage shall reach unto the sowing time: and ye shall eat your bread to the full, and dwell in your land safely.

26:6    我要賜平安在你們的地上，你們躺臥，無人驚嚇。我要叫惡獸從你們的地上息滅，刀劍也必不經過你們的地。
And I will give peace in the land, and ye shall lie down, and none shall make you afraid: and I will rid evil beasts out of the land, neither shall the sword go through your land.

26:7    你們要追趕仇敵，他們必倒在你們刀下。
And ye shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword.

26:8    你們五個人要追趕一百人，一百人要追趕一萬人，仇敵必倒在你們刀下。
And five of you shall chase an hundred, and an hundred of you shall put ten thousand to flight: and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword.

26:9    我要眷顧你們，使你們生養眾多，也要與你們堅定所立的約。
For I will have respect unto you, and make you fruitful, and multiply you, and establish my covenant with you.

26:10    你們要吃陳糧，又因新糧挪開陳糧。
And ye shall eat old store, and bring forth the old because of the new.

26:11    我要在你們中間立我的帳幕，我的心也不厭惡你們。
And I will set my tabernacle among you: and my soul shall not abhor you.

26:12    我要在你們中間行走，我要作你們的神，你們要作我的子民。
And I will walk among you, and will be your God, and ye shall be my people.

26:13    我是耶和華你們的神，曾將你們從埃及地領出來，使你們不作埃及人的奴僕，我也折斷你們所負的軛，叫你們挺身而走。
I am the LORD your God, which brought you forth out of the land of Egypt, that ye should not be their bondmen; and I have broken the bands of your yoke, and made you go upright.

26:14    你們若不聽從我，不遵行我的誡命，
But if ye will not hearken unto me, and will not do all these commandments;

26:15    厭棄我的律例，厭惡我的典章，不遵行我一切的誡命，背棄我的約，
And if ye shall despise my statutes, or if your soul abhor my judgments, so that ye will not do all my commandments, but that ye break my covenant:

26:16    我待你們就要這樣，我必命定驚惶，叫眼目乾癟，精神消耗的癆病熱病轄制你們。你們也要白白地撒種，因為仇敵要吃你們所種的。
I also will do this unto you; I will even appoint over you terror, consumption, and the burning ague, that shall consume the eyes, and cause sorrow of heart: and ye shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it.

26:17    我要向你們變臉，你們就要敗在仇敵面前。恨惡你們的，必轄管你們，無人追趕，你們卻要逃跑。
And I will set my face against you, and ye shall be slain before your enemies: they that hate you shall reign over you; and ye shall flee when none pursueth you.

26:18    你們因這些事若還不聽從我，我就要為你們的罪加七倍懲罰你們。
And if ye will not yet for all this hearken unto me, then I will punish you seven times more for your sins.

26:19    我必斷絕你們因勢力而有的驕傲，又要使覆你們的天如鐵，載你們的地如銅。
And I will break the pride of your power; and I will make your heaven as iron, and your earth as brass:

26:20    你們要白白地勞力，因為你們的地不出土產，其上的樹木也不結果子。
And your strength shall be spent in vain: for your land shall not yield her increase, neither shall the trees of the land yield their fruits.

26:21    你們行事若與我反對，不肯聽從我，我就要按你們的罪加七倍降災與你們。
And if ye walk contrary unto me, and will not hearken unto me; I will bring seven times more plagues upon you according to your sins.

26:22    我也要打發野地的走獸到你們中間，搶吃你們的兒女，吞滅你們的牲畜，使你們的人數減少，道路荒涼。
I will also send wild beasts among you, which shall rob you of your children, and destroy your cattle, and make you few in number; and your high ways shall be desolate.

26:23    你們因這些事若仍不改正歸我，行事與我反對，
And if ye will not be reformed by me by these things, but will walk contrary unto me;

26:24    我就要行事與你們反對，因你們的罪擊打你們七次。
Then will I also walk contrary unto you, and will punish you yet seven times for your sins.

26:25    我又要使刀劍臨到你們，報復你們背約的仇，聚集你們在各城內，降瘟疫在你們中間，也必將你們交在仇敵的手中。
And I will bring a sword upon you, that shall avenge the quarrel of my covenant: and when ye are gathered together within your cities, I will send the pestilence among you; and ye shall be delivered into the hand of the enemy.

26:26    我要折斷你們的杖，就是斷絕你們的糧。那時，必有十個女人在一個爐子給你們烤餅，按分量秤給你們，你們要吃，也吃不飽。
And when I have broken the staff of your bread, ten women shall bake your bread in one oven, and they shall deliver you your bread again by weight: and ye shall eat, and not be satisfied.

26:27    你們因這一切的事若不聽從我，卻行事與我反對，
And if ye will not for all this hearken unto me, but walk contrary unto me;

26:28    我就要發烈怒，行事與你們反對，又因你們的罪懲罰你們七次。
Then I will walk contrary unto you also in fury; and I, even I, will chastise you seven times for your sins.

26:29    並且你們要吃兒子的肉，也要吃女兒的肉。
And ye shall eat the flesh of your sons, and the flesh of your daughters shall ye eat.

26:30    我又要毀壞你們的邱壇，砍下你們的日像，把你們的屍首扔在你們偶像的身上，我的心也必厭惡你們。
And I will destroy your high places, and cut down your images, and cast your carcases upon the carcases of your idols, and my soul shall abhor you.

26:31    我要使你們的城邑變為荒涼，使你們的眾聖所成為荒場，我也不聞你們馨香的香氣。
And I will make your cities waste, and bring your sanctuaries unto desolation, and I will not smell the savour of your sweet odours.

26:32    我要使地成為荒場，住在其上的仇敵就因此詫異。
And I will bring the land into desolation: and your enemies which dwell therein shall be astonished at it.

26:33    我要把你們散在列邦中，我也要拔刀追趕你們。你們的地要成為荒場，你們的城邑要變為荒涼。
And I will scatter you among the heathen, and will draw out a sword after you: and your land shall be desolate, and your cities waste.

26:34    你們在仇敵之地居住的時候，你們的地荒涼要享受眾安息，正在那時候，地要歇息，享受安息。
Then shall the land enjoy her sabbaths, as long as it lieth desolate, and ye be in your enemies' land; even then shall the land rest, and enjoy her sabbaths.

26:35    地多時為荒場，就要多時歇息，地這樣歇息，是你們住在其上的安息年所不能得的。
As long as it lieth desolate it shall rest; because it did not rest in your sabbaths, when ye dwelt upon it.

26:36    至於你們剩下的人，我要使他們在仇敵之地心驚膽怯。葉子被風吹的響聲，要追趕他們，他們要逃避，像人逃避刀劍，無人追趕，卻要跌倒。
And upon them that are left alive of you I will send a faintness into their hearts in the lands of their enemies; and the sound of a shaken leaf shall chase them; and they shall flee, as fleeing from a sword; and they shall fall when none pursueth.

26:37    無人追趕，他們要彼此撞跌，像在刀劍之前。你們在仇敵面前也必站立不住。
And they shall fall one upon another, as it were before a sword, when none pursueth: and ye shall have no power to stand before your enemies.

26:38    你們要在列邦中滅亡，仇敵之地要吞吃你們。
And ye shall perish among the heathen, and the land of your enemies shall eat you up.

26:39    你們剩下的人必因自己的罪孽和祖宗的罪孽在仇敵之地消滅。
And they that are left of you shall pine away in their iniquity in your enemies' lands; and also in the iniquities of their fathers shall they pine away with them.

26:40    他們要承認自己的罪和他們祖宗的罪，就是干犯我的那罪，並且承認自己行事與我反對，
If they shall confess their iniquity, and the iniquity of their fathers, with their trespass which they trespassed against me, and that also they have walked contrary unto me;

26:41    我所以行事與他們反對，把他們帶到仇敵之地。那時，他們未受割禮的心若謙卑了，他們也服了罪孽的刑罰，
And that I also have walked contrary unto them, and have brought them into the land of their enemies; if then their uncircumcised hearts be humbled, and they then accept of the punishment of their iniquity:

26:42    我就要記念我與雅各所立的約，與以撒所立的約，與亞伯拉罕所立的約，並要記念這地。
Then will I remember my covenant with Jacob, and also my covenant with Isaac, and also my covenant with Abraham will I remember; and I will remember the land.

26:43    他們離開這地，地在荒廢無人的時候就要享受安息。並且他們要服罪孽的刑罰，因為他們厭棄了我的典章，心中厭惡了我的律例。
The land also shall be left of them, and shall enjoy her sabbaths, while she lieth desolate without them: and they shall accept of the punishment of their iniquity: because, even because they despised my judgments, and because their soul abhorred my statutes.

26:44    雖是這樣，他們在仇敵之地，我卻不厭棄他們，也不厭惡他們，將他們盡行滅絕，也不背棄我與他們所立的約，因為我是耶和華他們的神。
And yet for all that, when they be in the land of their enemies, I will not cast them away, neither will I abhor them, to destroy them utterly, and to break my covenant with them: for I am the LORD their God.

26:45    我卻要為他們的緣故記念我與他們先祖所立的約。他們的先祖是我在列邦人眼前，從埃及地領出來的，為要作他們的神。我是耶和華。
But I will for their sakes remember the covenant of their ancestors, whom I brought forth out of the land of Egypt in the sight of the heathen, that I might be their God: I am the LORD.

26:46    這些律例，典章，和法度是耶和華與以色列人在西奈山藉著摩西立的。
These are the statutes and judgments and laws, which the LORD made between him and the children of Israel in mount Sinai by the hand of Moses.



舊約 -- 利未記(Leviticus) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 27 章 )


27:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

27:2    你曉諭以色列人說，人還特許的願，被許的人要按你所估的價值歸給耶和華。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When a man shall make a singular vow, the persons shall be for the LORD by thy estimation.

27:3    你估定的，從二十歲到六十歲的男人，要按聖所的平，估定價銀五十舍客勒。
And thy estimation shall be of the male from twenty years old even unto sixty years old, even thy estimation shall be fifty shekels of silver, after the shekel of the sanctuary.

27:4    若是女人，你要估定三十舍客勒。
And if it be a female, then thy estimation shall be thirty shekels.

27:5    若是從五歲到二十歲，男子你要估定二十舍客勒，女子估定十舍客勒。
And if it be from five years old even unto twenty years old, then thy estimation shall be of the male twenty shekels, and for the female ten shekels.

27:6    若是從一月到五歲，男子你要估定五舍客勒，女子估定三舍客勒。
And if it be from a month old even unto five years old, then thy estimation shall be of the male five shekels of silver, and for the female thy estimation shall be three shekels of silver.

27:7    若是從六十歲以上，男人你要估定十五舍客勒，女人估定十舍客勒。
And if it be from sixty years old and above; if it be a male, then thy estimation shall be fifteen shekels, and for the female ten shekels.

27:8    他若貧窮，不能照你所估定的價，就要把他帶到祭司面前，祭司要按許願人的力量估定他的價。
But if he be poorer than thy estimation, then he shall present himself before the priest, and the priest shall value him; according to his ability that vowed shall the priest value him.

27:9    所許的若是牲畜，就是人獻給耶和華為供物的，凡這一類獻給耶和華的，都要成為聖。
And if it be a beast, whereof men bring an offering unto the LORD, all that any man giveth of such unto the LORD shall be holy.

27:10    人不可改換，也不可更換，或是好的換壞的，或是壞的換好的。若以牲畜更換牲畜，所許的與所換的都要成為聖。
He shall not alter it, nor change it, a good for a bad, or a bad for a good: and if he shall at all change beast for beast, then it and the exchange thereof shall be holy.

27:11    若牲畜不潔淨，是不可獻給耶和華為供物的，就要把牲畜安置在祭司面前。
And if it be any unclean beast, of which they do not offer a sacrifice unto the LORD, then he shall present the beast before the priest:

27:12    祭司就要估定價值，牲畜是好是壞，祭司怎樣估定，就要以怎樣為是。
And the priest shall value it, whether it be good or bad: as thou valuest it, who art the priest, so shall it be.

27:13    他若一定要贖回，就要在你所估定的價值以外加上五分之一。
But if he will at all redeem it, then he shall add a fifth part thereof unto thy estimation.

27:14    人將房屋分別為聖，歸給耶和華，祭司就要估定價值。房屋是好是壞，祭司怎樣估定，就要以怎樣為定。
And when a man shall sanctify his house to be holy unto the LORD, then the priest shall estimate it, whether it be good or bad: as the priest shall estimate it, so shall it stand.

27:15    將房屋分別為聖的人，若要贖回房屋，就必在你所估定的價值以外加上五分之一，房屋仍舊歸他。
And if he that sanctified it will redeem his house, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto it, and it shall be his.

27:16    人若將承受為業的幾分地分別為聖，歸給耶和華，你要按這地撒種多少估定價值，若撒大麥一賀梅珥，要估價五十舍客勒。
And if a man shall sanctify unto the LORD some part of a field of his possession, then thy estimation shall be according to the seed thereof: an homer of barley seed shall be valued at fifty shekels of silver.

27:17    他若從禧年將地分別為聖，就要以你所估定的價為定。
If he sanctify his field from the year of jubile, according to thy estimation it shall stand.

27:18    倘若他在禧年以後將地分別為聖，祭司就要按著未到禧年所剩的年數推算價值，也要從你所估的減去價值。
But if he sanctify his field after the jubile, then the priest shall reckon unto him the money according to the years that remain, even unto the year of the jubile, and it shall be abated from thy estimation.

27:19    將地分別為聖的人若定要把地贖回，他便要在你所估的價值以外加上五分之一，地就準定歸他。
And if he that sanctified the field will in any wise redeem it, then he shall add the fifth part of the money of thy estimation unto it, and it shall be assured to him.

27:20    他若不贖回那地，或是將地賣給別人，就再不能贖了。
And if he will not redeem the field, or if he have sold the field to another man, it shall not be redeemed any more.

27:21    但到了禧年，那地從買主手下出來的時候，就要歸耶和華為聖，和永獻的地一樣，要歸祭司為業。
But the field, when it goeth out in the jubile, shall be holy unto the LORD, as a field devoted; the possession thereof shall be the priest's.

27:22    他若將所買的一塊地，不是承受為業的，分別為聖歸給耶和華，
And if a man sanctify unto the LORD a field which he hath bought, which is not of the fields of his possession;

27:23    祭司就要將你所估的價值給他推算到禧年。當日，他要以你所估的價銀為聖，歸給耶和華。
Then the priest shall reckon unto him the worth of thy estimation, even unto the year of the jubile: and he shall give thine estimation in that day, as a holy thing unto the LORD.

27:24    到了禧年，那地要歸賣主，就是那承受為業的原主。
In the year of the jubile the field shall return unto him of whom it was bought, even to him to whom the possession of the land did belong.

27:25    凡你所估定的價銀都要按著聖所的平，二十季拉為一舍客勒。
And all thy estimations shall be according to the shekel of the sanctuary: twenty gerahs shall be the shekel.

27:26    惟獨牲畜中頭生的，無論是牛是羊，既歸耶和華，誰也不可再分別為聖，因為這是耶和華的。
Only the firstling of the beasts, which should be the LORD's firstling, no man shall sanctify it; whether it be ox, or sheep: it is the LORD's.

27:27    若是不潔淨的牲畜生的，就要按你所估定的價值加上五分之一贖回，若不贖回，就要按你所估定的價值賣了。
And if it be of an unclean beast, then he shall redeem it according to thine estimation, and shall add a fifth part of it thereto: or if it be not redeemed, then it shall be sold according to thy estimation.

27:28    但一切永獻的，就是人從他所有永獻給耶和華的，無論是人，是牲畜，是他承受為業的地，都不可賣，也不可贖。凡永獻的是歸給耶和華為至聖。
Notwithstanding no devoted thing, that a man shall devote unto the LORD of all that he hath, both of man and beast, and of the field of his possession, shall be sold or redeemed: every devoted thing is most holy unto the LORD.

27:29    凡從人中當滅的都不可贖，必被治死。
None devoted, which shall be devoted of men, shall be redeemed; but shall surely be put to death.

27:30    地上所有的，無論是地上的種子是樹上的果子，十分之一是耶和華的，是歸給耶和華為聖的。
And all the tithe of the land, whether of the seed of the land, or of the fruit of the tree, is the LORD's: it is holy unto the LORD.

27:31    人若要贖這十分之一的什麼物，就要加上五分之一。
And if a man will at all redeem ought of his tithes, he shall add thereto the fifth part thereof.

27:32    凡牛群羊群中，一切從杖下經過的，每第十隻要歸給耶和華為聖。
And concerning the tithe of the herd, or of the flock, even of whatsoever passeth under the rod, the tenth shall be holy unto the LORD.

27:33    不可問是好是壞，也不可更換，若定要更換，所更換的與本來的牲畜都要成為聖，不可贖回。
He shall not search whether it be good or bad, neither shall he change it: and if he change it at all, then both it and the change thereof shall be holy; it shall not be redeemed.

27:34    這就是耶和華在西奈山為以色列人所吩咐摩西的命令。
These are the commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses for the children of Israel in mount Sinai.


