
舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


1:1    以色列人出埃及地後，第二年二月初一日，耶和華在西奈的曠野，會幕中曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the tabernacle of the congregation, on the first day of the second month, in the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,

1:2    你要按以色列全會眾的家室，宗族，人名的數目，計算所有的男丁。
Take ye the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, after their families, by the house of their fathers, with the number of their names, every male by their polls;

1:3    凡以色列中，從二十歲以外，能出去打仗的，你和亞倫要照他們的軍隊數點。
From twenty years old and upward, all that are able to go forth to war in Israel: thou and Aaron shall number them by their armies.

1:4    每支派中，必有一人作本支派的族長，幫助你們。
And with you there shall be a man of every tribe; every one head of the house of his fathers.

1:5    他們的名字，屬流便的，有示丟珥的兒子以利蓿。
And these are the names of the men that shall stand with you: of the tribe of Reuben; Elizur the son of Shedeur.

1:6    屬西緬的，有蘇利沙代的兒子示路蔑。
Of Simeon; Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

1:7    屬猶大的，有亞米拿達的兒子拿順。
Of Judah; Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

1:8    屬以薩迦的，有蘇押的兒子拿坦業。
Of Issachar; Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

1:9    屬西布倫的，有希倫的兒子以利押。
Of Zebulun; Eliab the son of Helon.

1:10    約瑟子孫，屬以法蓮的，有亞米忽的兒子以利沙瑪。屬瑪拿西的，有比大蓿的兒子迦瑪列。
Of the children of Joseph: of Ephraim; Elishama the son of Ammihud: of Manasseh; Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

1:11    屬便雅憫的，有基多尼的兒子亞比但。
Of Benjamin; Abidan the son of Gideoni.

1:12    屬但的，有亞米沙代的兒子亞希以謝。
Of Dan; Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

1:13    屬亞設的，有俄蘭的兒子帕結。
Of Asher; Pagiel the son of Ocran.

1:14    屬迦得的，有丟珥的兒子以利雅薩。
Of Gad; Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

1:15    屬拿弗他利的，有以南的兒子亞希拉。
Of Naphtali; Ahira the son of Enan.

1:16    這都是從會中選召的，各作本支派的首領，都是以色列軍中的統領。
These were the renowned of the congregation, princes of the tribes of their fathers, heads of thousands in Israel.

1:17    於是，摩西，亞倫帶著這些按名指定的人，
And Moses and Aaron took these men which are expressed by their names:

1:18    當二月初一日招聚全會眾。會眾就照他們的家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外的，都述說自己的家譜。
And they assembled all the congregation together on the first day of the second month, and they declared their pedigrees after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, by their polls.

1:19    耶和華怎樣吩咐摩西，他就怎樣在西奈的曠野數點他們。
As the LORD commanded Moses, so he numbered them in the wilderness of Sinai.

1:20    以色列的長子，流便子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
And the children of Reuben, Israel's eldest son, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:21    被數的男丁，共有四萬六千五百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Reuben, were forty and six thousand and five hundred.

1:22    西緬子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Simeon, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, those that were numbered of them, according to the number of the names, by their polls, every male from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:23    被數的男丁，共有五萬九千三百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Simeon, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.

1:24    迦得子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Gad, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:25    被數的，共有四萬五千六百五十名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Gad, were forty and five thousand six hundred and fifty.

1:26    猶大子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Judah, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:27    被數的，共有七萬四千六百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Judah, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.

1:28    以薩迦子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Issachar, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:29    被數的，共有五萬四千四百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Issachar, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred.

1:30    西布倫子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Zebulun, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:31    被數的，共有五萬七千四百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Zebulun, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.

1:32    約瑟子孫，屬以法蓮子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Joseph, namely, of the children of Ephraim, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:33    被數的，共有四萬零五百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Ephraim, were forty thousand and five hundred.

1:34    瑪拿西子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Manasseh, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:35    被數的，共有三萬二千二百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Manasseh, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred.

1:36    便雅憫子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Benjamin, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:37    被數的，共有三萬五千四百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Benjamin, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred.

1:38    但子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Dan, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:39    被數的，共有六萬二千七百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Dan, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.

1:40    亞設子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Asher, by their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:41    被數的，共有四萬一千五百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Asher, were forty and one thousand and five hundred.

1:42    拿弗他利子孫的後代，照著家室，宗族，人名的數目，從二十歲以外，凡能出去打仗，
Of the children of Naphtali, throughout their generations, after their families, by the house of their fathers, according to the number of the names, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war;

1:43    被數的，共有五萬三千四百名。
Those that were numbered of them, even of the tribe of Naphtali, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.

1:44    這些就是被數點的，是摩西，亞倫，和以色列中十二個首領所數點的。這十二個人各作各宗族的代表。
These are those that were numbered, which Moses and Aaron numbered, and the princes of Israel, being twelve men: each one was for the house of his fathers.

1:45    這樣凡以色列人中被數的，照著宗族從二十歲以外，能出去打仗，
So were all those that were numbered of the children of Israel, by the house of their fathers, from twenty years old and upward, all that were able to go forth to war in Israel;

1:46    被數的，共有六十萬零三千五百五十名。
Even all they that were numbered were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.

1:47    利未人卻沒有按著支派數在其中，
But the Levites after the tribe of their fathers were not numbered among them.

1:48    因為耶和華曉諭摩西說，
For the LORD had spoken unto Moses, saying,

1:49    惟獨利未支派你不可數點，也不可在以色列人中計算他們的總數。
Only thou shalt not number the tribe of Levi, neither take the sum of them among the children of Israel:

1:50    只要派利未人管法櫃的帳幕和其中的器具，並屬乎帳幕的。他們要抬（抬或作搬運）帳幕和其中的器具，並要辦理帳幕的事，在帳幕的四圍安營。
But thou shalt appoint the Levites over the tabernacle of testimony, and over all the vessels thereof, and over all things that belong to it: they shall bear the tabernacle, and all the vessels thereof; and they shall minister unto it, and shall encamp round about the tabernacle.

1:51    帳幕將往前行的時候，利未人要拆卸。將支搭的時候，利未人要豎起。近前來的外人必被治死。
And when the tabernacle setteth forward, the Levites shall take it down: and when the tabernacle is to be pitched, the Levites shall set it up: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.

1:52    以色列人支搭帳棚，要照他們的軍隊，各歸本營，各歸本纛。
And the children of Israel shall pitch their tents, every man by his own camp, and every man by his own standard, throughout their hosts.

1:53    但利未人要在法櫃帳幕的四圍安營，免得忿怒臨到以色列會眾。利未人並要謹守法櫃的帳幕。
But the Levites shall pitch round about the tabernacle of testimony, that there be no wrath upon the congregation of the children of Israel: and the Levites shall keep the charge of the tabernacle of testimony.

1:54    以色列人就這樣行。凡耶和華所吩咐摩西的，他們就照樣行了。
And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did they.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


2:1    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

2:2    以色列人要各歸自己的纛下，在本族的旗號那裡，對著會幕的四圍安營。
Every man of the children of Israel shall pitch by his own standard, with the ensign of their father's house: far off about the tabernacle of the congregation shall they pitch.

2:3    在東邊，向日出之地，照著軍隊安營的是猶大營的纛。有亞米拿達的兒子拿順作猶大人的首領。
And on the east side toward the rising of the sun shall they of the standard of the camp of Judah pitch throughout their armies: and Nahshon the son of Amminadab shall be captain of the children of Judah.

2:4    他軍隊被數的，共有七萬四千六百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and fourteen thousand and six hundred.

2:5    挨著他安營的是以薩迦支派。有蘇押的兒子拿坦業作以薩迦人的首領。
And those that do pitch next unto him shall be the tribe of Issachar: and Nethaneel the son of Zuar shall be captain of the children of Issachar.

2:6    他軍隊被數的，共有五萬四千四百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and four thousand and four hundred.

2:7    又有西布倫支派。希倫的兒子以利押作西布倫人的首領。
Then the tribe of Zebulun: and Eliab the son of Helon shall be captain of the children of Zebulun.

2:8    他軍隊被數的，共有五萬七千四百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were fifty and seven thousand and four hundred.

2:9    凡屬猶大營，按著軍隊被數的，共有十八萬六千四百名，要作第一隊往前行。
All that were numbered in the camp of Judah were an hundred thousand and fourscore thousand and six thousand and four hundred, throughout their armies. These shall first set forth.

2:10    在南邊，按著軍隊是流便營的纛。有示丟珥的兒子以利蓿作流便人的首領。
On the south side shall be the standard of the camp of Reuben according to their armies: and the captain of the children of Reuben shall be Elizur the son of Shedeur.

2:11    他軍隊被數的，共有四萬六千五百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered thereof, were forty and six thousand and five hundred.

2:12    挨著他安營的是西緬支派。蘇利沙代的兒子示路蔑作西緬人的首領。
And those which pitch by him shall be the tribe of Simeon: and the captain of the children of Simeon shall be Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

2:13    他軍隊被數的，共有五萬九千三百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and nine thousand and three hundred.

2:14    又有迦得支派。丟珥的兒子以利雅薩作迦得人的首領。
Then the tribe of Gad: and the captain of the sons of Gad shall be Eliasaph the son of Reuel.

2:15    他軍隊被數的，共有四萬五千六百五十名，
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and five thousand and six hundred and fifty.

2:16    凡屬流便營，按著軍隊被數的，共有十五萬一千四百五十名，要作第二隊往前行。
All that were numbered in the camp of Reuben were an hundred thousand and fifty and one thousand and four hundred and fifty, throughout their armies. And they shall set forth in the second rank.

2:17    隨後，會幕要往前行，有利未營在諸營中間。他們怎樣安營就怎樣往前行，各按本位，各歸本纛。
Then the tabernacle of the congregation shall set forward with the camp of the Levites in the midst of the camp: as they encamp, so shall they set forward, every man in his place by their standards.

2:18    在西邊，按著軍隊是以法蓮營的纛。亞米忽的兒子以利沙瑪作以法蓮人的首領。
On the west side shall be the standard of the camp of Ephraim according to their armies: and the captain of the sons of Ephraim shall be Elishama the son of Ammihud.

2:19    他軍隊被數的，共有四萬零五百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty thousand and five hundred.

2:20    挨著他的是瑪拿西支派。比大蓿的兒子迦瑪列作瑪拿西人的首領。
And by him shall be the tribe of Manasseh: and the captain of the children of Manasseh shall be Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

2:21    他軍隊被數的，共有三萬二千二百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and two thousand and two hundred.

2:22    又有便雅憫支派。基多尼的兒子亞比但作便雅憫人的首領。
Then the tribe of Benjamin: and the captain of the sons of Benjamin shall be Abidan the son of Gideoni.

2:23    他軍隊被數的，共有三萬五千四百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were thirty and five thousand and four hundred.

2:24    凡屬以法蓮營，按著軍隊被數的，共有十萬零八千一百名，要作第三隊往前行。
All that were numbered of the camp of Ephraim were an hundred thousand and eight thousand and an hundred, throughout their armies. And they shall go forward in the third rank.

2:25    在北邊，按著軍隊是但營的纛。亞米沙代的兒子亞希以謝作但人的首領。
The standard of the camp of Dan shall be on the north side by their armies: and the captain of the children of Dan shall be Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

2:26    他軍隊被數的，共有六萬二千七百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were threescore and two thousand and seven hundred.

2:27    挨著他安營的是亞設支派。俄蘭的兒子帕結作亞設人的首領。
And those that encamp by him shall be the tribe of Asher: and the captain of the children of Asher shall be Pagiel the son of Ocran.

2:28    他軍隊被數的，共有四萬一千五百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were forty and one thousand and five hundred.

2:29    又有拿弗他利支派。以南的兒子亞希拉作拿弗他利人的首領。
Then the tribe of Naphtali: and the captain of the children of Naphtali shall be Ahira the son of Enan.

2:30    他軍隊被數的，共有五萬三千四百名。
And his host, and those that were numbered of them, were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.

2:31    凡但營被數的，共有十五萬七千六百名，要歸本纛作末隊往前行。
All they that were numbered in the camp of Dan were an hundred thousand and fifty and seven thousand and six hundred. They shall go hindmost with their standards.

2:32    這些以色列人，照他們的宗族，按他們的軍隊，在諸營中被數的，共有六十萬零三千五百五十名。
These are those which were numbered of the children of Israel by the house of their fathers: all those that were numbered of the camps throughout their hosts were six hundred thousand and three thousand and five hundred and fifty.

2:33    惟獨利未人沒有數在以色列人中，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
But the Levites were not numbered among the children of Israel; as the LORD commanded Moses.

2:34    以色列人就這樣行，各人照他們的家室，宗族歸於本纛，安營起行，都是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And the children of Israel did according to all that the LORD commanded Moses: so they pitched by their standards, and so they set forward, every one after their families, according to the house of their fathers.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


3:1    耶和華在西奈山曉諭摩西的日子，亞倫和摩西的後代如下，
These also are the generations of Aaron and Moses in the day that the LORD spake with Moses in mount Sinai.

3:2    亞倫的兒子，長子名叫拿答，還有亞比戶，以利亞撒，以他瑪。
And these are the names of the sons of Aaron; Nadab the firstborn, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

3:3    這是亞倫兒子的名字，都是受膏的祭司，是摩西叫他們承接聖職供祭司職分的。
These are the names of the sons of Aaron, the priests which were anointed, whom he consecrated to minister in the priest's office.

3:4    拿答，亞比戶在西奈的曠野向耶和華獻凡火的時候就死在耶和華面前了。他們也沒有兒子。以利亞撒，以他瑪在他們的父親亞倫面前供祭司的職分。
And Nadab and Abihu died before the LORD, when they offered strange fire before the LORD, in the wilderness of Sinai, and they had no children: and Eleazar and Ithamar ministered in the priest's office in the sight of Aaron their father.

3:5    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

3:6    你使利未支派近前來，站在祭司亞倫面前好服事他，
Bring the tribe of Levi near, and present them before Aaron the priest, that they may minister unto him.

3:7    替他和會眾在會幕前守所吩咐的，辦理帳幕的事。
And they shall keep his charge, and the charge of the whole congregation before the tabernacle of the congregation, to do the service of the tabernacle.

3:8    又要看守會幕的器具，並守所吩咐以色列人的，辦理帳幕的事。
And they shall keep all the instruments of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the charge of the children of Israel, to do the service of the tabernacle.



3:9    你要將利未人給亞倫和他的兒子，因為他們是從以色列人中選出來給他的。
And thou shalt give the Levites unto Aaron and to his sons: they are wholly given unto him out of the children of Israel.

3:10    你要囑咐亞倫和他的兒子謹守自己祭司的職任。近前來的外人必被治死。
And thou shalt appoint Aaron and his sons, and they shall wait on their priest's office: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.

3:11    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

3:12    我從以色列人中揀選了利未人，代替以色列人一切頭生的。利未人要歸我。
And I, behold, I have taken the Levites from among the children of Israel instead of all the firstborn that openeth the matrix among the children of Israel: therefore the Levites shall be mine;

3:13    因為凡頭生的是我的。我在埃及地擊殺一切頭生的那日就把以色列中一切頭生的，連人帶牲畜都分別為聖歸我。他們定要屬我。我是耶和華。
Because all the firstborn are mine; for on the day that I smote all the firstborn in the land of Egypt I hallowed unto me all the firstborn in Israel, both man and beast: mine shall they be: I am the LORD.

3:14    耶和華在西奈的曠野曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, saying,

3:15    你要照利未人的宗族，家室數點他們。凡一個月以外的男子都要數點。
Number the children of Levi after the house of their fathers, by their families: every male from a month old and upward shalt thou number them.

3:16    於是摩西照耶和華所吩咐的數點他們。
And Moses numbered them according to the word of the LORD, as he was commanded.

3:17    利未眾子的名字是革順，哥轄，米拉利。
And these were the sons of Levi by their names; Gershon, and Kohath, and Merari.

3:18    革順的兒子，按著家室，是立尼，示每。
And these are the names of the sons of Gershon by their families; Libni, and Shimei.

3:19    哥轄的兒子，按著家室，是暗蘭，以斯哈，希伯倫，烏薛。
And the sons of Kohath by their families; Amram, and Izehar, Hebron, and Uzziel.

3:20    米拉利的兒子，按著家室，是抹利，母示。這些按著宗族是利未人的家室。
And the sons of Merari by their families; Mahli, and Mushi. These are the families of the Levites according to the house of their fathers.

3:21    屬革順的，有立尼族，示每族。這是革順的二族。
Of Gershon was the family of the Libnites, and the family of the Shimites: these are the families of the Gershonites.

3:22    其中被數，從一個月以外所有的男子共有七千五百名。
Those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, even those that were numbered of them were seven thousand and five hundred.

3:23    這革順的二族要在帳幕後西邊安營。
The families of the Gershonites shall pitch behind the tabernacle westward.

3:24    拉伊勒的兒子以利雅薩作革順人宗族的首領。
And the chief of the house of the father of the Gershonites shall be Eliasaph the son of Lael.

3:25    革順的子孫在會幕中所要看守的，就是帳幕和罩棚，並罩棚的蓋與會幕的門簾，
And the charge of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the congregation shall be the tabernacle, and the tent, the covering thereof, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,

3:26    院子的帷子和門簾（院子是圍帳幕和壇的），並一切使用的繩子。
And the hangings of the court, and the curtain for the door of the court, which is by the tabernacle, and by the altar round about, and the cords of it for all the service thereof.

3:27    屬哥轄的，有暗蘭族，以斯哈族，希伯倫族，烏薛族。這是哥轄的諸族。
And of Kohath was the family of the Amramites, and the family of the Izeharites, and the family of the Hebronites, and the family of the Uzzielites: these are the families of the Kohathites.

3:28    按所有男子的數目，從一個月以外看守聖所的，共有八千六百名。
In the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were eight thousand and six hundred, keeping the charge of the sanctuary.

3:29    哥轄兒子的諸族要在帳幕的南邊安營。
The families of the sons of Kohath shall pitch on the side of the tabernacle southward.

3:30    烏薛的兒子以利撒反作哥轄宗族家室的首領。
And the chief of the house of the father of the families of the Kohathites shall be Elizaphan the son of Uzziel.

3:31    他們所要看守的是約櫃，桌子，燈臺，兩座壇與聖所內使用的器皿，並簾子和一切使用之物。
And their charge shall be the ark, and the table, and the candlestick, and the altars, and the vessels of the sanctuary wherewith they minister, and the hanging, and all the service thereof.

3:32    祭司亞倫的兒子以利亞撒作利未人眾首領的領袖，要監察那些看守聖所的人。
And Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest shall be chief over the chief of the Levites, and have the oversight of them that keep the charge of the sanctuary.



3:33    屬米拉利的，有抹利族，母示族。這是米拉利的二族。
Of Merari was the family of the Mahlites, and the family of the Mushites: these are the families of Merari.

3:34    他們被數的，按所有男子的數目，從一個月以外的，共有六千二百名。
And those that were numbered of them, according to the number of all the males, from a month old and upward, were six thousand and two hundred.

3:35    亞比亥的兒子蘇列作米拉利二宗族的首領。他們要在帳幕的北邊安營。
And the chief of the house of the father of the families of Merari was Zuriel the son of Abihail: these shall pitch on the side of the tabernacle northward.

3:36    米拉利子孫的職分是看守帳幕的板，閂，柱子，帶卯的座，和帳幕一切所使用的器具，
And under the custody and charge of the sons of Merari shall be the boards of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and the sockets thereof, and all the vessels thereof, and all that serveth thereto,

3:37    院子四圍的柱子，帶卯的座，橛子，和繩子。
And the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords.

3:38    在帳幕前東邊，向日出之地安營的是摩西，亞倫，和亞倫的兒子。他們看守聖所，替以色列人守耶和華所吩咐的。近前來的外人，必被治死。
But those that encamp before the tabernacle toward the east, even before the tabernacle of the congregation eastward, shall be Moses, and Aaron and his sons, keeping the charge of the sanctuary for the charge of the children of Israel; and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.

3:39    凡被數的利未人，就是摩西，亞倫照耶和華吩咐所數的，按著家室，從一個月以外的男子，共有二萬二千名。
All that were numbered of the Levites, which Moses and Aaron numbered at the commandment of the LORD, throughout their families, all the males from a month old and upward, were twenty and two thousand.

3:40    耶和華對摩西說，你要從以色列人中數點一個月以外，凡頭生的男子，把他們的名字記下。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Number all the firstborn of the males of the children of Israel from a month old and upward, and take the number of their names.

3:41    我是耶和華。你要揀選利未人歸我，代替以色列人所有頭生的，也取利未人的牲畜代替以色列所有頭生的牲畜。
And thou shalt take the Levites for me (I am the LORD) instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel; and the cattle of the Levites instead of all the firstlings among the cattle of the children of Israel.

3:42    摩西就照耶和華所吩咐的把以色列人頭生的都數點了。
And Moses numbered, as the LORD commanded him, all the firstborn among the children of Israel.

3:43    按人名的數目，從一個月以外，凡頭生的男子，共有二萬二千二百七十三名。
And all the firstborn males by the number of names, from a month old and upward, of those that were numbered of them, were twenty and two thousand two hundred and threescore and thirteen.

3:44    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

3:45    你揀選利未人代替以色列人所有頭生的，也取利未人的牲畜代替以色列人的牲畜。利未人要歸我。我是耶和華。
Take the Levites instead of all the firstborn among the children of Israel, and the cattle of the Levites instead of their cattle; and the Levites shall be mine: I am the LORD.

3:46    以色列人中頭生的男子比利未人多二百七十三個，必當將他們贖出來。
And for those that are to be redeemed of the two hundred and threescore and thirteen of the firstborn of the children of Israel, which are more than the Levites;

3:47    你要按人丁，照聖所的平，每人取贖銀五舍客勒（一舍客勒是二十季拉），
Thou shalt even take five shekels apiece by the poll, after the shekel of the sanctuary shalt thou take them: (the shekel is twenty gerahs:)

3:48    把那多餘之人的贖銀交給亞倫和他的兒子。
And thou shalt give the money, wherewith the odd number of them is to be redeemed, unto Aaron and to his sons.

3:49    於是摩西從那被利未人所贖以外的人取了贖銀。
And Moses took the redemption money of them that were over and above them that were redeemed by the Levites:

3:50    從以色列人頭生的所取之銀，按聖所的平，有一千三百六十五舍客勒。
Of the firstborn of the children of Israel took he the money; a thousand three hundred and threescore and five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:

3:51    摩西照耶和華的話把這贖銀給亞倫和他的兒子，正如耶和華所吩咐的。
And Moses gave the money of them that were redeemed unto Aaron and to his sons, according to the word of the LORD, as the LORD commanded Moses.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


4:1    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

4:2    你從利未人中，將哥轄子孫的總數，照他們的家室，宗族，
Take the sum of the sons of Kohath from among the sons of Levi, after their families, by the house of their fathers,

4:3    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡辦事的，全都計算。
From thirty years old and upward even until fifty years old, all that enter into the host, to do the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:4    哥轄子孫在會幕搬運至聖之物，所辦的事乃是這樣，
This shall be the service of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the congregation, about the most holy things:

4:5    起營的時候，亞倫和他兒子要進去摘下遮掩櫃的幔子，用以蒙蓋法櫃，
And when the camp setteth forward, Aaron shall come, and his sons, and they shall take down the covering vail, and cover the ark of testimony with it:

4:6    又用海狗皮蓋在上頭，再蒙上純藍色的毯子，把槓穿上。
And shall put thereon the covering of badgers' skins, and shall spread over it a cloth wholly of blue, and shall put in the staves thereof.

4:7    又用藍色毯子鋪在陳設餅的桌子上，將盤子，調羹，奠酒的爵，和杯擺在上頭。桌子上也必有常設的餅。
And upon the table of shewbread they shall spread a cloth of blue, and put thereon the dishes, and the spoons, and the bowls, and covers to cover withal: and the continual bread shall be thereon:

4:8    在其上又要蒙硃紅色的毯子，再蒙上海狗皮，把槓穿上。
And they shall spread upon them a cloth of scarlet, and cover the same with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put in the staves thereof.

4:9    要拿藍色毯子，把燈臺和燈臺上所用的燈盞，剪子，臘花盤，並一切盛油的器皿，全都遮蓋。
And they shall take a cloth of blue, and cover the candlestick of the light, and his lamps, and his tongs, and his snuffdishes, and all the oil vessels thereof, wherewith they minister unto it:

4:10    又要把燈臺和燈臺的一切器具包在海狗皮裡，放在抬架上。
And they shall put it and all the vessels thereof within a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put it upon a bar.

4:11    在金壇上要鋪藍色毯子，蒙上海狗皮，把槓穿上。
And upon the golden altar they shall spread a cloth of blue, and cover it with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put to the staves thereof:

4:12    又要把聖所用的一切器具包在藍色毯子裡，用海狗皮蒙上，放在抬架上。
And they shall take all the instruments of ministry, wherewith they minister in the sanctuary, and put them in a cloth of blue, and cover them with a covering of badgers' skins, and shall put them on a bar:

4:13    要收去壇上的灰，把紫色毯子鋪在壇上。
And they shall take away the ashes from the altar, and spread a purple cloth thereon:

4:14    又要把所用的一切器具，就是火鼎，肉鍤子，鏟子，盤子，一切屬壇的器具都擺在壇上，又蒙上海狗皮，把槓穿上。
And they shall put upon it all the vessels thereof, wherewith they minister about it, even the censers, the fleshhooks, and the shovels, and the basons, all the vessels of the altar; and they shall spread upon it a covering of badgers' skins, and put to the staves of it.

4:15    將要起營的時候，亞倫和他兒子把聖所和聖所的一切器具遮蓋完了，哥轄的子孫就要來抬，只是不可摸聖物，免得他們死亡。會幕裡這些物件是哥轄子孫所當抬的
And when Aaron and his sons have made an end of covering the sanctuary, and all the vessels of the sanctuary, as the camp is to set forward; after that, the sons of Kohath shall come to bear it: but they shall not touch any holy thing, lest they die. These things are the burden of the sons of Kohath in the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:16    祭司亞倫的兒子以利亞撒所要看守的是點燈的油與香料，並當獻的素祭和膏油，也要看守全帳幕與其中所有的，並聖所和聖所的器具。
And to the office of Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest pertaineth the oil for the light, and the sweet incense, and the daily meat offering, and the anointing oil, and the oversight of all the tabernacle, and of all that therein is, in the sanctuary, and in the vessels thereof.

4:17    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

4:18    你們不可將哥轄人的支派從利未人中剪除。
Cut ye not off the tribe of the families of the Kohathites from among the Levites:

4:19    他們挨近至聖物的時候，亞倫和他兒子要進去派他們各人所當辦的，所當抬的。這樣待他們，好使他們活著，不致死亡。
But thus do unto them, that they may live, and not die, when they approach unto the most holy things: Aaron and his sons shall go in, and appoint them every one to his service and to his burden:

4:20    只是他們連片時不可進去觀看聖所，免得他們死亡。
But they shall not go in to see when the holy things are covered, lest they die.

4:21    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

4:22    你要將革順子孫的總數，照著宗族，家室，
Take also the sum of the sons of Gershon, throughout the houses of their fathers, by their families;

4:23    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡辦事的，全都數點。
From thirty years old and upward until fifty years old shalt thou number them; all that enter in to perform the service, to do the work in the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:24    革順人各族所辦的事，所抬的物乃是這樣，
This is the service of the families of the Gershonites, to serve, and for burdens:

4:25    他們要抬帳幕的幔子和會幕，並會幕的蓋與其上的海狗皮，和會幕的門簾，
And they shall bear the curtains of the tabernacle, and the tabernacle of the congregation, his covering, and the covering of the badgers' skins that is above upon it, and the hanging for the door of the tabernacle of the congregation,

4:26    院子的帷子和門簾（院子是圍帳幕和壇的），繩子，並所用的器具，不論是作什麼用的，他們都要經理。
And the hangings of the court, and the hanging for the door of the gate of the court, which is by the tabernacle and by the altar round about, and their cords, and all the instruments of their service, and all that is made for them: so shall they serve.

4:27    革順的子孫在一切抬物辦事之上都要憑亞倫和他兒子的吩咐。他們所當抬的，要派他們看守。
At the appointment of Aaron and his sons shall be all the service of the sons of the Gershonites, in all their burdens, and in all their service: and ye shall appoint unto them in charge all their burdens.

4:28    這是革順子孫的各族在會幕裡所辦的事。他們所看守的，必在祭司亞倫兒子以他瑪的手下。
This is the service of the families of the sons of Gershon in the tabernacle of the congregation: and their charge shall be under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

4:29    至於米拉利的子孫，你要照著家室，宗族把他們數點。
As for the sons of Merari, thou shalt number them after their families, by the house of their fathers;

4:30    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡辦事的，你都要數點。
From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old shalt thou number them, every one that entereth into the service, to do the work of the tabernacle of the congregation.

4:31    他們辦理會幕的事，就是抬帳幕的板，閂，柱子，和帶卯的座，
And this is the charge of their burden, according to all their service in the tabernacle of the congregation; the boards of the tabernacle, and the bars thereof, and the pillars thereof, and sockets thereof,

4:32    院子四圍的柱子和其上帶卯的座，橛子，繩子，並一切使用的器具。他們所抬的器具，你們要按名指定。
And the pillars of the court round about, and their sockets, and their pins, and their cords, with all their instruments, and with all their service: and by name ye shall reckon the instruments of the charge of their burden.

4:33    這是米拉利子孫各族在會幕裡所辦的事，都在祭司亞倫兒子以他瑪的手下。
This is the service of the families of the sons of Merari, according to all their service, in the tabernacle of the congregation, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

4:34    摩西，亞倫與會眾的諸首領將哥轄的子孫，照著家室，宗族，
And Moses and Aaron and the chief of the congregation numbered the sons of the Kohathites after their families, and after the house of their fathers,

4:35    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡辦事的，都數點了。
From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation:

4:36    被數的共有二千七百五十名。
And those that were numbered of them by their families were two thousand seven hundred and fifty.

4:37    這是哥轄各族中被數的，是在會幕裡辦事的，就是摩西，亞倫照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐數點的。
These were they that were numbered of the families of the Kohathites, all that might do service in the tabernacle of the congregation, which Moses and Aaron did number according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.



4:38    革順子孫被數的，照著家室，宗族，
And those that were numbered of the sons of Gershon, throughout their families, and by the house of their fathers,

4:39    *
From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation,

4:40    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡辦事的，共有二千六百三十名。
Even those that were numbered of them, throughout their families, by the house of their fathers, were two thousand and six hundred and thirty.

4:41    這是革順子孫各族中被數的，是在會幕裡辦事的，就是摩西，亞倫照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐數點的。
These are they that were numbered of the families of the sons of Gershon, of all that might do service in the tabernacle of the congregation, whom Moses and Aaron did number according to the commandment of the LORD.

4:42    米拉利子孫中各族被數的，照著家室，宗族，
And those that were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, throughout their families, by the house of their fathers,

4:43    *
From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that entereth into the service, for the work in the tabernacle of the congregation,

4:44    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡辦事的，共有三千二百名。
Even those that were numbered of them after their families, were three thousand and two hundred.

4:45    這是米拉利子孫各族中被數的，就是摩西，亞倫照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐數點的。
These be those that were numbered of the families of the sons of Merari, whom Moses and Aaron numbered according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

4:46    凡被數的利未人，就是摩西，亞倫並以色列眾首領，照著家室，宗族所數點的，
All those that were numbered of the Levites, whom Moses and Aaron and the chief of Israel numbered, after their families, and after the house of their fathers,

4:47    *
From thirty years old and upward even unto fifty years old, every one that came to do the service of the ministry, and the service of the burden in the tabernacle of the congregation,

4:48    從三十歲直到五十歲，凡前來任職，在會幕裡作抬物之工的，共有八千五百八十名。
Even those that were numbered of them, were eight thousand and five hundred and fourscore.

4:49    摩西按他們所辦的事，所抬的物，憑耶和華的吩咐數點他們。他們這樣被摩西數點，正如耶和華所吩咐他的。
According to the commandment of the LORD they were numbered by the hand of Moses, every one according to his service, and according to his burden: thus were they numbered of him, as the LORD commanded Moses.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


5:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

5:2    你吩咐以色列人，使一切長大麻瘋的，患漏症的，並因死屍不潔淨的，都出營外去。
Command the children of Israel, that they put out of the camp every leper, and every one that hath an issue, and whosoever is defiled by the dead:

5:3    無論男女都要使他們出到營外，免得汙穢他們的營。這營是我所住的。
Both male and female shall ye put out, without the camp shall ye put them; that they defile not their camps, in the midst whereof I dwell.

5:4    以色列人就這樣行，使他們出到營外。耶和華怎樣吩咐摩西，以色列人就怎樣行了。
And the children of Israel did so, and put them out without the camp: as the LORD spake unto Moses, so did the children of Israel.

5:5    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

5:6    你曉諭以色列人說，無論男女，若犯了人所常犯的罪，以致干犯耶和華，那人就有了罪。
Speak unto the children of Israel, When a man or woman shall commit any sin that men commit, to do a trespass against the LORD, and that person be guilty;

5:7    他要承認所犯的罪，將所虧負人的，如數賠還，另外加上五分之一，也歸與所虧負的人。
Then they shall confess their sin which they have done: and he shall recompense his trespass with the principal thereof, and add unto it the fifth part thereof, and give it unto him against whom he hath trespassed.

5:8    那人若沒有親屬可受所賠還的，那所賠還的就要歸與服事耶和華的祭司。至於那為他贖罪的公羊是在外。
But if the man have no kinsman to recompense the trespass unto, let the trespass be recompensed unto the LORD, even to the priest; beside the ram of the atonement, whereby an atonement shall be made for him.

5:9    以色列人一切的聖物中，所奉給祭司的舉祭都要歸與祭司。
And every offering of all the holy things of the children of Israel, which they bring unto the priest, shall be his.

5:10    各人所分別為聖的物，無論是什麼，都要歸給祭司。
And every man's hallowed things shall be his: whatsoever any man giveth the priest, it shall be his.

5:11    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

5:12    你曉諭以色列人說，人的妻若有邪行，得罪她丈夫，
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, If any man's wife go aside, and commit a trespass against him,

5:13    有人與她行淫，事情嚴密，瞞過她丈夫，而且她被玷汙，沒有作見證的人，當她行淫的時候也沒有被捉住，
And a man lie with her carnally, and it be hid from the eyes of her husband, and be kept close, and she be defiled, and there be no witness against her, neither she be taken with the manner;

5:14    她丈夫生了疑恨的心，疑恨她，她是被玷汙，或是她丈夫生了疑恨的心，疑恨她，她並沒有被玷汙，
And the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be defiled: or if the spirit of jealousy come upon him, and he be jealous of his wife, and she be not defiled:

5:15    這人就要將妻送到祭司那裡，又為她帶著大麥面伊法十分之一作供物，不可澆上油，也不可加上乳香。因為這是疑恨的素祭，是思念的素祭，使人思念罪孽。
Then shall the man bring his wife unto the priest, and he shall bring her offering for her, the tenth part of an ephah of barley meal; he shall pour no oil upon it, nor put frankincense thereon; for it is an offering of jealousy, an offering of memorial, bringing iniquity to remembrance.

5:16    祭司要使那婦人近前來，站在耶和華面前。
And the priest shall bring her near, and set her before the LORD:

5:17    祭司要把聖水盛在瓦器裡，又從帳幕的地上取點塵土，放在水中。
And the priest shall take holy water in an earthen vessel; and of the dust that is in the floor of the tabernacle the priest shall take, and put it into the water:

5:18    祭司要叫那婦人蓬頭散發，站在耶和華面前，把思念的素祭，就是疑恨的素祭，放在她手中。祭司手裡拿著致咒詛的苦水，
And the priest shall set the woman before the LORD, and uncover the woman's head, and put the offering of memorial in her hands, which is the jealousy offering: and the priest shall have in his hand the bitter water that causeth the curse:

5:19    要叫婦人起誓，對她說，若沒有人與你行淫，也未曾揹著丈夫作汙穢的事，你就免受這致咒詛苦水的災。
And the priest shall charge her by an oath, and say unto the woman, If no man have lain with thee, and if thou hast not gone aside to uncleanness with another instead of thy husband, be thou free from this bitter water that causeth the curse:

5:20    你若揹著丈夫行了汙穢的事，在你丈夫以外有人與你行淫，
But if thou hast gone aside to another instead of thy husband, and if thou be defiled, and some man have lain with thee beside thine husband:

5:21    （祭司叫婦人發咒起誓），願耶和華叫你大腿消瘦，肚腹發脹，使你在你民中被人咒詛，成了誓語。
Then the priest shall charge the woman with an oath of cursing, and the priest shall say unto the woman, The LORD make thee a curse and an oath among thy people, when the LORD doth make thy thigh to rot, and thy belly to swell;

5:22    並且這致咒詛的水入你的腸中，要叫你的肚腹發脹，大腿消瘦。婦人要回答說，阿們，阿們。
And this water that causeth the curse shall go into thy bowels, to make thy belly to swell, and thy thigh to rot: And the woman shall say, Amen, amen.

5:23    祭司要寫這咒詛的話，將所寫的字抹在苦水裡，
And the priest shall write these curses in a book, and he shall blot them out with the bitter water:

5:24    又叫婦人喝這致咒詛的苦水。這水要進入她裡面變苦了。
And he shall cause the woman to drink the bitter water that causeth the curse: and the water that causeth the curse shall enter into her, and become bitter.

5:25    祭司要從婦人的手中取那疑恨的素祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖，拿到壇前。
Then the priest shall take the jealousy offering out of the woman's hand, and shall wave the offering before the LORD, and offer it upon the altar:

5:26    又要從素祭中取出一把，作為這事的紀念，燒在壇上，然後叫婦人喝這水。
And the priest shall take an handful of the offering, even the memorial thereof, and burn it upon the altar, and afterward shall cause the woman to drink the water.

5:27    叫她喝了以後，她若被玷汙，得罪了丈夫，這致咒詛的水必進入她裡面變苦了，她的肚腹就要發脹，大腿就要消瘦，那婦人便要在他民中被人咒詛。
And when he hath made her to drink the water, then it shall come to pass, that, if she be defiled, and have done trespass against her husband, that the water that causeth the curse shall enter into her, and become bitter, and her belly shall swell, and her thigh shall rot: and the woman shall be a curse among her people.

5:28    若婦人沒有被玷汙，卻是清潔的，就要免受這災，且要懷孕。
And if the woman be not defiled, but be clean; then she shall be free, and shall conceive seed.

5:29    妻子揹著丈夫行了汙穢的事，
This is the law of jealousies, when a wife goeth aside to another instead of her husband, and is defiled;

5:30    或是人生了疑恨的心，疑恨他的妻，就有這疑恨的條例。那時他要叫婦人站在耶和華面前，祭司要在她身上照這條例而行。
Or when the spirit of jealousy cometh upon him, and he be jealous over his wife, and shall set the woman before the LORD, and the priest shall execute upon her all this law.

5:31    男人就為無罪，婦人必擔當自己的罪孽。
Then shall the man be guiltless from iniquity, and this woman shall bear her iniquity.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


6:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:2    你曉諭以色列人說，無論男女許了特別的願，就是拿細耳人的願（拿細耳就是歸主的意思下同），要離俗歸耶和華。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When either man or woman shall separate themselves to vow a vow of a Nazarite, to separate themselves unto the LORD:

6:3    他就要遠離清酒濃酒，也不可喝什麼清酒濃酒作的醋。不可喝什麼葡萄汁，也不可吃鮮葡萄和乾葡萄。
He shall separate himself from wine and strong drink, and shall drink no vinegar of wine, or vinegar of strong drink, neither shall he drink any liquor of grapes, nor eat moist grapes, or dried.

6:4    在一切離俗的日子，凡葡萄樹上結的，自核至皮所作的物，都不可吃。
All the days of his separation shall he eat nothing that is made of the vine tree, from the kernels even to the husk.

6:5    在他一切許願離俗的日子，不可用剃頭刀剃頭，要由發綹長長了。他要聖潔，直到離俗歸耶和華的日子滿了。
All the days of the vow of his separation there shall no razor come upon his head: until the days be fulfilled, in the which he separateth himself unto the LORD, he shall be holy, and shall let the locks of the hair of his head grow.

6:6    在他離俗歸耶和華的一切日子，不可挨近死屍。
All the days that he separateth himself unto the LORD he shall come at no dead body.

6:7    他的父母或是弟兄姊妹死了的時候，他不可因他們使自己不潔淨，因為那離俗歸神的憑據是在他頭上。
He shall not make himself unclean for his father, or for his mother, for his brother, or for his sister, when they die: because the consecration of his God is upon his head.

6:8    在他一切離俗的日子是歸耶和華為聖。
All the days of his separation he is holy unto the LORD.

6:9    若在他旁邊忽然有人死了，以致沾染了他離俗的頭，他要在第七日，得潔淨的時候，剃頭。
And if any man die very suddenly by him, and he hath defiled the head of his consecration; then he shall shave his head in the day of his cleansing, on the seventh day shall he shave it.

6:10    第八日，他要把兩隻斑鳩或兩隻雛鴿帶到會幕門口，交給祭司。
And on the eighth day he shall bring two turtles, or two young pigeons, to the priest, to the door of the tabernacle of the congregation:

6:11    祭司要獻一隻作贖罪祭，一隻作燔祭，為他贖那因死屍而有的罪，並要當日使他的頭成為聖潔。
And the priest shall offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, and make an atonement for him, for that he sinned by the dead, and shall hallow his head that same day.

6:12    他要另選離俗歸耶和華的日子，又要牽一隻一歲的公羊羔來作贖愆祭。但先前的日子要歸徒然，因為他在離俗之間被玷汙了。
And he shall consecrate unto the LORD the days of his separation, and shall bring a lamb of the first year for a trespass offering: but the days that were before shall be lost, because his separation was defiled.

6:13    拿細耳人滿了離俗的日子乃有這條例，人要領他到會幕門口，
And this is the law of the Nazarite, when the days of his separation are fulfilled: he shall be brought unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation:

6:14    他要將供物奉給耶和華，就是一隻沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔作燔祭，一隻沒有殘疾，一歲的母羊羔作贖罪祭，和一隻沒有殘疾的公綿羊作平安祭，
And he shall offer his offering unto the LORD, one he lamb of the first year without blemish for a burnt offering, and one ewe lamb of the first year without blemish for a sin offering, and one ram without blemish for peace offerings,

6:15    並一筐子無酵調油的細麵餅，與抹油的無酵薄餅，並同獻的素祭和奠祭。
And a basket of unleavened bread, cakes of fine flour mingled with oil, and wafers of unleavened bread anointed with oil, and their meat offering, and their drink offerings.

6:16    祭司要在耶和華面前獻那人的贖罪祭和燔祭。
And the priest shall bring them before the LORD, and shall offer his sin offering, and his burnt offering:

6:17    也要把那隻公羊和那筐無酵餅獻給耶和華作平安祭，又要將同獻的素祭和奠祭獻上。
And he shall offer the ram for a sacrifice of peace offerings unto the LORD, with the basket of unleavened bread: the priest shall offer also his meat offering, and his drink offering.

6:18    拿細耳人要在會幕門口剃離俗的頭，把離俗頭上的發放在平安祭下的火上。
And the Nazarite shall shave the head of his separation at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and shall take the hair of the head of his separation, and put it in the fire which is under the sacrifice of the peace offerings.

6:19    他剃了以後，祭司就要取那已煮的公羊一條前腿，又從筐子裡取一個無酵餅和一個無酵薄餅，都放在他手上。
And the priest shall take the sodden shoulder of the ram, and one unleavened cake out of the basket, and one unleavened wafer, and shall put them upon the hands of the Nazarite, after the hair of his separation is shaven:

6:20    祭司要拿這些作為搖祭，在耶和華面前搖一搖。這與所搖的胸，所舉的腿同為聖物，歸給祭司。然後拿細耳人可以喝酒。
And the priest shall wave them for a wave offering before the LORD: this is holy for the priest, with the wave breast and heave shoulder: and after that the Nazarite may drink wine.

6:21    許願的拿細耳人為離俗所獻的供物，和他以外所能得的獻給耶和華，就有這條例。他怎樣許願就當照離俗的條例行。
This is the law of the Nazarite who hath vowed, and of his offering unto the LORD for his separation, beside that that his hand shall get: according to the vow which he vowed, so he must do after the law of his separation.

6:22    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

6:23    你告訴亞倫和他兒子說，你們要這樣為以色列人祝福，說，
Speak unto Aaron and unto his sons, saying, On this wise ye shall bless the children of Israel, saying unto them,

6:24    願耶和華賜福給你，保護你。
The LORD bless thee, and keep thee:

6:25    願耶和華使他的臉光照你，賜恩給你。
The LORD make his face shine upon thee, and be gracious unto thee:

6:26    願耶和華向你仰臉，賜你平安。
The LORD lift up his countenance upon thee, and give thee peace.

6:27    他們要如此奉我的名為以色列人祝福。我也要賜福給他們。
And they shall put my name upon the children of Israel; and I will bless them.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


7:1    摩西立完了帳幕，就把帳幕用膏抹了，使它成聖，又把其中的器具和壇，並壇上的器具，都抹了，使它成聖。
And it came to pass on the day that Moses had fully set up the tabernacle, and had anointed it, and sanctified it, and all the instruments thereof, both the altar and all the vessels thereof, and had anointed them, and sanctified them;

7:2    當天，以色列的眾首領，就是各族的族長，都來奉獻。他們是各支派的首領，管理那些被數的人。
That the princes of Israel, heads of the house of their fathers, who were the princes of the tribes, and were over them that were numbered, offered:

7:3    他們把自己的供物送到耶和華面前，就是六輛篷子車和十二隻公牛。每兩個首領奉獻一輛車，每首領奉獻一隻牛。他們把這些都奉到帳幕前。
And they brought their offering before the LORD, six covered wagons, and twelve oxen; a wagon for two of the princes, and for each one an ox: and they brought them before the tabernacle.

7:4    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,



7:5    你要收下這些，好作會幕的使用，都要照利未人所辦的事交給他們。
Take it of them, that they may be to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation; and thou shalt give them unto the Levites, to every man according to his service.

7:6    於是摩西收了車和牛，交給利未人，
And Moses took the wagons and the oxen, and gave them unto the Levites.

7:7    把兩輛車，四隻牛，照革順子孫所辦的事交給他們，
Two wagons and four oxen he gave unto the sons of Gershon, according to their service:

7:8    又把四輛車，八隻牛，照米拉利子孫所辦的事交給他們。他們都在祭司亞倫的兒子以他瑪手下。
And four wagons and eight oxen he gave unto the sons of Merari, according unto their service, under the hand of Ithamar the son of Aaron the priest.

7:9    但車與牛都沒有交給哥轄子孫。因為他們辦的是聖所的事，在肩頭上抬聖物。
But unto the sons of Kohath he gave none: because the service of the sanctuary belonging unto them was that they should bear upon their shoulders.

7:10    用膏抹壇的日子，首領都來行奉獻壇的禮，眾首領就在壇前獻供物。
And the princes offered for dedicating of the altar in the day that it was anointed, even the princes offered their offering before the altar.

7:11    耶和華對摩西說，眾首領為行奉獻壇的禮，要每天一個首領來獻供物。
And the LORD said unto Moses, They shall offer their offering, each prince on his day, for the dedicating of the altar.

7:12    頭一日獻供物的是猶大支派的亞米拿達的兒子拿順。
And he that offered his offering the first day was Nahshon the son of Amminadab, of the tribe of Judah:

7:13    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
And his offering was one silver charger, the weight thereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them were full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:14    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One spoon of ten shekels of gold, full of incense:

7:15    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:16    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:17    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是亞米拿達兒子拿順的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

7:18    第二日來獻的是以薩迦子孫的首領，蘇押的兒子拿坦業。
On the second day Nethaneel the son of Zuar, prince of Issachar, did offer:

7:19    他獻為供物的是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
He offered for his offering one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:20    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One spoon of gold of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:21    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:22    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:23    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是蘇押兒子拿坦業的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

7:24    第三日來獻的是西布倫子孫的首領，希倫的兒子以利押。
On the third day Eliab the son of Helon, prince of the children of Zebulun, did offer:

7:25    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:26    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:27    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:28    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:29    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是希倫兒子以利押的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Eliab the son of Helon.

7:30    第四日來獻的是流便子孫的首領，示丟珥的兒子以利蓿。
On the fourth day Elizur the son of Shedeur, prince of the children of Reuben, did offer:

7:31    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:32    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:33    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:34    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:35    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是示丟珥的兒子以利蓿的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Elizur the son of Shedeur.

7:36    第五日來獻的是西緬子孫的首領，蘇利沙代的兒子示路蔑。
On the fifth day Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai, prince of the children of Simeon, did offer:

7:37    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:38    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:39    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:40    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:41    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是蘇利沙代兒子示路蔑的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

7:42    第六日來獻的是迦得子孫的首領，丟珥的兒子以利雅薩。
On the sixth day Eliasaph the son of Deuel, prince of the children of Gad, offered:

7:43    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, a silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:44    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:45    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:46    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:47    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是丟珥的兒子以利雅薩的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

7:48    第七日來獻的是以法蓮子孫的首領，亞米忽的兒子以利沙瑪。
On the seventh day Elishama the son of Ammihud, prince of the children of Ephraim, offered:

7:49    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:50    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:51    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:52    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:53    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是亞米忽兒子以利沙瑪的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Elishama the son of Ammihud.

7:54    第八日來獻的是瑪拿西子孫的首領，比大蓿的兒子迦瑪列。
On the eighth day offered Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur, prince of the children of Manasseh:

7:55    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger of the weight of an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:56    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:57    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:58    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:59    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是比大蓿兒子迦瑪列的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

7:60    第九日來獻的是便雅憫子孫的首領，基多尼的兒子亞比但。
On the ninth day Abidan the son of Gideoni, prince of the children of Benjamin, offered:

7:61    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:62    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:63    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:64    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:65    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是基多尼兒子亞比但的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Abidan the son of Gideoni.

7:66    第十日來獻的是但子孫的首領，亞米沙代的兒子亞希以謝。
On the tenth day Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai, prince of the children of Dan, offered:

7:67    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:68    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:69    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:70    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:71    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是亞米沙代兒子亞希以謝的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

7:72    第十一日來獻的是亞設子孫的首領，俄蘭的兒子帕結。
On the eleventh day Pagiel the son of Ocran, prince of the children of Asher, offered:

7:73    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:74    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:75    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:76    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:77    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是俄蘭兒子帕結的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Pagiel the son of Ocran.

7:78    第十二日來獻的是拿弗他利子孫的首領，以南兒子亞希拉。
On the twelfth day Ahira the son of Enan, prince of the children of Naphtali, offered:

7:79    他的供物是，一個銀盤子，重一百三十舍客勒，一個銀碗，重七十舍客勒，都是按聖所的平，也都盛滿了調油的細面作素祭。
His offering was one silver charger, the weight whereof was an hundred and thirty shekels, one silver bowl of seventy shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary; both of them full of fine flour mingled with oil for a meat offering:

7:80    一個金盂，重十舍客勒，盛滿了香。
One golden spoon of ten shekels, full of incense:

7:81    一隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，一隻一歲的公羊羔作燔祭。
One young bullock, one ram, one lamb of the first year, for a burnt offering:

7:82    一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering:

7:83    兩隻公牛，五隻公綿羊，五隻公山羊，五隻一歲的公羊羔作平安祭。這是以南兒子亞希拉的供物。
And for a sacrifice of peace offerings, two oxen, five rams, five he goats, five lambs of the first year: this was the offering of Ahira the son of Enan.

7:84    用膏抹壇的日子，以色列的眾首領為行獻壇之禮所獻的是，銀盤子十二個，銀碗十二個，金盂十二個。
This was the dedication of the altar, in the day when it was anointed, by the princes of Israel: twelve chargers of silver, twelve silver bowls, twelve spoons of gold:

7:85    每盤子重一百三十舍客勒，每碗重七十舍客勒。一切器皿的銀子，按聖所的平，共有二千四百舍客勒。
Each charger of silver weighing an hundred and thirty shekels, each bowl seventy: all the silver vessels weighed two thousand and four hundred shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary:

7:86    十二個金盂盛滿了香，按聖所的平，每盂重十舍客勒，所有的金子共一百二十舍客勒。
The golden spoons were twelve, full of incense, weighing ten shekels apiece, after the shekel of the sanctuary: all the gold of the spoons was an hundred and twenty shekels.

7:87    作燔祭的，共有公牛十二隻，公羊十二隻，一歲的公羊羔十二隻，並同獻的素祭作贖罪祭的公山羊十二隻。
All the oxen for the burnt offering were twelve bullocks, the rams twelve, the lambs of the first year twelve, with their meat offering: and the kids of the goats for sin offering twelve.

7:88    作平安祭的，共有公牛二十四隻，公綿羊六十隻，公山羊六十隻，一歲的公羊羔六十隻。這就是用膏抹壇之後，為行奉獻壇之禮所獻的。
And all the oxen for the sacrifice of the peace offerings were twenty and four bullocks, the rams sixty, the he goats sixty, the lambs of the first year sixty. This was the dedication of the altar, after that it was anointed.

7:89    摩西進會幕要與耶和華說話的時候，聽見法櫃的施恩座以上，二基路伯中間有與他說話的聲音，就是耶和華與他說話。
And when Moses was gone into the tabernacle of the congregation to speak with him, then he heard the voice of one speaking unto him from off the mercy seat that was upon the ark of testimony, from between the two cherubims: and he spake unto him.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

8:2    你告訴亞倫說，點燈的時候，七盞燈都要向燈臺前面發光。
Speak unto Aaron, and say unto him, When thou lightest the lamps, the seven lamps shall give light over against the candlestick.

8:3    亞倫便這樣行。他點燈臺上的燈，使燈向前發光，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And Aaron did so; he lighted the lamps thereof over against the candlestick, as the LORD commanded Moses.

8:4    這燈臺的作法是用金子錘出來的，連座帶花都是錘出來的。摩西製造燈臺，是照耶和華所指示的樣式。
And this work of the candlestick was of beaten gold, unto the shaft thereof, unto the flowers thereof, was beaten work: according unto the pattern which the LORD had shewed Moses, so he made the candlestick.

8:5    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

8:6    你從以色列人中選出利未人來，潔淨他們。
Take the Levites from among the children of Israel, and cleanse them.

8:7    潔淨他們當這樣行，用除罪水彈在他們身上，又叫他們用剃頭刀刮全身，洗衣服，潔淨自己。
And thus shalt thou do unto them, to cleanse them: Sprinkle water of purifying upon them, and let them shave all their flesh, and let them wash their clothes, and so make themselves clean.

8:8    然後叫他
Then let them take a young bullock with his meat offering, even fine flour mingled with oil, and another young bullock shalt thou take for a sin offering.

8:9    將利未人奉到會幕前，招聚以色列全會眾。
And thou shalt bring the Levites before the tabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt gather the whole assembly of the children of Israel together:

8:10    將利未人奉到耶和華面前，以色列人要按手在他們頭上。
And thou shalt bring the Levites before the LORD: and the children of Israel shall put their hands upon the Levites:

8:11    亞倫也將他們奉到耶和華面前，為以色列人當作搖祭，使他們好辦耶和華的事。
And Aaron shall offer the Levites before the LORD for an offering of the children of Israel, that they may execute the service of the LORD.

8:12    利未人要按手在那兩隻牛的頭上。你要將一隻作贖罪祭，一隻作燔祭，獻給耶和華，為利未人贖罪。
And the Levites shall lay their hands upon the heads of the bullocks: and thou shalt offer the one for a sin offering, and the other for a burnt offering, unto the LORD, to make an atonement for the Levites.

8:13    你也要使利未人站在亞倫和他兒子面前，將他們當作搖祭奉給耶和華。
And thou shalt set the Levites before Aaron, and before his sons, and offer them for an offering unto the LORD.

8:14    這樣，你從以色列人中將利未人分別出來，利未人便要歸我。
Thus shalt thou separate the Levites from among the children of Israel: and the Levites shall be mine.

8:15    此後利未人要進去辦會幕的事，你要潔淨他們，將他們當作搖祭奉上。
And after that shall the Levites go in to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation: and thou shalt cleanse them, and offer them for an offering.

8:16    因為他們是從以色列人中全然給我的，我揀選他們歸我，是代替以色列人中一切頭生的。
For they are wholly given unto me from among the children of Israel; instead of such as open every womb, even instead of the firstborn of all the children of Israel, have I taken them unto me.

8:17    以色列人中一切頭生的，連人帶牲畜，都是我的。我在埃及地擊殺一切頭生的那天，將他們分別為聖歸我。
For all the firstborn of the children of Israel are mine, both man and beast: on the day that I smote every firstborn in the land of Egypt I sanctified them for myself.

8:18    我揀選利未人代替以色列人中一切頭生的。
And I have taken the Levites for all the firstborn of the children of Israel.

8:19    我從以色列人中將利未人當作賞賜給亞倫和他的兒子，在會幕中辦以色列人的事，又為以色列人贖罪，免得他們挨近聖所，有災殃臨到他們中間。
And I have given the Levites as a gift to Aaron and to his sons from among the children of Israel, to do the service of the children of Israel in the tabernacle of the congregation, and to make an atonement for the children of Israel: that there be no plague among the children of Israel, when the children of Israel come nigh unto the sanctuary.

8:20    摩西，亞倫，並以色列全會眾便向利未人如此行。凡耶和華指著利未人所吩咐摩西的，以色列人就向他們這樣行。
And Moses, and Aaron, and all the congregation of the children of Israel, did to the Levites according unto all that the LORD commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did the children of Israel unto them.

8:21    於是利未人潔淨自己，除了罪，洗了衣服。亞倫將他們當作搖祭奉到耶和華面前，又為他們贖罪，潔淨他們。
And the Levites were purified, and they washed their clothes; and Aaron offered them as an offering before the LORD; and Aaron made an atonement for them to cleanse them.

8:22    然後利未人進去，在亞倫和他兒子面前，在會幕中辦事。耶和華指著利未人怎樣吩咐摩西，以色列人就怎樣向他們行了。
And after that went the Levites in to do their service in the tabernacle of the congregation before Aaron, and before his sons: as the LORD had commanded Moses concerning the Levites, so did they unto them.

8:23    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

8:24    利未人是這樣，從二十五歲以外，他們要前來任職，辦會幕的事。
This is it that belongeth unto the Levites: from twenty and five years old and upward they shall go in to wait upon the service of the tabernacle of the congregation:

8:25    到了五十歲要停工退任，不再辦事，
And from the age of fifty years they shall cease waiting upon the service thereof, and shall serve no more:

8:26    只要在會幕裡，和他們的弟兄一同伺候，謹守所吩咐的，不再辦事了。至於所吩咐利未人的，你要這樣向他們行。
But shall minister with their brethren in the tabernacle of the congregation, to keep the charge, and shall do no service. Thus shalt thou do unto the Levites touching their charge.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


9:1    以色列人出埃及地以後，第二年正月，耶和華在西奈的曠野吩咐摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses in the wilderness of Sinai, in the first month of the second year after they were come out of the land of Egypt, saying,

9:2    以色列人應當在所定的日期守逾越節，
Let the children of Israel also keep the passover at his appointed season.

9:3    就是本月十四日黃昏的時候，你們要在所定的日期守這節，要按這節的律例典章而守。
In the fourteenth day of this month, at even, ye shall keep it in his appointed season: according to all the rites of it, and according to all the ceremonies thereof, shall ye keep it.

9:4    於是摩西吩咐以色列人守逾越節。
And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, that they should keep the passover.

9:5    他們就在西奈的曠野，正月十四日黃昏的時候，守逾越節。凡耶和華所吩咐摩西的，以色列人都照樣行了。
And they kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month at even in the wilderness of Sinai: according to all that the LORD commanded Moses, so did the children of Israel.

9:6    有幾個人因死屍而不潔淨，不能在那日守逾越節。當日他們到摩西，亞倫面前，
And there were certain men, who were defiled by the dead body of a man, that they could not keep the passover on that day: and they came before Moses and before Aaron on that day:

9:7    說，我們雖因死屍而不潔淨，為何被阻止，不得同以色列人在所定的日期獻耶和華的供物呢，
And those men said unto him, We are defiled by the dead body of a man: wherefore are we kept back, that we may not offer an offering of the LORD in his appointed season among the children of Israel?

9:8    摩西對他們說，你們暫且等候，我可以去聽耶和華指著你們是怎樣吩咐的。
And Moses said unto them, Stand still, and I will hear what the LORD will command concerning you.

9:9    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

9:10    你曉諭以色列人說，你們和你們後代中，若有人因死屍而不潔淨，或在遠方行路，還要向耶和華守逾越節。
Speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If any man of you or of your posterity shall be unclean by reason of a dead body, or be in a journey afar off, yet he shall keep the passover unto the LORD.

9:11    他們要在二月十四日黃昏的時候，守逾越節。要用無酵餅與苦菜，和逾越節的羊羔同吃。
The fourteenth day of the second month at even they shall keep it, and eat it with unleavened bread and bitter herbs.

9:12    一點不可留到早晨。羊羔的骨頭一根也不可折斷。他們要照逾越節的一切律例而守。
They shall leave none of it unto the morning, nor break any bone of it: according to all the ordinances of the passover they shall keep it.

9:13    那潔淨而不行路的人若推辭不守逾越節，那人要從民中剪除。因為他在所定的日期不獻耶和華的供物，應該擔當他的罪。
But the man that is clean, and is not in a journey, and forbeareth to keep the passover, even the same soul shall be cut off from among his people: because he brought not the offering of the LORD in his appointed season, that man shall bear his sin.

9:14    若有外人寄居在你們中間，願意向耶和華守逾越節，他要照逾越節的律例典章行，不管是寄居的是本地人，同歸一例。
And if a stranger shall sojourn among you, and will keep the passover unto the LORD; according to the ordinance of the passover, and according to the manner thereof, so shall he do: ye shall have one ordinance, both for the stranger, and for him that was born in the land.

9:15    立起帳幕的那日，有云彩遮蓋帳幕，就是法櫃的帳幕。從晚上到早晨，雲彩在其上，形狀如火。
And on the day that the tabernacle was reared up the cloud covered the tabernacle, namely, the tent of the testimony: and at even there was upon the tabernacle as it were the appearance of fire, until the morning.

9:16    常是這樣，雲彩遮蓋帳幕，夜間形狀如火。
So it was alway: the cloud covered it by day, and the appearance of fire by night.

9:17    雲彩幾時從帳幕收上去，以色列人就幾時起行。雲彩在哪裡停住，以色列人就在那裡安營。
And when the cloud was taken up from the tabernacle, then after that the children of Israel journeyed: and in the place where the cloud abode, there the children of Israel pitched their tents.

9:18    以色列人遵耶和華的吩咐起行，也遵耶和華的吩咐安營。雲彩在帳幕上停住幾時，他們就住營幾時。
At the commandment of the LORD the children of Israel journeyed, and at the commandment of the LORD they pitched: as long as the cloud abode upon the tabernacle they rested in their tents.

9:19    雲彩在帳幕上停留許多日子，以色列人就守耶和華所吩咐的不起行。
And when the cloud tarried long upon the tabernacle many days, then the children of Israel kept the charge of the LORD, and journeyed not.



9:20    有時雲彩在帳幕上幾天，他們就照耶和華的吩咐住營，也照耶和華的吩咐起行。
And so it was, when the cloud was a few days upon the tabernacle; according to the commandment of the LORD they abode in their tents, and according to the commandment of the LORD they journeyed.

9:21    有時從晚上到早晨，有這雲彩在帳幕上。早晨雲彩收上去，他們就起行。有時晝夜雲彩停在帳幕上，收上去的時候，他們就起行。
And so it was, when the cloud abode from even unto the morning, and that the cloud was taken up in the morning, then they journeyed: whether it was by day or by night that the cloud was taken up, they journeyed.

9:22    雲彩停留在帳幕上，無論是兩天，是一月，是一年，以色列人就住營不起行。但云彩收上去，他們就起行。
Or whether it were two days, or a month, or a year, that the cloud tarried upon the tabernacle, remaining thereon, the children of Israel abode in their tents, and journeyed not: but when it was taken up, they journeyed.

9:23    他們遵耶和華的吩咐安營，也遵耶和華的吩咐起行。他們守耶和華所吩咐的，都是憑耶和華吩咐摩西的。
At the commandment of the LORD they rested in the tents, and at the commandment of the LORD they journeyed: they kept the charge of the LORD, at the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


10:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

10:2    你要用銀子作兩枝號，都要錘出來的，用以招聚會眾，並叫眾營起行。
Make thee two trumpets of silver; of a whole piece shalt thou make them: that thou mayest use them for the calling of the assembly, and for the journeying of the camps.

10:3    吹這號的時候，全會眾要到你那裡，聚集在會幕門口。
And when they shall blow with them, all the assembly shall assemble themselves to thee at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

10:4    若單吹一枝，眾首領，就是以色列軍中的統領，要聚集到你那裡。
And if they blow but with one trumpet, then the princes, which are heads of the thousands of Israel, shall gather themselves unto thee.

10:5    吹出大聲的時候，東邊安的營都要起行。
When ye blow an alarm, then the camps that lie on the east parts shall go forward.

10:6    二次吹出大聲的時候，南邊安的營都要起行。他們將起行，必吹出大聲。
When ye blow an alarm the second time, then the camps that lie on the south side shall take their journey: they shall blow an alarm for their journeys.

10:7    但招聚會眾的時候，你們要吹號，卻不要吹出大聲。
But when the congregation is to be gathered together, ye shall blow, but ye shall not sound an alarm.

10:8    亞倫子孫作祭司的要吹這號。這要作你們世世代代永遠的定例。
And the sons of Aaron, the priests, shall blow with the trumpets; and they shall be to you for an ordinance for ever throughout your generations.

10:9    你們在自己的地，與欺壓你們的敵人打仗，就要用號吹出大聲，便在耶和華你們的神面前得蒙紀念，也蒙拯救脫離仇敵。
And if ye go to war in your land against the enemy that oppresseth you, then ye shall blow an alarm with the trumpets; and ye shall be remembered before the LORD your God, and ye shall be saved from your enemies.

10:10    在你們快樂的日子和節期，並月朔，獻燔祭和平安祭，也要吹號，這都要在你們的神面前作為紀念。我是耶和華你們的神。
Also in the day of your gladness, and in your solemn days, and in the beginnings of your months, ye shall blow with the trumpets over your burnt offerings, and over the sacrifices of your peace offerings; that they may be to you for a memorial before your God: I am the LORD your God.

10:11    第二年二月二十日，雲彩從法櫃的帳幕收上去。
And it came to pass on the twentieth day of the second month, in the second year, that the cloud was taken up from off the tabernacle of the testimony.

10:12    以色列人就按站往前行，離開西奈的曠野，雲彩停住在巴蘭的曠野。
And the children of Israel took their journeys out of the wilderness of Sinai; and the cloud rested in the wilderness of Paran.

10:13    這是他們照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的，初次往前行。
And they first took their journey according to the commandment of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

10:14    按著軍隊首先往前行的是猶大營的纛。統領軍隊的是亞米拿達的兒子拿順。
In the first place went the standard of the camp of the children of Judah according to their armies: and over his host was Nahshon the son of Amminadab.

10:15    統領以薩迦支派軍隊的是蘇押的兒子拿坦業。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Issachar was Nethaneel the son of Zuar.

10:16    統領西布倫支派軍隊的是希倫的兒子以利押。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Zebulun was Eliab the son of Helon.

10:17    帳幕拆卸，革順的子孫和米拉利的子孫就抬著帳幕先往前行。
And the tabernacle was taken down; and the sons of Gershon and the sons of Merari set forward, bearing the tabernacle.

10:18    按著軍隊往前行的是流便營的纛。統領軍隊的是示丟珥的兒子以利蓿。
And the standard of the camp of Reuben set forward according to their armies: and over his host was Elizur the son of Shedeur.

10:19    統領西緬支派軍隊的是蘇利沙代的兒子示路蔑。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Simeon was Shelumiel the son of Zurishaddai.

10:20    統領迦得支派軍隊的是丟珥的兒子以利雅薩。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Gad was Eliasaph the son of Deuel.

10:21    哥轄人抬著聖物先往前行。他們未到以前，抬帳幕的已經把帳幕支好。
And the Kohathites set forward, bearing the sanctuary: and the other did set up the tabernacle against they came.

10:22    按著軍隊往前行的是以法蓮營的纛，統領軍隊的是亞米忽的兒子以利沙瑪。
And the standard of the camp of the children of Ephraim set forward according to their armies: and over his host was Elishama the son of Ammihud.

10:23    統領瑪拿西支派軍隊的是比大蓿的兒子迦瑪列。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Manasseh was Gamaliel the son of Pedahzur.

10:24    統領便雅憫支派軍隊的是基多尼的兒子亞比但。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Benjamin was Abidan the son of Gideoni.

10:25    在諸營末後的是但營的纛，按著軍隊往前行。統領軍隊的是亞米沙代的兒子亞希以謝。
And the standard of the camp of the children of Dan set forward, which was the rereward of all the camps throughout their hosts: and over his host was Ahiezer the son of Ammishaddai.

10:26    統領亞設支派軍隊的是俄蘭的兒子帕結。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Asher was Pagiel the son of Ocran.

10:27    統領拿弗他利支派軍隊的是以南的兒子亞希拉。
And over the host of the tribe of the children of Naphtali was Ahira the son of Enan.

10:28    以色列人按著軍隊往前行，就是這樣。
Thus were the journeyings of the children of Israel according to their armies, when they set forward.

10:29    摩西對他岳父（或作內兄）米甸人流珥的兒子何巴說，我們要行路，往耶和華所應許之地去。他曾說，我要將這地賜給你們。現在求你和我們同去，我們必厚待你，因為耶和華指著以色列人已經應許給好處。
And Moses said unto Hobab, the son of Raguel the Midianite, Moses' father in law, We are journeying unto the place of which the LORD said, I will give it you: come thou with us, and we will do thee good: for the LORD hath spoken good concerning Israel.

10:30    何巴回答說，我不去。我要回本地本族那裡去。
And he said unto him, I will not go; but I will depart to mine own land, and to my kindred.

10:31    摩西說，求你不要離開我們。因為你知道我們要在曠野安營，你可以當作我們的眼目。
And he said, Leave us not, I pray thee; forasmuch as thou knowest how we are to encamp in the wilderness, and thou mayest be to us instead of eyes.

10:32    你若和我們同去，將來耶和華有什麼好處待我們，我們也必以什麼好處待你。
And it shall be, if thou go with us, yea, it shall be, that what goodness the LORD shall do unto us, the same will we do unto thee.

10:33    以色列人離開耶和華的山，往前行了三天的路程。耶和華的約櫃在前頭行了三天的路程，為他們尋梢安歇的地方。
And they departed from the mount of the LORD three days' journey: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD went before them in the three days' journey, to search out a resting place for them.

10:34    他們拔營往前行，日間有耶和華的雲彩在他們以上。
And the cloud of the LORD was upon them by day, when they went out of the camp.

10:35    約櫃往前行的時候，摩西就說，耶和華阿，求你興起。願你的仇敵四散。願恨你的人從你面前逃跑。
And it came to pass, when the ark set forward, that Moses said, Rise up, LORD, and let thine enemies be scattered; and let them that hate thee flee before thee.

10:36    約櫃停住的時候，他就說，耶和華阿，求你回到以色列的千萬人中。
And when it rested, he said, Return, O LORD, unto the many thousands of Israel.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


11:1    眾百姓發怨言，他們的惡語達到耶和華的耳中。耶和華聽見了就怒氣發作，使火在他們中間焚燒，直燒到營的邊界。
And when the people complained, it displeased the LORD: and the LORD heard it; and his anger was kindled; and the fire of the LORD burnt among them, and consumed them that were in the uttermost parts of the camp.

11:2    百姓向摩西哀求，摩西祈求耶和華，火就熄了。
And the people cried unto Moses; and when Moses prayed unto the LORD, the fire was quenched.

11:3    那地方便叫作他備拉，因為耶和華的火燒在他們中間。
And he called the name of the place Taberah: because the fire of the LORD burnt among them.

11:4    他們中間的閒雜人大起貪慾的心。以色列人又哭號說，誰給我們肉吃呢，
And the mixt multitude that was among them fell a lusting: and the children of Israel also wept again, and said, Who shall give us flesh to eat?

11:5    我們記得，在埃及的時候不花錢就吃魚，也記得有黃瓜，西瓜，韭菜，蔥，蒜。
We remember the fish, which we did eat in Egypt freely; the cucumbers, and the melons, and the leeks, and the onions, and the garlick:

11:6    現在我們的心血枯竭了，除這嗎哪以外，在我們眼前並沒有別的東西。
But now our soul is dried away: there is nothing at all, beside this manna, before our eyes.

11:7    這嗎哪彷佛芫荽子，又好像珍珠。
And the manna was as coriander seed, and the colour thereof as the colour of bdellium.

11:8    百姓周圍行走，把嗎哪收起來，或用磨推，或用臼搗，煮在鍋中，又作成餅，滋味好像新油。
And the people went about, and gathered it, and ground it in mills, or beat it in a mortar, and baked it in pans, and made cakes of it: and the taste of it was as the taste of fresh oil.

11:9    夜間露水降在營中，嗎哪也隨著降下。
And when the dew fell upon the camp in the night, the manna fell upon it.

11:10    摩西聽見百姓各在各家的帳棚門口哭號。耶和華的怒氣便大發作，摩西就不喜悅。
Then Moses heard the people weep throughout their families, every man in the door of his tent: and the anger of the LORD was kindled greatly; Moses also was displeased.

11:11    摩西對耶和華說，你為何苦待僕人，我為何不在你眼前蒙恩，竟把這管理百姓的重任加在我身上呢，
And Moses said unto the LORD, Wherefore hast thou afflicted thy servant? and wherefore have I not found favour in thy sight, that thou layest the burden of all this people upon me?

11:12    這百姓豈是我懷的胎，豈是我生下來的呢，你竟對我說，把他們抱在懷裡，如養育之父抱吃奶的孩子，直抱到你起誓應許給他們祖宗的地去。
Have I conceived all this people? have I begotten them, that thou shouldest say unto me, Carry them in thy bosom, as a nursing father beareth the sucking child, unto the land which thou swarest unto their fathers?

11:13    我從哪裡得肉給這百姓吃呢，他們都向我哭號說，你給我們肉吃吧。
Whence should I have flesh to give unto all this people? for they weep unto me, saying, Give us flesh, that we may eat.

11:14    管理這百姓的責任太重了，我獨自擔當不起。
I am not able to bear all this people alone, because it is too heavy for me.

11:15    你這樣待我，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你立時將我殺了，不叫我見自己的苦情。
And if thou deal thus with me, kill me, I pray thee, out of hand, if I have found favour in thy sight; and let me not see my wretchedness.

11:16    耶和華對摩西說，你從以色列的長老中招聚七十個人，就是你所知道作百姓的長老和官長的，到我這裡來，領他們到會幕前，使他們和你一同站立。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Gather unto me seventy men of the elders of Israel, whom thou knowest to be the elders of the people, and officers over them; and bring them unto the tabernacle of the congregation, that they may stand there with thee.

11:17    我要在那裡降臨，與你說話，也要把降於你身上的靈分賜他們，他們就和你同當這管百姓的重任，免得你獨自擔當。
And I will come down and talk with thee there: and I will take of the spirit which is upon thee, and will put it upon them; and they shall bear the burden of the people with thee, that thou bear it not thyself alone.

11:18    又要對百姓說，你們應當自潔，預備明天吃肉，因為你們哭號說，誰給我們肉吃。我們在埃及很好。這聲音達到了耶和華的耳中，所以他必給你們肉吃。
And say thou unto the people, Sanctify yourselves against to morrow, and ye shall eat flesh: for ye have wept in the ears of the LORD, saying, Who shall give us flesh to eat? for it was well with us in Egypt: therefore the LORD will give you flesh, and ye shall eat.

11:19    你們不止吃一天，兩天，五天，十天，二十天，
Ye shall not eat one day, nor two days, nor five days, neither ten days, nor twenty days;

11:20    要吃一個整月，甚至肉從你們鼻孔裡噴出來，使你們厭惡了，因為你們厭棄住在你們中間的耶和華，在他面前哭號說，我們為何出了埃及呢。
But even a whole month, until it come out at your nostrils, and it be loathsome unto you: because that ye have despised the LORD which is among you, and have wept before him, saying, Why came we forth out of Egypt?

11:21    摩西對耶和華說，這與我同住的百姓，步行的男人有六十萬，你還說，我要把肉給他們，使他們可以吃一個整月。
And Moses said, The people, among whom I am, are six hundred thousand footmen; and thou hast said, I will give them flesh, that they may eat a whole month.

11:22    難道給他們宰了羊群牛群，或是把海中所有的魚都聚了來，就夠他們吃嗎，
Shall the flocks and the herds be slain for them, to suffice them? or shall all the fish of the sea be gathered together for them, to suffice them?

11:23    耶和華對摩西說，耶和華的膀臂豈是縮短了嗎，現在要看我的話向你應驗不應驗。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Is the LORD's hand waxed short? thou shalt see now whether my word shall come to pass unto thee or not.

11:24    摩西出去，將耶和華的話告訴百姓，又招聚百姓的長老中七十個人來，使他們站在會幕的四圍。
And Moses went out, and told the people the words of the LORD, and gathered the seventy men of the elders of the people, and set them round about the tabernacle.

11:25    耶和華在雲中降臨，對摩西說話，把降與他身上的靈分賜那七十個長老。靈停在他們身上的時候，他們就受感說話，以後卻沒有再說。
And the LORD came down in a cloud, and spake unto him, and took of the spirit that was upon him, and gave it unto the seventy elders: and it came to pass, that, when the spirit rested upon them, they prophesied, and did not cease.

11:26    但有兩個人仍在營裡，一個名叫伊利達，一個名叫米達。他們本是在那些被錄的人中，卻沒有到會幕那裡去。靈停在他們身上，他們就在營裡說預言。
But there remained two of the men in the camp, the name of the one was Eldad, and the name of the other Medad: and the spirit rested upon them; and they were of them that were written, but went not out unto the tabernacle: and they prophesied in the camp.

11:27    有個少年人跑來告訴摩西說，伊利達，米達在營裡說預言。
And there ran a young man, and told Moses, and said, Eldad and Medad do prophesy in the camp.

11:28    摩西的幫手，嫩的兒子約書亞，就是摩西所揀選的一個人，說，請我主摩西禁止他們。
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of Moses, one of his young men, answered and said, My lord Moses, forbid them.

11:29    摩西對他說，你為我的緣故嫉妒人嗎，惟願耶和華的百姓都受感說話。願耶和華把他的靈降在他們身上。
And Moses said unto him, Enviest thou for my sake? would God that all the LORD's people were prophets, and that the LORD would put his spirit upon them!

11:30    於是，摩西和以色列的長老都回到營裡去。
And Moses gat him into the camp, he and the elders of Israel.

11:31    有風從耶和華那裡颳起，把鵪鶉由海面刮來，飛散在營邊和營的四圍。這邊約有一天的路程，那邊約有一天的路程，離地面約有二肘。
And there went forth a wind from the LORD, and brought quails from the sea, and let them fall by the camp, as it were a day's journey on this side, and as it were a day's journey on the other side, round about the camp, and as it were two cubits high upon the face of the earth.

11:32    百姓起來，終日終夜，並次日一整天，捕取鵪鶉。至少的也取了十賀梅珥，為自己擺列在營的四圍。
And the people stood up all that day, and all that night, and all the next day, and they gathered the quails: he that gathered least gathered ten homers: and they spread them all abroad for themselves round about the camp.

11:33    肉在他們牙齒之間尚未嚼爛，耶和華的怒氣就向他們發作，用最重的災殃擊殺了他們。
And while the flesh was yet between their teeth, ere it was chewed, the wrath of the LORD was kindled against the people, and the LORD smote the people with a very great plague.

11:34    那地方便叫作基博羅哈他瓦（就是貪慾之人的墳墓），因為他們在那裡葬埋那起貪慾之心的人。
And he called the name of that place Kibrothhattaavah: because there they buried the people that lusted.

11:35    百姓從基博羅哈他瓦走到哈洗錄，就住在哈洗錄。
And the people journeyed from Kibrothhattaavah unto Hazeroth; and abode at Hazeroth.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


12:1    摩西娶了古實女子為妻。米利暗和亞倫因他所娶的古實女子就毀謗他，
And Miriam and Aaron spake against Moses because of the Ethiopian woman whom he had married: for he had married an Ethiopian woman.

12:2    說，難道耶和華單與摩西說話，不也與我們說話嗎，這話耶和華聽見了。
And they said, Hath the LORD indeed spoken only by Moses? hath he not spoken also by us? And the LORD heard it.



12:3    摩西為人極其謙和，勝過世上的眾人。
(Now the man Moses was very meek, above all the men which were upon the face of the earth.)

12:4    耶和華忽然對摩西，亞倫，米利暗說，你們三個人都出來，到會幕這裡。他們三個人就出來了。
And the LORD spake suddenly unto Moses, and unto Aaron, and unto Miriam, Come out ye three unto the tabernacle of the congregation. And they three came out.

12:5    耶和華在雲柱中降臨，站在會幕門口，召亞倫和米利暗，二人就出來了。
And the LORD came down in the pillar of the cloud, and stood in the door of the tabernacle, and called Aaron and Miriam: and they both came forth.

12:6    耶和華說，你們且聽我的話，你們中間若有先知，我耶和華必在異象中向他顯現，在夢中與他說話。
And he said, Hear now my words: If there be a prophet among you, I the LORD will make myself known unto him in a vision, and will speak unto him in a dream.

12:7    我的僕人摩西不是這樣。他是在我全家盡忠的。
My servant Moses is not so, who is faithful in all mine house.

12:8    我要與他面對面說話，乃是明說，不用謎語，並且他必見我的形像。你們毀謗我的僕人摩西，為何不懼怕呢，
With him will I speak mouth to mouth, even apparently, and not in dark speeches; and the similitude of the LORD shall he behold: wherefore then were ye not afraid to speak against my servant Moses?

12:9    耶和華就向他們二人發怒而去。
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against them; and he departed.

12:10    雲彩從會幕上挪開了，不料，米利暗長了大麻瘋，有雪那樣白。亞倫一看米利暗長了大麻瘋，
And the cloud departed from off the tabernacle; and, behold, Miriam became leprous, white as snow: and Aaron looked upon Miriam, and, behold, she was leprous.

12:11    就對摩西說，我主阿，求你不要因我們愚昧犯罪，便將這罪加在我們身上。
And Aaron said unto Moses, Alas, my lord, I beseech thee, lay not the sin upon us, wherein we have done foolishly, and wherein we have sinned.

12:12    求你不要使她像那出母腹，肉已半爛的死胎。
Let her not be as one dead, of whom the flesh is half consumed when he cometh out of his mother's womb.

12:13    於是摩西哀求耶和華說，神阿，求你醫治她。
And Moses cried unto the LORD, saying, Heal her now, O God, I beseech thee.

12:14    耶和華對摩西說，她父親若吐唾沫在她臉上，她豈不蒙羞七天嗎，現在要把她在營外關鎖七天，然後才可以領她進來。
And the LORD said unto Moses, If her father had but spit in her face, should she not be ashamed seven days? let her be shut out from the camp seven days, and after that let her be received in again.

12:15    於是米利暗關鎖在營外七天。百姓沒有行路，直等到把米利暗領進來。
And Miriam was shut out from the camp seven days: and the people journeyed not till Miriam was brought in again.

12:16    以後百姓從哈洗錄起行，在巴蘭的曠野安營。
And afterward the people removed from Hazeroth, and pitched in the wilderness of Paran.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


13:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

13:2    你打發人去窺探我所賜給以色列人的迦南地，他們每支派中要打發一個人，都要作首領的。
Send thou men, that they may search the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel: of every tribe of their fathers shall ye send a man, every one a ruler among them.

13:3    摩西就照耶和華的吩咐從巴蘭的曠野打發他們去。他們都是以色列人的族長。
And Moses by the commandment of the LORD sent them from the wilderness of Paran: all those men were heads of the children of Israel.

13:4    他們的名字，屬流便支派的有撒刻的的兒子沙母亞。
And these were their names: of the tribe of Reuben, Shammua the son of Zaccur.

13:5    屬西緬支派的有何利的兒子的沙法。
Of the tribe of Simeon, Shaphat the son of Hori.

13:6    屬猶大支派的有耶孚尼的兒子迦勒。
Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

13:7    屬以薩迦支派的有約色的兒子以迦。
Of the tribe of Issachar, Igal the son of Joseph.

13:8    屬以法蓮支派的有嫩的兒子何希阿。
Of the tribe of Ephraim, Oshea the son of Nun.

13:9    屬便雅憫支派的有拉孚的兒子帕提。
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Palti the son of Raphu.

13:10    屬西布倫支派的有梭底的兒子迦疊。
Of the tribe of Zebulun, Gaddiel the son of Sodi.

13:11    約瑟的子孫，屬瑪拿西支派的有穌西的兒子迦底。
Of the tribe of Joseph, namely, of the tribe of Manasseh, Gaddi the son of Susi.

13:12    屬但支派的有基瑪利的兒子亞米利。
Of the tribe of Dan, Ammiel the son of Gemalli.

13:13    屬亞設支派的有米迦勒的兒子西帖。
Of the tribe of Asher, Sethur the son of Michael.

13:14    屬拿弗他利支派的有縛西的兒子拿比。
Of the tribe of Naphtali, Nahbi the son of Vophsi.

13:15    屬迦得支派的有瑪基的兒子臼利。
Of the tribe of Gad, Geuel the son of Machi.

13:16    這就是摩西所打發，窺探那地之人的名字。摩西就稱嫩的兒子何希阿為約書亞。
These are the names of the men which Moses sent to spy out the land. And Moses called Oshea the son of Nun Jehoshua.

13:17    摩西打發他們去窺探迦南地，說，你們從南地上山地去，
And Moses sent them to spy out the land of Canaan, and said unto them, Get you up this way southward, and go up into the mountain:

13:18    看那地如何，其中所住的民是強是弱，是多是少，
And see the land, what it is; and the people that dwelleth therein, whether they be strong or weak, few or many;

13:19    所住之處是好是歹，所住之處是營盤是堅城。
And what the land is that they dwell in, whether it be good or bad; and what cities they be that they dwell in, whether in tents, or in strong holds;

13:20    又看那地土是肥美是瘠薄，其中有樹木沒有。你們要放開膽量，把那地的果子帶些來。（那時正是葡萄初熟的時候。）
And what the land is, whether it be fat or lean, whether there be wood therein, or not. And be ye of good courage, and bring of the fruit of the land. Now the time was the time of the firstripe grapes.

13:21    他們上去窺探那地，從尋的曠野到利合，直到哈馬口。
So they went up, and searched the land from the wilderness of Zin unto Rehob, as men come to Hamath.

13:22    他們從南地上去，到了希伯侖。在那裡有亞衲族人亞希幔，示篩，撻買。原來希伯侖城被建造比埃及的鎖安城早七年。）
And they ascended by the south, and came unto Hebron; where Ahiman, Sheshai, and Talmai, the children of Anak, were. (Now Hebron was built seven years before Zoan in Egypt.)

13:23    他們到了以實各谷，從那裡砍了葡萄樹的一枝，上頭有一掛葡萄，兩個人用槓抬著，又帶了些石榴和無花果來。
And they came unto the brook of Eshcol, and cut down from thence a branch with one cluster of grapes, and they bare it between two upon a staff; and they brought of the pomegranates, and of the figs.

13:24    因為以色列人從那裡砍來的那掛葡萄，所以那地方叫作以實各谷。）
The place was called the brook Eshcol, because of the cluster of grapes which the children of Israel cut down from thence.

13:25    過了四十天，他們窺探那地才回來，
And they returned from searching of the land after forty days.

13:26    到了巴蘭曠野的加低斯，見摩西，亞倫，並以色列的全會眾，回報摩西，亞倫，並全會眾，又把那地的果子給他們看。
And they went and came to Moses, and to Aaron, and to all the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the wilderness of Paran, to Kadesh; and brought back word unto them, and unto all the congregation, and shewed them the fruit of the land.

13:27    又告訴摩西說，我們到了你所打發我們去的那地，果然是流奶與蜜之地。這就是那地的果子。
And they told him, and said, We came unto the land whither thou sentest us, and surely it floweth with milk and honey; and this is the fruit of it.

13:28    然而住那地的民強壯，城邑也堅固寬大，並且我們在那裡看見了亞衲族的人。
Nevertheless the people be strong that dwell in the land, and the cities are walled, and very great: and moreover we saw the children of Anak there.

13:29    亞瑪力人住在南地。赫人，耶布斯人，亞摩利人住在山地。迦南人住在海邊並約旦河旁。
The Amalekites dwell in the land of the south: and the Hittites, and the Jebusites, and the Amorites, dwell in the mountains: and the Canaanites dwell by the sea, and by the coast of Jordan.

13:30    迦勒在摩西面前安撫百姓，說，我們立刻上去得那地吧。我們足能得勝。
And Caleb stilled the people before Moses, and said, Let us go up at once, and possess it; for we are well able to overcome it.

13:31    但那些和他同去的人說，我們不能上去攻擊那民，因為他們比我們強壯。
But the men that went up with him said, We be not able to go up against the people; for they are stronger than we.

13:32    探子中有人論到所窺探之地，向以色列人報惡信，說，我們所窺探，經過之地是吞吃居民之地，我們在那裡所看見的人民都身量高大。
And they brought up an evil report of the land which they had searched unto the children of Israel, saying, The land, through which we have gone to search it, is a land that eateth up the inhabitants thereof; and all the people that we saw in it are men of a great stature.

13:33    我們在那裡看見亞衲族人，就是偉人。他們是偉人的後裔。據我們看，自己就如蚱蜢一樣。據他們看，我們也是如此。
And there we saw the giants, the sons of Anak, which come of the giants: and we were in our own sight as grasshoppers, and so we were in their sight.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


14:1    當下，全會眾大聲喧囔。那夜百姓都哭號。
And all the congregation lifted up their voice, and cried; and the people wept that night.

14:2    以色列眾人向摩西，亞倫發怨言。全會眾對他們說，巴不得我們早死在埃及地，或是死在這曠野。
And all the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron: and the whole congregation said unto them, Would God that we had died in the land of Egypt! or would God we had died in this wilderness!

14:3    耶和華為什麼把我們領到那地，使我們倒在刀下呢，我們的妻子和孩子必被擄掠。我們回埃及去豈不好嗎，
And wherefore hath the LORD brought us unto this land, to fall by the sword, that our wives and our children should be a prey? were it not better for us to return into Egypt?

14:4    眾人彼此說，我們不如立一個首領回埃及去吧。
And they said one to another, Let us make a captain, and let us return into Egypt.

14:5    摩西，亞倫就俯伏在以色列全會眾面前。
Then Moses and Aaron fell on their faces before all the assembly of the congregation of the children of Israel.

14:6    窺探地的人中，嫩的兒子約書亞和耶孚尼的兒子迦勒撕裂衣服，
And Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which were of them that searched the land, rent their clothes:

14:7    對以色列全會眾說，我們所窺探，經過之地是極美之地。
And they spake unto all the company of the children of Israel, saying, The land, which we passed through to search it, is an exceeding good land.

14:8    耶和華若喜悅我們，就必將我們領進那地，把地賜給我們。那地原是流奶與蜜之地。
If the LORD delight in us, then he will bring us into this land, and give it us; a land which floweth with milk and honey.

14:9    但你們不可背叛耶和華，也不要怕那地的居民。因為他們是我們的食物，並且蔭庇他們的已經離開他們。有耶和華與我們同在，不要怕他們。
Only rebel not ye against the LORD, neither fear ye the people of the land; for they are bread for us: their defence is departed from them, and the LORD is with us: fear them not.

14:10    但全會眾說，拿石頭打死他們二人。忽然，耶和華的榮光在會幕中向以色列眾人顯現。
But all the congregation bade stone them with stones. And the glory of the LORD appeared in the tabernacle of the congregation before all the children of Israel.

14:11    耶和華對摩西說，這百姓藐視我要到幾時呢，我在他們中間行了這一切神蹟，他們還不信我要到幾時呢，
And the LORD said unto Moses, How long will this people provoke me? and how long will it be ere they believe me, for all the signs which I have shewed among them?



14:12    我要用瘟疫擊殺他們，使他們不得承受那地，叫你的後裔成為大國，比他們強勝。
I will smite them with the pestilence, and disinherit them, and will make of thee a greater nation and mightier than they.

14:13    摩西對耶和華說，埃及人必聽見這事。因為你曾施展大能，將這百姓從他們中間領上來。
And Moses said unto the LORD, Then the Egyptians shall hear it, (for thou broughtest up this people in thy might from among them;)

14:14    埃及人要將這事傳給迦南地的居民。那民已經聽見你耶和華是在這百姓中間。因為你面對面被人看見，有你的雲彩停在他們以上。你日間在雲柱中，夜間在火柱中，在他們前面行。
And they will tell it to the inhabitants of this land: for they have heard that thou LORD art among this people, that thou LORD art seen face to face, and that thy cloud standeth over them, and that thou goest before them, by day time in a pillar of a cloud, and in a pillar of fire by night.

14:15    如今你若把這百姓殺了，如殺一人，那些聽見你名聲的列邦必議論說，
Now if thou shalt kill all this people as one man, then the nations which have heard the fame of thee will speak, saying,

14:16    耶和華因為不能把這百姓領進他向他們起誓應許之地，所以在曠野把他們殺了。
Because the LORD was not able to bring this people into the land which he sware unto them, therefore he hath slain them in the wilderness.

14:17    現在求主大顯能力，照你所說過的話說，
And now, I beseech thee, let the power of my LORD be great, according as thou hast spoken, saying,

14:18    耶和華不輕易發怒，並有豐盛的慈愛，赦免罪孽和過犯。萬不以有罪的為無罪，必追討他的罪，自父及子，直到三，四代。
The LORD is longsuffering, and of great mercy, forgiving iniquity and transgression, and by no means clearing the guilty, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation.

14:19    求你照你的大慈愛赦免這百姓的罪孽，好像你從埃及到如今常赦免他們一樣。
Pardon, I beseech thee, the iniquity of this people according unto the greatness of thy mercy, and as thou hast forgiven this people, from Egypt even until now.

14:20    耶和華說，我照著你的話赦免了他們。
And the LORD said, I have pardoned according to thy word:

14:21    然我指著我的永生起誓，遍地要被我的榮耀充滿。
But as truly as I live, all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the LORD.

14:22    這些人雖看見我的榮耀和我在埃及與曠野所行的神蹟，仍然試探我這十次，不聽從我的話，
Because all those men which have seen my glory, and my miracles, which I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and have tempted me now these ten times, and have not hearkened to my voice;

14:23    他們斷不得看見我向他們的祖宗所起誓應許之地。凡藐視我的，一個也不得看見。
Surely they shall not see the land which I sware unto their fathers, neither shall any of them that provoked me see it:

14:24    惟獨我的僕人迦勒，因他另有一個心志，專一跟從我，我就把他領進他所去過的那地。他的後裔也必得那地為業。
But my servant Caleb, because he had another spirit with him, and hath followed me fully, him will I bring into the land whereinto he went; and his seed shall possess it.

14:25    亞瑪力人和迦南人住在谷中，明天你們要轉回，從紅海的路往曠野去。
(Now the Amalekites and the Canaanites dwelt in the valley.) Tomorrow turn you, and get you into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea.

14:26    耶和華對摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

14:27    這惡會眾向我發怨言，我忍耐他們要到幾時呢，以色列人向我所發的怨言，我都聽見了。
How long shall I bear with this evil congregation, which murmur against me? I have heard the murmurings of the children of Israel, which they murmur against me.

14:28    你們告訴他們，耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我必要照你們達到我耳中的話待你們。
Say unto them, As truly as I live, saith the LORD, as ye have spoken in mine ears, so will I do to you:

14:29    你們的屍首必倒在這曠野，並且你們中間凡被數點，從二十歲以外，向我發怨言的，
Your carcases shall fall in this wilderness; and all that were numbered of you, according to your whole number, from twenty years old and upward, which have murmured against me,

14:30    必不得進我起誓應許叫你們住的那地。惟有耶孚尼的兒子迦勒和嫩的兒子約書亞才能進去。
Doubtless ye shall not come into the land, concerning which I sware to make you dwell therein, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.

14:31    但你們的婦人孩子，就是你們所說，要被擄掠的，我必把他們領進去，他們就得知你們所厭棄的那地。
But your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, them will I bring in, and they shall know the land which ye have despised.

14:32    至於你們，你們的屍首必倒在這曠野。
But as for you, your carcases, they shall fall in this wilderness.

14:33    你們的兒女必在曠野飄流四十年，擔當你們淫行的罪，直到你們的屍首在曠野消滅。
And your children shall wander in the wilderness forty years, and bear your whoredoms, until your carcases be wasted in the wilderness.

14:34    按你們窺探那地的四十日，一年頂一日，你們要擔當罪孽四十年，就知道我與你們疏遠了，
After the number of the days in which ye searched the land, even forty days, each day for a year, shall ye bear your iniquities, even forty years, and ye shall know my breach of promise.

14:35    我耶和華說過，我總要這樣待這一切聚集敵我的惡會眾。他們必在這曠野消滅，在這裡死亡。
I the LORD have said, I will surely do it unto all this evil congregation, that are gathered together against me: in this wilderness they shall be consumed, and there they shall die.

14:36    摩西所打發，窺探那地的人回來，報那地的惡信，叫全會眾向摩西發怨言，
And the men, which Moses sent to search the land, who returned, and made all the congregation to murmur against him, by bringing up a slander upon the land,

14:37    這些報惡信的人都遭瘟疫，死在耶和華面前。
Even those men that did bring up the evil report upon the land, died by the plague before the LORD.

14:38    其中惟有嫩的兒子約書亞和耶孚尼的兒子迦勒仍然存活。
But Joshua the son of Nun, and Caleb the son of Jephunneh, which were of the men that went to search the land, lived still.

14:39    摩西將這些話告訴以色列眾人，他們就甚悲哀。
And Moses told these sayings unto all the children of Israel: and the people mourned greatly.

14:40    清早起來，上山頂去，說，我們在這裡，我們有罪了。情願上耶和華所應許的地方去。
And they rose up early in the morning, and gat them up into the top of the mountain, saying, Lo, we be here, and will go up unto the place which the LORD hath promised: for we have sinned.

14:41    摩西說，你們為何違背耶和華的命令呢，這事不能順利了。
And Moses said, Wherefore now do ye transgress the commandment of the LORD? but it shall not prosper.

14:42    不要上去。因為耶和華不在你們中間，恐怕你們被仇敵殺敗了。
Go not up, for the LORD is not among you; that ye be not smitten before your enemies.

14:43    亞瑪力人和迦南人都在你們面前，你們必倒在刀下。因你們退回不跟從耶和華，所以他必不與你們同在。
For the Amalekites and the Canaanites are there before you, and ye shall fall by the sword: because ye are turned away from the LORD, therefore the LORD will not be with you.

14:44    他們卻擅敢上山頂去，然而耶和華的約櫃和摩西沒有出營。
But they presumed to go up unto the hill top: nevertheless the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and Moses, departed not out of the camp.

14:45    於是亞瑪力人和住在那山上的迦南人都下來擊打他們，把他們殺退了，直到何珥瑪。
Then the Amalekites came down, and the Canaanites which dwelt in that hill, and smote them, and discomfited them, even unto Hormah.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


15:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

15:2    你曉諭以色列人說，你們到了我所賜給你們居住的地，
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come into the land of your habitations, which I give unto you,

15:3    若願意從牛群羊群中取牛羊作火祭，獻給耶和華，無論是燔祭是平安祭，為要還特許的願，或是作甘心祭，或是逢你們節期獻的，都要奉給耶和華為馨香之祭。
And will make an offering by fire unto the LORD, a burnt offering, or a sacrifice in performing a vow, or in a freewill offering, or in your solemn feasts, to make a sweet savour unto the LORD, of the herd, or of the flock:

15:4    那獻供物的就要將細面伊法十分之一，並油一欣四分之一，調和作素祭，獻給耶和華。
Then shall he that offereth his offering unto the LORD bring a meat offering of a tenth deal of flour mingled with the fourth part of an hin of oil.

15:5    無論是燔祭是平安祭，你要為每隻綿羊羔，一同預備奠祭的酒一欣四分之一。
And the fourth part of an hin of wine for a drink offering shalt thou prepare with the burnt offering or sacrifice, for one lamb.

15:6    為公綿羊預備細面伊法十分之二，並油一欣三分之一，調和作素祭，
Or for a ram, thou shalt prepare for a meat offering two tenth deals of flour mingled with the third part of an hin of oil.

15:7    又用酒一欣三分之一作奠祭，獻給耶和華為馨香之祭。
And for a drink offering thou shalt offer the third part of an hin of wine, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:8    你預備公牛作燔祭，或是作平安祭，為要還特許的願，或是作平安祭，獻給耶和華，
And when thou preparest a bullock for a burnt offering, or for a sacrifice in performing a vow, or peace offerings unto the LORD:

15:9    就要把細面伊法十分之三，並油半欣，調和作素祭，和公牛一同獻上，
Then shall he bring with a bullock a meat offering of three tenth deals of flour mingled with half an hin of oil.

15:10    又用酒半欣作奠祭，獻給耶和華為馨香的火祭。
And thou shalt bring for a drink offering half an hin of wine, for an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:11    獻公牛，公綿羊，綿羊羔，山羊羔，每隻都要這樣辦理。
Thus shall it be done for one bullock, or for one ram, or for a lamb, or a kid.

15:12    照你們所預備的數目，按著只數都要這樣辦理。
According to the number that ye shall prepare, so shall ye do to every one according to their number.

15:13    凡本地人將馨香的火祭獻給耶和華，都要這樣辦理。
All that are born of the country shall do these things after this manner, in offering an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

15:14    若有外人和你們同居，或有人世世代代住在你們中間，願意將馨香的火祭獻給耶和華，你們怎樣辦理，他也要照樣辦理。
And if a stranger sojourn with you, or whosoever be among you in your generations, and will offer an offering made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; as ye do, so he shall do.

15:15    至於會眾，你們和同居的外人都歸一例，作為你們世世代代永遠的定例，在耶和華面前，你們怎樣，寄居的也要怎樣。
One ordinance shall be both for you of the congregation, and also for the stranger that sojourneth with you, an ordinance for ever in your generations: as ye are, so shall the stranger be before the LORD.

15:16    你們並與你們同居的外人當有一樣的條例，一樣的典章。
One law and one manner shall be for you, and for the stranger that sojourneth with you.

15:17    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

15:18    你曉諭以色列人說，你們到了我所領你們進去的那地，
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land whither I bring you,

15:19    吃那地的糧食，就要把舉祭獻給耶和華。
Then it shall be, that, when ye eat of the bread of the land, ye shall offer up an heave offering unto the LORD.

15:20    你們要用初熟的麥子磨面，作餅當舉祭奉獻。你們舉上，好像舉禾場的舉祭一樣，
Ye shall offer up a cake of the first of your dough for an heave offering: as ye do the heave offering of the threshingfloor, so shall ye heave it.

15:21    你們世世代代要用初熟的麥子磨面，當舉祭獻給耶和華。
Of the first of your dough ye shall give unto the LORD an heave offering in your generations.

15:22    你們有錯誤的時候，不守耶和華所曉諭摩西的這一切命令，
And if ye have erred, and not observed all these commandments, which the LORD hath spoken unto Moses,

15:23    就是耶和華藉摩西一切所吩咐你們的，自那日以至你們的世世代代，
Even all that the LORD hath commanded you by the hand of Moses, from the day that the LORD commanded Moses, and henceforward among your generations;

15:24    若有誤行，是會眾所不知道的，後來全會眾就要將一隻公牛犢作燔祭，並照典章把素祭和奠祭一同獻給耶和華為馨香之祭，又獻一隻公山羊作贖罪祭。
Then it shall be, if ought be committed by ignorance without the knowledge of the congregation, that all the congregation shall offer one young bullock for a burnt offering, for a sweet savour unto the LORD, with his meat offering, and his drink offering, according to the manner, and one kid of the goats for a sin offering.

15:25    祭司要為以色列全會眾贖罪，他們就必蒙赦免，因為這是錯誤。他們又因自己的錯誤，把供物，就是向耶和華獻的火祭和贖罪祭，一併奉到耶和華面前。
And the priest shall make an atonement for all the congregation of the children of Israel, and it shall be forgiven them; for it is ignorance: and they shall bring their offering, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD, and their sin offering before the LORD, for their ignorance:

15:26    以色列全會眾和寄居在他們中間的外人就必蒙赦免，因為這罪是百姓誤犯的。
And it shall be forgiven all the congregation of the children of Israel, and the stranger that sojourneth among them; seeing all the people were in ignorance.

15:27    若有一個人誤犯了罪，他就要獻一歲的母山羊作贖罪祭。
And if any soul sin through ignorance, then he shall bring a she goat of the first year for a sin offering.

15:28    那誤行的人犯罪的時候，祭司要在耶和華面前為他贖罪，他就必蒙赦免。
And the priest shall make an atonement for the soul that sinneth ignorantly, when he sinneth by ignorance before the LORD, to make an atonement for him; and it shall be forgiven him.

15:29    以色列中的本地人和寄居在他們中間的外人，若誤行了什麼事，必歸一樣的條例。
Ye shall have one law for him that sinneth through ignorance, both for him that is born among the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them.

15:30    但那擅敢行事的，無論是本地人是寄居的，他褻瀆了耶和華，必從民中剪除。
But the soul that doeth ought presumptuously, whether he be born in the land, or a stranger, the same reproacheth the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from among his people.

15:31    因他藐視耶和華的言語，違背耶和華的命令，那人總要剪除。他的罪孽要歸到他身上。
Because he hath despised the word of the LORD, and hath broken his commandment, that soul shall utterly be cut off; his iniquity shall be upon him.

15:32    以色列人在曠野的時候，遇見一個人在安息日撿柴。
And while the children of Israel were in the wilderness, they found a man that gathered sticks upon the sabbath day.

15:33    遇見他撿柴的人，就把他帶到摩西，亞倫並全會眾那裡，
And they that found him gathering sticks brought him unto Moses and Aaron, and unto all the congregation.

15:34    將他收在監內。因為當怎樣辦他，還沒有指明。
And they put him in ward, because it was not declared what should be done to him.

15:35    耶和華吩咐摩西說，總要把那人治死。全會眾要在營外用石頭把他打死。
And the LORD said unto Moses, The man shall be surely put to death: all the congregation shall stone him with stones without the camp.

15:36    於是全會眾將他帶到營外，用石頭打死他，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And all the congregation brought him without the camp, and stoned him with stones, and he died; as the LORD commanded Moses.

15:37    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

15:38    你吩咐以色列人，叫他們世世代代在衣服邊上作？？子，又在底邊的？？子上釘一根藍細帶子。
Speak unto the children of Israel, and bid them that they make them fringes in the borders of their garments throughout their generations, and that they put upon the fringe of the borders a ribband of blue:

15:39    你們佩帶這？？子，好叫你們看見就記念遵行耶和華一切的命令，不隨從自己的心意，眼目行邪淫，像你們素常一樣。
And it shall be unto you for a fringe, that ye may look upon it, and remember all the commandments of the LORD, and do them; and that ye seek not after your own heart and your own eyes, after which ye use to go a whoring:

15:40    使你們記念遵行我一切的命令，成為聖潔，歸與你們的神。
That ye may remember, and do all my commandments, and be holy unto your God.

15:41    我是耶和華你們的神，曾把你們從埃及地領出來，要作你們的神。我是耶和華你們的神。
I am the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt, to be your God: I am the LORD your God.





舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


16:1    利未的曾孫，哥轄的孫子，以斯哈的兒子可拉，和流便子孫中以利押的兒子大坍，亞比蘭，與比勒的兒子安，
Now Korah, the son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, and Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, and On, the son of Peleth, sons of Reuben, took men:

16:2    並以色列會中的二百五十個首領，就是有名望選入會中的人，在摩西面前一同起來，
And they rose up before Moses, with certain of the children of Israel, two hundred and fifty princes of the assembly, famous in the congregation, men of renown:

16:3    聚集攻擊摩西，亞倫，說，你們擅自專權。全會眾個個既是聖潔，耶和華也在他們中間，你們為什麼自高，超過耶和華的會眾呢，
And they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron, and said unto them, Ye take too much upon you, seeing all the congregation are holy, every one of them, and the LORD is among them: wherefore then lift ye up yourselves above the congregation of the LORD?

16:4    摩西聽見這話就俯伏在地，
And when Moses heard it, he fell upon his face:

16:5    對可拉和他一黨的人說，到了早晨，耶和華必指示誰是屬他的，誰是聖潔的，就叫誰親近他。他所揀選的是誰，必叫誰親近他。
And he spake unto Korah and unto all his company, saying, Even to morrow the LORD will shew who are his, and who is holy; and will cause him to come near unto him: even him whom he hath chosen will he cause to come near unto him.

16:6    可拉阿，你們要這樣行，你和你的一黨要拿香爐來。
This do; Take you censers, Korah, and all his company;

16:7    明日，在耶和華面前，把火盛在爐中，把香放在其上。耶和華揀選誰，誰就為聖潔。你們這利未的子孫擅自專權了。
And put fire therein, and put incense in them before the LORD to morrow: and it shall be that the man whom the LORD doth choose, he shall be holy: ye take too much upon you, ye sons of Levi.

16:8    摩西又對可拉說，利未的子孫哪，你們聽我說。
And Moses said unto Korah, Hear, I pray you, ye sons of Levi:

16:9    以色列的神從以色列會中將你們分別出來，使你們親近他，辦耶和華帳幕的事，並站在會眾面前替他們當差。
Seemeth it but a small thing unto you, that the God of Israel hath separated you from the congregation of Israel, to bring you near to himself to do the service of the tabernacle of the LORD, and to stand before the congregation to minister unto them?

16:10    耶和華又使你，和你一切弟兄利未的子孫，一同親近他，這豈為小事，你們還要求祭司的職任嗎，
And he hath brought thee near to him, and all thy brethren the sons of Levi with thee: and seek ye the priesthood also?

16:11    你和你一黨的人聚集是要攻擊耶和華。亞倫算什麼，你們竟向他發怨言呢，
For which cause both thou and all thy company are gathered together against the LORD: and what is Aaron, that ye murmur against him?

16:12    摩西打發人去召以利押的兒子大坍，亞比蘭。他們說，我們不上去。
And Moses sent to call Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab: which said, We will not come up:

16:13    你將我們從流奶與蜜之地領上來，要在曠野殺我們，這豈為小事，你還要自立為王轄管我們嗎，
Is it a small thing that thou hast brought us up out of a land that floweth with milk and honey, to kill us in the wilderness, except thou make thyself altogether a prince over us?

16:14    並且你沒有將我們領到流奶與蜜之地，也沒有把田地和葡萄園給我們為業。難道你要剜這些人的眼睛嗎，我們不上去。
Moreover thou hast not brought us into a land that floweth with milk and honey, or given us inheritance of fields and vineyards: wilt thou put out the eyes of these men? we will not come up.

16:15    摩西就甚發怒，對耶和華說，求你不要享受他們的供物。我並沒有奪過他們一匹驢，也沒有害過他們一個人。
And Moses was very wroth, and said unto the LORD, Respect not thou their offering: I have not taken one ass from them, neither have I hurt one of them.

16:16    摩西對可拉說，明天，你和你一黨的人，並亞倫，都要站在耶和華面前。
And Moses said unto Korah, Be thou and all thy company before the LORD, thou, and they, and Aaron, to morrow:

16:17    各人要拿一個香爐，共二百五十個，把香放在上面，到耶和華面前。你和亞倫也各拿自己的香爐。
And take every man his censer, and put incense in them, and bring ye before the LORD every man his censer, two hundred and fifty censers; thou also, and Aaron, each of you his censer.

16:18    於是他們各人拿一個香爐，盛上火，加上香，同摩西，亞倫站在會幕門前。
And they took every man his censer, and put fire in them, and laid incense thereon, and stood in the door of the tabernacle of the congregation with Moses and Aaron.

16:19    可拉招聚全會眾到會幕門前，要攻擊摩西，亞倫。耶和華的榮光就向全會眾顯現。
And Korah gathered all the congregation against them unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto all the congregation.

16:20    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

16:21    你們離開這會眾，我好在轉眼之間把他們滅絕。
Separate yourselves from among this congregation, that I may consume them in a moment.

16:22    摩西，亞倫就俯伏在地，說，神，萬人之靈的神阿，一人犯罪，你就要向全會眾發怒嗎，
And they fell upon their faces, and said, O God, the God of the spirits of all flesh, shall one man sin, and wilt thou be wroth with all the congregation?

16:23    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

16:24    你吩咐會眾說，你們離開可拉，大坍，亞比蘭帳棚的四圍。
Speak unto the congregation, saying, Get you up from about the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram.

16:25    摩西起來，往大坍，亞比蘭那裡去。以色列的長老也隨著他去。
And Moses rose up and went unto Dathan and Abiram; and the elders of Israel followed him.

16:26    他吩咐會眾說，你們離開這惡人的帳棚吧，他們的物件，什麼都不可摸，恐怕你們陷在他們的罪中，與他們一同消滅。
And he spake unto the congregation, saying, Depart, I pray you, from the tents of these wicked men, and touch nothing of theirs, lest ye be consumed in all their sins.

16:27    於是眾人離開可拉，大坍，亞比蘭帳棚的四圍。大坍，亞比蘭帶著妻子，兒女，小孩子，都出來，站在自己的帳棚門口。
So they gat up from the tabernacle of Korah, Dathan, and Abiram, on every side: and Dathan and Abiram came out, and stood in the door of their tents, and their wives, and their sons, and their little children.

16:28    摩西說，我行的這一切事本不是憑我自己心意行的，乃是耶和華打發我行的，必有證據使你們知道。
And Moses said, Hereby ye shall know that the LORD hath sent me to do all these works; for I have not done them of mine own mind.

16:29    這些人死若與世人無異，或是他們所遭的與世人相同，就不是耶和華打發我來的。
If these men die the common death of all men, or if they be visited after the visitation of all men; then the LORD hath not sent me.

16:30    倘若耶和華創作一件新事，使地開口，把他們和一切屬他們的都吞下去，叫他們活活地墜落陰間，你們就明白這些人是藐視耶和華了。
But if the LORD make a new thing, and the earth open her mouth, and swallow them up, with all that appertain unto them, and they go down quick into the pit; then ye shall understand that these men have provoked the LORD.

16:31    摩西剛說完了這一切話，他們腳下的地就開了口，
And it came to pass, as he had made an end of speaking all these words, that the ground clave asunder that was under them:

16:32    把他們和他們的家眷，並一切屬可拉的人丁，財物，都吞下去。
And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their houses, and all the men that appertained unto Korah, and all their goods.

16:33    這樣，他們和一切屬他們的，都活活地墜落陰間。地口在他們上頭照舊合閉，他們就從會中滅亡。
They, and all that appertained to them, went down alive into the pit, and the earth closed upon them: and they perished from among the congregation.

16:34    在他們四圍的以色列眾人聽他們呼號，就都逃跑，說，恐怕地也把我們吞下去。
And all Israel that were round about them fled at the cry of them: for they said, Lest the earth swallow us up also.

16:35    又有火從耶和華那裡出來，燒滅了那獻香的二百五十個人。
And there came out a fire from the LORD, and consumed the two hundred and fifty men that offered incense.

16:36    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

16:37    你吩咐祭司亞倫的兒子以利亞撒從火中撿起那些香爐來，把火撒在別處，因為那些香爐是聖的。
Speak unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, that he take up the censers out of the burning, and scatter thou the fire yonder; for they are hallowed.

16:38    把那些犯罪，自害己命之人的香爐，叫人錘成片子，用以包壇。那些香爐本是他們在耶和華面前獻過的，所以是聖的，並且可以給以色列人作記號。
The censers of these sinners against their own souls, let them make them broad plates for a covering of the altar: for they offered them before the LORD, therefore they are hallowed: and they shall be a sign unto the children of Israel.

16:39    於是祭司以利亞撒將被燒之人所獻的銅香爐拿來，人就錘出來，用以包壇，
And Eleazar the priest took the brasen censers, wherewith they that were burnt had offered; and they were made broad plates for a covering of the altar:

16:40    給以色列人作紀念，使亞倫後裔之外的人不得近前來在耶和華面前燒香，免得他遭可拉和他一黨所遭的。這乃是照耶和華藉著摩西所吩咐的。
To be a memorial unto the children of Israel, that no stranger, which is not of the seed of Aaron, come near to offer incense before the LORD; that he be not as Korah, and as his company: as the LORD said to him by the hand of Moses.

16:41    第二天，以色列全會眾都向摩西，亞倫發怨言說，你們殺了耶和華的百姓了。
But on the morrow all the congregation of the children of Israel murmured against Moses and against Aaron, saying, Ye have killed the people of the LORD.

16:42    會眾聚集攻擊摩西，亞倫的時候，向會幕觀看，不料，有云彩遮蓋了，耶和華的榮光顯現。
And it came to pass, when the congregation was gathered against Moses and against Aaron, that they looked toward the tabernacle of the congregation: and, behold, the cloud covered it, and the glory of the LORD appeared.

16:43    摩西，亞倫就來到會幕前。
And Moses and Aaron came before the tabernacle of the congregation.

16:44    耶和華吩咐摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

16:45    你們離開這會眾，我好在轉眼之間把他們滅絕。他們二人就俯伏於地。
Get you up from among this congregation, that I may consume them as in a moment. And they fell upon their faces.



16:46    摩西對亞倫說，拿你的香爐，把壇上的火盛在其中，又加上香，快快帶到會眾那裡，為他們贖罪。因為有忿怒從耶和華那裡出來，瘟疫已經發作了。
And Moses said unto Aaron, Take a censer, and put fire therein from off the altar, and put on incense, and go quickly unto the congregation, and make an atonement for them: for there is wrath gone out from the LORD; the plague is begun.

16:47    亞倫照著摩西所說的拿來，跑到會中，不料，瘟疫在百姓中已經發作了。他就加上香，為百姓贖罪。
And Aaron took as Moses commanded, and ran into the midst of the congregation; and, behold, the plague was begun among the people: and he put on incense, and made an atonement for the people.

16:48    他站在活人死人中間，瘟疫就止住了。
And he stood between the dead and the living; and the plague was stayed.

16:49    除了因可拉事情死的以外，遭瘟疫死的，共有一萬四千七百人。
Now they that died in the plague were fourteen thousand and seven hundred, beside them that died about the matter of Korah.

16:50    亞倫回到會幕門口，到摩西那裡，瘟疫已經止住了。
And Aaron returned unto Moses unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation: and the plague was stayed.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


17:1    耶和華對摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

17:2    你曉諭以色列人，從他們手下取杖，每支派一根。從他們所有的首領，按著支派，共取十二根。你要將各人的名字寫在各人的杖上，
Speak unto the children of Israel, and take of every one of them a rod according to the house of their fathers, of all their princes according to the house of their fathers twelve rods: write thou every man's name upon his rod.

17:3    並要將亞倫的名字寫在利未的杖上，因為各族長必有一根杖。
And thou shalt write Aaron's name upon the rod of Levi: for one rod shall be for the head of the house of their fathers.

17:4    你要把這些杖存在會幕內法櫃前，就是我與你們相會之處。
And thou shalt lay them up in the tabernacle of the congregation before the testimony, where I will meet with you.

17:5    後來我所揀選的那人，他的杖必發芽。這樣，我必使以色列人向你們所發的怨言止息，不再達到我耳中。
And it shall come to pass, that the man's rod, whom I shall choose, shall blossom: and I will make to cease from me the murmurings of the children of Israel, whereby they murmur against you.

17:6    於是摩西曉諭以色列人，他們的首領就把杖交給他，按著支派，每首領一根，共有十二根。亞倫的杖也在其中。
And Moses spake unto the children of Israel, and every one of their princes gave him a rod apiece, for each prince one, according to their fathers' houses, even twelve rods: and the rod of Aaron was among their rods.

17:7    摩西就把杖存在法櫃的帳幕內，在耶和華面前。
And Moses laid up the rods before the LORD in the tabernacle of witness.

17:8    第二天，摩西進法櫃的帳幕去。誰知利未族亞倫的杖已經發了芽，生了花苞，開了花，結了熟杏。
And it came to pass, that on the morrow Moses went into the tabernacle of witness; and, behold, the rod of Aaron for the house of Levi was budded, and brought forth buds, and bloomed blossoms, and yielded almonds.

17:9    摩西就把所有的杖從耶和華面前拿出來，給以色列眾人看。他們看見了，各首領就把自己的杖拿去。
And Moses brought out all the rods from before the LORD unto all the children of Israel: and they looked, and took every man his rod.

17:10    耶和華吩咐摩西說，把亞倫的杖還放在法櫃前，給這些背叛之子留作記號。這樣，你就使他們向我發的怨言止息，免得他們死亡。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Bring Aaron's rod again before the testimony, to be kept for a token against the rebels; and thou shalt quite take away their murmurings from me, that they die not.

17:11    摩西就這樣行。耶和華怎樣吩咐他，他就怎樣行了。
And Moses did so: as the LORD commanded him, so did he.

17:12    以色列人對摩西說，我們死喇。我們滅亡喇。都滅亡喇。
And the children of Israel spake unto Moses, saying, Behold, we die, we perish, we all perish.

17:13    凡挨近耶和華帳幕的是必死的。我們都要死亡嗎，
Whosoever cometh any thing near unto the tabernacle of the LORD shall die: shall we be consumed with dying?



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


18:1    耶和華對亞倫說，你和你的兒子，並你本族的人，要一同擔當干犯聖所的罪孽。你和你的兒子也要一同擔當干犯祭司職任的罪孽。
And the LORD said unto Aaron, Thou and thy sons and thy father's house with thee shall bear the iniquity of the sanctuary: and thou and thy sons with thee shall bear the iniquity of your priesthood.

18:2    你要帶你弟兄利未人，就是你祖宗支派的人前來，使他們與你聯合，服事你，只是你和你的兒子，要一同在法櫃的帳幕前供職。
And thy brethren also of the tribe of Levi, the tribe of thy father, bring thou with thee, that they may be joined unto thee, and minister unto thee: but thou and thy sons with thee shall minister before the tabernacle of witness.

18:3    他們要守所吩咐你的，並守全帳幕，只是不可挨近聖所的器具和壇，免得他們和你們都死亡。
And they shall keep thy charge, and the charge of all the tabernacle: only they shall not come nigh the vessels of the sanctuary and the altar, that neither they, nor ye also, die.

18:4    他們要與你聯合，也要看守會幕，辦理帳幕一切的事，只是外人不可挨近你們。
And they shall be joined unto thee, and keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, for all the service of the tabernacle: and a stranger shall not come nigh unto you.

18:5    你們要看守聖所和壇，免得忿怒再臨到以色列人。
And ye shall keep the charge of the sanctuary, and the charge of the altar: that there be no wrath any more upon the children of Israel.

18:6    我已將你們的弟兄利未人從以色列人中揀選出來歸耶和華，是給你們為賞賜的，為要辦理會幕的事。
And I, behold, I have taken your brethren the Levites from among the children of Israel: to you they are given as a gift for the LORD, to do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.

18:7    你和你的兒子要為一切屬壇和幔子內的事一同守祭司的職任。你們要這樣供職。我將祭司的職任給你們當作賞賜事奉我。凡挨近的外人必被治死。
Therefore thou and thy sons with thee shall keep your priest's office for everything of the altar, and within the vail; and ye shall serve: I have given your priest's office unto you as a service of gift: and the stranger that cometh nigh shall be put to death.

18:8    耶和華曉諭亞倫說，我已將歸我的舉祭，就是以色列人一切分別為聖的物，交給你經管。因你受過膏，把這些都賜給你和你的子孫，當作永得的分。
And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Behold, I also have given thee the charge of mine heave offerings of all the hallowed things of the children of Israel; unto thee have I given them by reason of the anointing, and to thy sons, by an ordinance for ever.

18:9    以色列人歸給我至聖的供物，就是一切的素祭，贖罪祭，贖愆祭，其中所有存留不經火的，都為至聖之物，要歸給你和你的子孫。
This shall be thine of the most holy things, reserved from the fire: every oblation of theirs, every meat offering of theirs, and every sin offering of theirs, and every trespass offering of theirs which they shall render unto me, shall be most holy for thee and for thy sons.



18:10    你要拿這些當至聖物吃。凡男丁都可以吃。你當以此物為聖。
In the most holy place shalt thou eat it; every male shall eat it: it shall be holy unto thee.

18:11    以色列人所獻的舉祭並搖祭都是你的。我已賜給你和你的兒女，當作永得的分。凡在你家中的潔淨人都可以吃。
And this is thine; the heave offering of their gift, with all the wave offerings of the children of Israel: I have given them unto thee, and to thy sons and to thy daughters with thee, by a statute for ever: every one that is clean in thy house shall eat of it.

18:12    凡油中，新酒中，五穀中至好的，就是以色列人所獻給耶和華初熟之物，我都賜給你。
All the best of the oil, and all the best of the wine, and of the wheat, the firstfruits of them which they shall offer unto the LORD, them have I given thee.

18:13    凡從他們地上所帶來給耶和華初熟之物也都要歸與你。你家中的潔淨人都可以吃。
And whatsoever is first ripe in the land, which they shall bring unto the LORD, shall be thine; every one that is clean in thine house shall eat of it.

18:14    以色列中一切永獻的都必歸與你。
Every thing devoted in Israel shall be thine.

18:15    他們所有奉給耶和華的，連人帶牲畜，凡頭生的，都要歸給你。只是人頭生的，總要贖出來。不潔淨牲畜頭生的，也要贖出來。
Every thing that openeth the matrix in all flesh, which they bring unto the LORD, whether it be of men or beasts, shall be thine: nevertheless the firstborn of man shalt thou surely redeem, and the firstling of unclean beasts shalt thou redeem.

18:16    其中在一月之外所當贖的，要照你所估定的價，按聖所的平，用銀子五舍客勒贖出來（一舍客勒是二十季拉）。
And those that are to be redeemed from a month old shalt thou redeem, according to thine estimation, for the money of five shekels, after the shekel of the sanctuary, which is twenty gerahs.

18:17    只是頭生的牛，或是頭生的綿羊和山羊，必不可贖，都是聖的，要把它的血灑在壇上，把它的脂油焚燒，當作馨香的火祭獻給耶和華。
But the firstling of a cow, or the firstling of a sheep, or the firstling of a goat, thou shalt not redeem; they are holy: thou shalt sprinkle their blood upon the altar, and shalt burn their fat for an offering made by fire, for a sweet savour unto the LORD.

18:18    它的肉必歸你，像被搖的胸，被舉的右腿歸你一樣。
And the flesh of them shall be thine, as the wave breast and as the right shoulder are thine.

18:19    凡以色列人所獻給耶和華聖物中的舉祭，我都賜給你和你的兒女，當作永得的分。這是給你和你的後裔，在耶和華面前作為永遠的鹽約（鹽即不廢壞的意思）。
All the heave offerings of the holy things, which the children of Israel offer unto the LORD, have I given thee, and thy sons and thy daughters with thee, by a statute for ever: it is a covenant of salt for ever before the LORD unto thee and to thy seed with thee.

18:20    耶和華對亞倫說，你在以色列人的境內不可有產業，在他們中間也不可有分。我就是你的分，是你的產業。
And the LORD spake unto Aaron, Thou shalt have no inheritance in their land, neither shalt thou have any part among them: I am thy part and thine inheritance among the children of Israel.

18:21    凡以色列中出產的十分之一，我已賜給利未的子孫為業。因他們所辦的是會幕的事，所以賜給他們為酬他們的勞。
And, behold, I have given the children of Levi all the tenth in Israel for an inheritance, for their service which they serve, even the service of the tabernacle of the congregation.

18:22    從今以後，以色列人不可挨近會幕，免得他們擔罪而死。
Neither must the children of Israel henceforth come nigh the tabernacle of the congregation, lest they bear sin, and die.

18:23    惟獨利未人要辦會幕的事，擔當罪孽。這要作你們世世代代永遠的定例。他們在以色列人中不可有產業。
But the Levites shall do the service of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they shall bear their iniquity: it shall be a statute for ever throughout your generations, that among the children of Israel they have no inheritance.

18:24    因為以色列人中出產的十分之一，就是獻給耶和華為舉祭的，我已賜給利未人為業。所以我對他們說，在以色列人中不可有產業。
But the tithes of the children of Israel, which they offer as an heave offering unto the LORD, I have given to the Levites to inherit: therefore I have said unto them, Among the children of Israel they shall have no inheritance.

18:25    耶和華吩咐摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

18:26    你曉諭利未人說，你們從以色列人中所取的十分之一，就是我給你們為業的，要再從那十分之一中取十分之一作為舉祭獻給耶和華，
Thus speak unto the Levites, and say unto them, When ye take of the children of Israel the tithes which I have given you from them for your inheritance, then ye shall offer up an heave offering of it for the LORD, even a tenth part of the tithe.

18:27    這舉祭要算為你們場上的谷，又如滿酒榨的酒。
And this your heave offering shall be reckoned unto you, as though it were the corn of the threshingfloor, and as the fulness of the winepress.

18:28    這樣，你們從以色列人中所得的十分之一也要作舉祭獻給耶和華，從這十分之一中，將所獻給耶和華的舉祭歸給祭司亞倫。
Thus ye also shall offer an heave offering unto the LORD of all your tithes, which ye receive of the children of Israel; and ye shall give thereof the LORD's heave offering to Aaron the priest.

18:29    奉給你們的一切禮物，要從其中將至好的，就是分別為聖的，獻給耶和華為舉祭。
Out of all your gifts ye shall offer every heave offering of the LORD, of all the best thereof, even the hallowed part thereof out of it.

18:30    所以你要對利未人說，你們從其中將至好的舉起，這就算為你們場上的糧，又如酒榨的酒。
Therefore thou shalt say unto them, When ye have heaved the best thereof from it, then it shall be counted unto the Levites as the increase of the threshingfloor, and as the increase of the winepress.

18:31    你們和你們家屬隨處可以吃。這原是你們的賞賜，是酬你們在會幕裡辦事的勞。
And ye shall eat it in every place, ye and your households: for it is your reward for your service in the tabernacle of the congregation.

18:32    你們從其中將至好的舉起，就不至因這物擔罪。你們不可褻瀆以色列人的聖物，免得死亡。
And ye shall bear no sin by reason of it, when ye have heaved from it the best of it: neither shall ye pollute the holy things of the children of Israel, lest ye die.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


19:1    耶和華曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Aaron, saying,

19:2    耶和華命定律法中的一條律例乃是這樣說，你要吩咐以色列人，把一隻沒有殘疾，未曾負軛，純紅的母牛牽到你這裡來，
This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD hath commanded, saying, Speak unto the children of Israel, that they bring thee a red heifer without spot, wherein is no blemish, and upon which never came yoke:

19:3    交給祭司以利亞撒。他必牽到營外，人就把牛宰在他面前。
And ye shall give her unto Eleazar the priest, that he may bring her forth without the camp, and one shall slay her before his face:

19:4    祭司以利亞撒要用指頭蘸這牛的血，向會幕前面彈七次。
And Eleazar the priest shall take of her blood with his finger, and sprinkle of her blood directly before the tabernacle of the congregation seven times:

19:5    人要在他眼前把這母牛焚燒。牛的皮，肉，血，糞都要焚燒。
And one shall burn the heifer in his sight; her skin, and her flesh, and her blood, with her dung, shall he burn:

19:6    祭司要把香柏木，牛膝草，硃紅色線都丟在燒牛的火中。
And the priest shall take cedar wood, and hyssop, and scarlet, and cast it into the midst of the burning of the heifer.

19:7    祭司必不潔淨到晚上，要洗衣服，用水洗身，然後可以進營。
Then the priest shall wash his clothes, and he shall bathe his flesh in water, and afterward he shall come into the camp, and the priest shall be unclean until the even.

19:8    燒牛的人必不潔淨到晚上，也要洗衣服，用水洗身。
And he that burneth her shall wash his clothes in water, and bathe his flesh in water, and shall be unclean until the even.

19:9    必有一個潔淨的人收起母牛的灰，存在營外潔淨的地方，為以色列會眾調作除汙穢的水。這本是除罪的。
And a man that is clean shall gather up the ashes of the heifer, and lay them up without the camp in a clean place, and it shall be kept for the congregation of the children of Israel for a water of separation: it is a purification for sin.

19:10    收起母牛灰的人必不潔淨到晚上，要洗衣服。這要給以色列人和寄居在他們中間的外人作為永遠的定例。
And he that gathereth the ashes of the heifer shall wash his clothes, and be unclean until the even: and it shall be unto the children of Israel, and unto the stranger that sojourneth among them, for a statute for ever.

19:11    摸了人死屍的，就必七天不潔淨。
He that toucheth the dead body of any man shall be unclean seven days.

19:12    那人到第三天要用這除汙穢的水潔淨自己，第七天就潔淨了。他若在第三天不潔淨自己，第七天就不潔淨了。
He shall purify himself with it on the third day, and on the seventh day he shall be clean: but if he purify not himself the third day, then the seventh day he shall not be clean.

19:13    凡摸了人死屍，不潔淨自己的，就玷汙了耶和華的帳幕，這人必從以色列中剪除。因為那除汙穢的水沒有灑在他身上，他就為不潔淨，汙穢還在他身上。
Whosoever toucheth the dead body of any man that is dead, and purifieth not himself, defileth the tabernacle of the LORD; and that soul shall be cut off from Israel: because the water of separation was not sprinkled upon him, he shall be unclean; his uncleanness is yet upon him.

19:14    人死在帳棚裡的條例乃是這樣，凡進那帳棚的，和一切在帳棚裡的，都必七天不潔淨。
This is the law, when a man dieth in a tent: all that come into the tent, and all that is in the tent, shall be unclean seven days.

19:15    凡敞口的器皿，就是沒有紮上蓋的，也是不潔淨。
And every open vessel, which hath no covering bound upon it, is unclean.

19:16    無論何人在田野裡摸了被刀殺的，或是屍首，或是人的骨頭，或是墳墓，就要七天不潔淨。
And whosoever toucheth one that is slain with a sword in the open fields, or a dead body, or a bone of a man, or a grave, shall be unclean seven days.

19:17    要為這不潔淨的人拿些燒成的除罪灰放在器皿裡，倒上活水。
And for an unclean person they shall take of the ashes of the burnt heifer of purification for sin, and running water shall be put thereto in a vessel:

19:18    必當有一個潔淨的人拿牛膝草蘸在這水中，把水灑在帳棚上，和一切器皿並帳棚內的眾人身上，又灑在摸了骨頭，或摸了被殺的，或摸了自死的，或摸了墳墓的那人身上。
And a clean person shall take hyssop, and dip it in the water, and sprinkle it upon the tent, and upon all the vessels, and upon the persons that were there, and upon him that touched a bone, or one slain, or one dead, or a grave:

19:19    第三天和第七天，潔淨的人要灑水在不潔淨的人身上，第七天就使他成為潔淨。那人要洗衣服，用水洗澡，到晚上就潔淨了。
And the clean person shall sprinkle upon the unclean on the third day, and on the seventh day: and on the seventh day he shall purify himself, and wash his clothes, and bathe himself in water, and shall be clean at even.

19:20    但那汙穢而不潔淨自己的，要將他從會中剪除，因為他玷汙了耶和華的聖所。除汙穢的水沒有灑在他身上，他是不潔淨的。
But the man that shall be unclean, and shall not purify himself, that soul shall be cut off from among the congregation, because he hath defiled the sanctuary of the LORD: the water of separation hath not been sprinkled upon him; he is unclean.

19:21    這要給你們作為永遠的定例。並且那灑除汙穢水的人要洗衣服。凡摸除汙穢水的，必不潔淨到晚上。
And it shall be a perpetual statute unto them, that he that sprinkleth the water of separation shall wash his clothes; and he that toucheth the water of separation shall be unclean until even.

19:22    不潔淨人所摸的一切物就不潔淨。摸了這物的人必不潔淨到晚上。
And whatsoever the unclean person toucheth shall be unclean; and the soul that toucheth it shall be unclean until even.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


20:1    正月間，以色列全會眾到了尋的曠野，就住在加低斯。米利暗死在那裡，就葬在那裡。
Then came the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, into the desert of Zin in the first month: and the people abode in Kadesh; and Miriam died there, and was buried there.



20:2    會眾沒有水喝，就聚集攻擊摩西，亞倫。
And there was no water for the congregation: and they gathered themselves together against Moses and against Aaron.

20:3    百姓向摩西爭鬧說，我們的弟兄曾死在耶和華面前，我們恨不得與他們同死。
And the people chode with Moses, and spake, saying, Would God that we had died when our brethren died before the LORD!

20:4    你們為何把耶和華的會眾領到這曠野，使我們和牲畜都死在這裡呢，
And why have ye brought up the congregation of the LORD into this wilderness, that we and our cattle should die there?

20:5    你們為何逼著我們出埃及，領我們到這壞地方呢，這地方不好撒種，也沒有無花果樹，葡萄樹，石榴樹，又沒有水喝。
And wherefore have ye made us to come up out of Egypt, to bring us in unto this evil place? it is no place of seed, or of figs, or of vines, or of pomegranates; neither is there any water to drink.

20:6    摩西，亞倫離開會眾，到會幕門口，俯伏在地。耶和華的榮光向他們顯現。
And Moses and Aaron went from the presence of the assembly unto the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, and they fell upon their faces: and the glory of the LORD appeared unto them.

20:7    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

20:8    你拿著杖去，和你的哥哥亞倫招聚會眾，在他們眼前吩咐磐石發出水來，水就從磐石流出，給會眾和他們的牲畜喝。
Take the rod, and gather thou the assembly together, thou, and Aaron thy brother, and speak ye unto the rock before their eyes; and it shall give forth his water, and thou shalt bring forth to them water out of the rock: so thou shalt give the congregation and their beasts drink.

20:9    於是摩西照耶和華所吩咐的，從耶和華面前取了杖去。
And Moses took the rod from before the LORD, as he commanded him.

20:10    摩西，亞倫就招聚會眾到磐石前。摩西說，你們這些背叛的人聽我說，我為你們使水從這磐石中流出來嗎，
And Moses and Aaron gathered the congregation together before the rock, and he said unto them, Hear now, ye rebels; must we fetch you water out of this rock?

20:11    摩西舉手，用杖擊打磐石兩下，就有許多水流出來，會眾和他們的牲畜都喝了。
And Moses lifted up his hand, and with his rod he smote the rock twice: and the water came out abundantly, and the congregation drank, and their beasts also.

20:12    耶和華對摩西，亞倫說，因為你們不信我，不在以色列人眼前尊我為聖，所以你們必不得領這會眾進我所賜給他們的地去。
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron, Because ye believed me not, to sanctify me in the eyes of the children of Israel, therefore ye shall not bring this congregation into the land which I have given them.

20:13    這水名叫米利巴水（米利巴就是爭鬧的意思），是因以色列人向耶和華爭鬧，耶和華就在他們面前顯為聖。
This is the water of Meribah; because the children of Israel strove with the LORD, and he was sanctified in them.

20:14    摩西從加低斯差遣使者去見以東王，說，你的弟兄以色列人這樣說，我們所遭遇的一切艱難，
And Moses sent messengers from Kadesh unto the king of Edom, Thus saith thy brother Israel, Thou knowest all the travail that hath befallen us:

20:15    就是我們的列祖下到埃及，我們在埃及久住。埃及人惡待我們的列祖和我們，
How our fathers went down into Egypt, and we have dwelt in Egypt a long time; and the Egyptians vexed us, and our fathers:

20:16    我們哀求耶和華的時候，他聽了我們的聲音，差遣使者把我們從埃及領出來。這事你都知道。如今，我們在你邊界上的城加低斯。
And when we cried unto the LORD, he heard our voice, and sent an angel, and hath brought us forth out of Egypt: and, behold, we are in Kadesh, a city in the uttermost of thy border:

20:17    求你容我們從你的地經過。我們不走田間和葡萄園，也不喝井裡的水，只走大道（原文作王道），不偏左右，直到過了你的境界。
Let us pass, I pray thee, through thy country: we will not pass through the fields, or through the vineyards, neither will we drink of the water of the wells: we will go by the king's high way, we will not turn to the right hand nor to the left, until we have passed thy borders.

20:18    以東王說，你不可從我的地經過，免得我帶刀出去攻擊你。
And Edom said unto him, Thou shalt not pass by me, lest I come out against thee with the sword.

20:19    以色列人說，我們要走大道上去。我們和牲畜若喝你的水，必給你價值。不求別的，只求你容我們步行過去。
And the children of Israel said unto him, We will go by the high way: and if I and my cattle drink of thy water, then I will pay for it: I will only, without doing anything else, go through on my feet.

20:20    以東王說，你們不可經過。就率領許多人出來，要用強硬的手攻擊以色列人。
And he said, Thou shalt not go through. And Edom came out against him with much people, and with a strong hand.

20:21    這樣，以東王不肯容以色列人從他的境界過去。於是他們轉去，離開他。
Thus Edom refused to give Israel passage through his border: wherefore Israel turned away from him.

20:22    以色列全會眾從加低斯起行，到了何珥山。
And the children of Israel, even the whole congregation, journeyed from Kadesh, and came unto mount Hor.

20:23    耶和華在附近以東邊界的何珥山上曉諭摩西，亞倫說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses and Aaron in mount Hor, by the coast of the land of Edom, saying,

20:24    亞倫要歸到他列祖（原文作本民）那裡。他必不得入我所賜給以色列人的地。因為在米利巴水，你們違背了我的命。
Aaron shall be gathered unto his people: for he shall not enter into the land which I have given unto the children of Israel, because ye rebelled against my word at the water of Meribah.

20:25    你帶亞倫和他的兒子以利亞撒上何珥山，
Take Aaron and Eleazar his son, and bring them up unto mount Hor:

20:26    把亞倫的聖衣脫下來，給他的兒子以利亞撒穿上。亞倫必死在那裡，歸他列祖。
And strip Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son: and Aaron shall be gathered unto his people, and shall die there.

20:27    摩西就照耶和華所吩咐的行。三人當著會眾的眼前上了何珥山。
And Moses did as the LORD commanded: and they went up into mount Hor in the sight of all the congregation.

20:28    摩西把亞倫的聖衣脫下來，給他的兒子以利亞撒穿上，亞倫就死在山頂那裡。於是摩西和以利亞撒下了山。
And Moses stripped Aaron of his garments, and put them upon Eleazar his son; and Aaron died there in the top of the mount: and Moses and Eleazar came down from the mount.

20:29    全會眾，就是以色列全家，見亞倫已經死了，便都為亞倫哀哭了三十天。
And when all the congregation saw that Aaron was dead, they mourned for Aaron thirty days, even all the house of Israel.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


21:1    住南地的迦南人亞拉得王，聽說以色列人從亞他林路來，就和以色列人爭戰，擄了他們幾個人。
And when king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south, heard tell that Israel came by the way of the spies; then he fought against Israel, and took some of them prisoners.

21:2    以色列人向耶和華髮願說，你若將這民交付我手，我就把他們的城邑盡行毀滅。
And Israel vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou wilt indeed deliver this people into my hand, then I will utterly destroy their cities.

21:3    耶和華應允了以色列人，把迦南人交付他們，他們就把迦南人和迦南人的城邑盡行毀滅。那地方的名便叫何珥瑪（何珥瑪就是毀滅的意思）。
And the LORD hearkened to the voice of Israel, and delivered up the Canaanites; and they utterly destroyed them and their cities: and he called the name of the place Hormah.

21:4    他們從何珥山起行，往紅海那條路走，要繞過以東地。百姓因這路難行，心中甚是煩躁，
And they journeyed from mount Hor by the way of the Red sea, to compass the land of Edom: and the soul of the people was much discouraged because of the way.

21:5    就怨？？神和摩西說，你們為什麼把我們從埃及領出來，使我們死在曠野呢，這裡沒有糧，沒有水，我們的心厭惡這淡薄的食物。
And the people spake against God, and against Moses, Wherefore have ye brought us up out of Egypt to die in the wilderness? for there is no bread, neither is there any water; and our soul loatheth this light bread.

21:6    於是耶和華使火蛇進入百姓中間，蛇就咬他們。以色列人中死了許多。
And the LORD sent fiery serpents among the people, and they bit the people; and much people of Israel died.

21:7    百姓到摩西那裡，說，我們怨？？耶和華和你，有罪了。求你禱告耶和華，叫這些蛇離開我們。於是摩西為百姓禱告。
Therefore the people came to Moses, and said, We have sinned, for we have spoken against the LORD, and against thee; pray unto the LORD, that he take away the serpents from us. And Moses prayed for the people.

21:8    耶和華對摩西說，你製造一條火蛇，掛在杆子上。凡被咬的，一望這蛇，就必得活。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Make thee a fiery serpent, and set it upon a pole: and it shall come to pass, that every one that is bitten, when he looketh upon it, shall live.

21:9    摩西便製造一條銅蛇，掛在杆子上。凡被蛇咬的，一望這銅蛇就活了。
And Moses made a serpent of brass, and put it upon a pole, and it came to pass, that if a serpent had bitten any man, when he beheld the serpent of brass, he lived.

21:10    以色列人起行，安營在阿伯。
And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in Oboth.

21:11    又從阿伯起行，安營在以耶亞巴琳，與摩押相對的曠野，向日出之地。
And they journeyed from Oboth, and pitched at Ijeabarim, in the wilderness which is before Moab, toward the sunrising.

21:12    從那裡起行，安營在撒烈谷。
From thence they removed, and pitched in the valley of Zared.



21:13    從那裡起行，安營在亞嫩河那邊。這亞嫩河是在曠野，從亞摩利的境界流出來的。原來亞嫩河是摩押的邊界，在摩押和亞摩利人搭界的地方。
From thence they removed, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, which is in the wilderness that cometh out of the coasts of the Amorites: for Arnon is the border of Moab, between Moab and the Amorites.

21:14    所以耶和華的戰記上說，蘇法的哇哈伯與亞嫩河的谷，
Wherefore it is said in the book of the wars of the LORD, What he did in the Red sea, and in the brooks of Arnon,

21:15    並向亞珥城眾谷的下坡，是靠近摩押的境界。
And at the stream of the brooks that goeth down to the dwelling of Ar, and lieth upon the border of Moab.

21:16    以色列人從那裡起行，到了比珥（比珥就是井的意思）。從前耶和華吩咐摩西說，招聚百姓，我好給他們水喝，說的就是這井。
And from thence they went to Beer: that is the well whereof the LORD spake unto Moses, Gather the people together, and I will give them water.

21:17    當時，以色列人唱歌說，井阿，湧上水來。你們要向這井歌唱。
Then Israel sang this song, Spring up, O well; sing ye unto it:

21:18    這井是首領和民中的尊貴人用圭用杖所挖所掘的。以色列人從曠野往瑪他拿去，
The princes digged the well, the nobles of the people digged it, by the direction of the lawgiver, with their staves. And from the wilderness they went to Mattanah:

21:19    從瑪他拿到拿哈列，從拿哈列到巴末，
And from Mattanah to Nahaliel: and from Nahaliel to Bamoth:

21:20    從巴末到摩押地的谷，又到那下望曠野之毗斯迦的山頂。
And from Bamoth in the valley, that is in the country of Moab, to the top of Pisgah, which looketh toward Jeshimon.

21:21    以色列人差遣使者去見亞摩利人的王西巨集，說，
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, saying,

21:22    求你容我們從你的地經過。我們不偏入田間和葡萄園，也不喝井裡的水，只走大道（原文作王道），直到過了你的境界。
Let me pass through thy land: we will not turn into the fields, or into the vineyards; we will not drink of the waters of the well: but we will go along by the king's high way, until we be past thy borders.

21:23    西巨集不容以色列人從他的境界經過，就招聚他的眾民出到曠野，要攻擊以色列人，到了雅雜與以色列人爭戰。
And Sihon would not suffer Israel to pass through his border: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and went out against Israel into the wilderness: and he came to Jahaz, and fought against Israel.

21:24    以色列人用刀殺了他，得了他的地，從亞嫩河到雅博河，直到亞捫人的境界，因為亞捫人的境界多有堅壘。
And Israel smote him with the edge of the sword, and possessed his land from Arnon unto Jabbok, even unto the children of Ammon: for the border of the children of Ammon was strong.

21:25    以色列人奪取這一切的城邑，也住亞摩利人的城邑，就是希實本與希實本的一切鄉村。
And Israel took all these cities: and Israel dwelt in all the cities of the Amorites, in Heshbon, and in all the villages thereof.

21:26    這希實本是亞摩利王西巨集的京城。西巨集曾與摩押的先王爭戰，從他手中奪取了全地，直到亞嫩河。
For Heshbon was the city of Sihon the king of the Amorites, who had fought against the former king of Moab, and taken all his land out of his hand, even unto Arnon.

21:27    所以那些作詩歌的說，你們來到希實本。願西巨集的城被修造，被建立。
Wherefore they that speak in proverbs say, Come into Heshbon, let the city of Sihon be built and prepared:

21:28    因為有火從希實本發出，有火焰出於西巨集的城，燒盡摩押的亞珥和亞嫩河邱壇的祭司（祭司原文作主）。
For there is a fire gone out of Heshbon, a flame from the city of Sihon: it hath consumed Ar of Moab, and the lords of the high places of Arnon.

21:29    摩押阿，你有禍了。基抹的民哪，你們滅亡了。基抹的男子逃奔，女子被擄，交付亞摩利的王西巨集。
Woe to thee, Moab! thou art undone, O people of Chemosh: he hath given his sons that escaped, and his daughters, into captivity unto Sihon king of the Amorites.

21:30    我們射了他們。希實本直到底本盡皆毀滅。我們使地變成荒場，直到挪法。這挪法直延到米底巴。
We have shot at them; Heshbon is perished even unto Dibon, and we have laid them waste even unto Nophah, which reacheth unto Medeba.

21:31    這樣，以色列人就住在亞摩利人之地。
Thus Israel dwelt in the land of the Amorites.

21:32    摩西打發人去窺探雅謝，以色列人就佔了雅謝的鎮市，趕出那裡的亞摩利人。
And Moses sent to spy out Jaazer, and they took the villages thereof, and drove out the Amorites that were there.

21:33    以色列人轉回，向巴珊去。巴珊王噩和他的眾民都出來，在以得來與他們交戰。
And they turned and went up by the way of Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan went out against them, he, and all his people, to the battle at Edrei.

21:34    耶和華對摩西說，不要怕他。因我已將他和他的眾民，並他的地，都交在你手中。你要待他像從前待住希實本的亞摩利王西巨集一般。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Fear him not: for I have delivered him into thy hand, and all his people, and his land; and thou shalt do to him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.

21:35    於是他們殺了他和他的眾子，並他的眾民，沒有留下一個，就得了他的地。
So they smote him, and his sons, and all his people, until there was none left him alive: and they possessed his land.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


22:1    以色列人起行，在摩押平原，約旦河東，對著耶利哥安營。
And the children of Israel set forward, and pitched in the plains of Moab on this side Jordan by Jericho.

22:2    以色列人向亞摩利人所行的一切事，西撥的兒子巴勒都看見了。
And Balak the son of Zippor saw all that Israel had done to the Amorites.

22:3    摩押人因以色列民甚多，就大大懼怕，心內憂急，
And Moab was sore afraid of the people, because they were many: and Moab was distressed because of the children of Israel.

22:4    對米甸的長老說，現在這眾人要把我們四圍所有的一概舔盡，就如牛舔盡田間的草一般。那時西撥的兒子巴勒作摩押王。
And Moab said unto the elders of Midian, Now shall this company lick up all that are round about us, as the ox licketh up the grass of the field. And Balak the son of Zippor was king of the Moabites at that time.

22:5    他差遣使者往大河邊的毗奪去，到比珥的兒子巴蘭本鄉那裡，召巴蘭來，說，有一宗民從埃及出來，遮滿地面，與我對居。
He sent messengers therefore unto Balaam the son of Beor to Pethor, which is by the river of the land of the children of his people, to call him, saying, Behold, there is a people come out from Egypt: behold, they cover the face of the earth, and they abide over against me:

22:6    這民比我強盛，現在求你來為我咒詛他們，或者我能得勝，攻打他們，趕出此地。因為我知道，你為誰祝福，誰就得福。你咒詛誰，誰就受咒詛。
Come now therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people; for they are too mighty for me: peradventure I shall prevail, that we may smite them, and that I may drive them out of the land: for I wot that he whom thou blessest is blessed, and he whom thou cursest is cursed.

22:7    摩押的長老和米甸的長老手裡拿著卦金，到了巴蘭那裡，將巴勒的話都告訴了他。
And the elders of Moab and the elders of Midian departed with the rewards of divination in their hand; and they came unto Balaam, and spake unto him the words of Balak.

22:8    巴蘭說，你們今夜在這裡住宿，我必照耶和華所曉諭我的回報你們。摩押的使臣就在巴蘭那裡住下了。
And he said unto them, Lodge here this night, and I will bring you word again, as the LORD shall speak unto me: and the princes of Moab abode with Balaam.

22:9    神臨到巴蘭那裡，說，在你這裡的人都是誰，
And God came unto Balaam, and said, What men are these with thee?

22:10    巴蘭回答說，是摩押王西撥的兒子巴勒打發人到我這裡來，說，
And Balaam said unto God, Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, hath sent unto me, saying,

22:11    從埃及出來的民遮滿地面，你來為我咒詛他們，或者我能與他們爭戰，把他們趕出去。
Behold, there is a people come out of Egypt, which covereth the face of the earth: come now, curse me them; peradventure I shall be able to overcome them, and drive them out.

22:12    神對巴蘭說，你不可同他們去，也不可咒詛那民，因為那民是蒙福的。
And God said unto Balaam, Thou shalt not go with them; thou shalt not curse the people: for they are blessed.

22:13    巴蘭早晨起來，對巴勒的使臣說，你們回本地去吧，因為耶和華不容我和你們同去。
And Balaam rose up in the morning, and said unto the princes of Balak, Get you into your land: for the LORD refuseth to give me leave to go with you.

22:14    摩押的使臣就起來，回巴勒那裡去，說，巴蘭不肯和我們同來。
And the princes of Moab rose up, and they went unto Balak, and said, Balaam refuseth to come with us.

22:15    巴勒又差遣使臣，比先前的又多又尊貴。
And Balak sent yet again princes, more, and more honourable than they.

22:16    他們到了巴蘭那裡，對他說，西撥的兒子巴勒這樣說，求你不容什麼事攔阻你不到我這裡來，
And they came to Balaam, and said to him, Thus saith Balak the son of Zippor, Let nothing, I pray thee, hinder thee from coming unto me:

22:17    因為我必使你得極大的尊榮。你向我要什麼，我就給你什麼。只求你來為我咒詛這民。
For I will promote thee unto very great honour, and I will do whatsoever thou sayest unto me: come therefore, I pray thee, curse me this people.

22:18    巴蘭回答巴勒的臣僕說，巴勒就是將他滿屋的金銀給我，我行大事小事也不得越過耶和華我神的命。
And Balaam answered and said unto the servants of Balak, If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the word of the LORD my God, to do less or more.

22:19    現在我請你們今夜在這裡住宿，等我得知耶和華還要對我說什麼。
Now therefore, I pray you, tarry ye also here this night, that I may know what the LORD will say unto me more.

22:20    當夜，神臨到巴蘭那裡，說，這些人若來召你，你就起來同他們去，你只要遵行我對你所說的話。
And God came unto Balaam at night, and said unto him, If the men come to call thee, rise up, and go with them; but yet the word which I shall say unto thee, that shalt thou do.

22:21    巴蘭早晨起來，備上驢，和摩押的使臣一同去了。
And Balaam rose up in the morning, and saddled his ass, and went with the princes of Moab.

22:22    神因他去就發了怒。耶和華的使者站在路上敵擋他。他騎著驢，有兩個僕人跟隨他。
And God's anger was kindled because he went: and the angel of the LORD stood in the way for an adversary against him. Now he was riding upon his ass, and his two servants were with him.

22:23    驢看見耶和華的使者站在路上，手裡有拔出來的刀，就從路上跨進田間，巴蘭便打驢，要叫它迴轉上路。
And the ass saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and the ass turned aside out of the way, and went into the field: and Balaam smote the ass, to turn her into the way.

22:24    耶和華的使者就站在葡萄園的窄路上。這邊有牆，那邊也有牆。
But the angel of the LORD stood in a path of the vineyards, a wall being on this side, and a wall on that side.

22:25    驢看見耶和華的使者，就貼靠牆，將巴蘭的腳擠傷了。巴蘭又打驢。
And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she thrust herself unto the wall, and crushed Balaam's foot against the wall: and he smote her again.

22:26    耶和華的使者又往前去，站在狹窄之處，左右都沒有轉折的地方。
And the angel of the LORD went further, and stood in a narrow place, where was no way to turn either to the right hand or to the left.

22:27    驢看見耶和華的使者，就臥在巴蘭底下，巴蘭發怒，用杖打驢。
And when the ass saw the angel of the LORD, she fell down under Balaam: and Balaam's anger was kindled, and he smote the ass with a staff.

22:28    耶和華叫驢開口，對巴蘭說，我向你行了什麼，你竟打我這三次呢，
And the LORD opened the mouth of the ass, and she said unto Balaam, What have I done unto thee, that thou hast smitten me these three times?

22:29    巴蘭對驢說，因為你戲弄我，我恨不能手中有刀，把你殺了。
And Balaam said unto the ass, Because thou hast mocked me: I would there were a sword in mine hand, for now would I kill thee.

22:30    驢對巴蘭說，我不是你從小時直到今日所騎的驢嗎，我素常向你這樣行過嗎，巴蘭說，沒有。
And the ass said unto Balaam, Am not I thine ass, upon which thou hast ridden ever since I was thine unto this day? was I ever wont to do so unto thee? And he said, Nay.

22:31    當時，耶和華使巴蘭的眼目明亮，他就看見耶和華的使者站在路上，手裡有拔出來的刀，巴蘭便低頭俯伏在地。
Then the LORD opened the eyes of Balaam, and he saw the angel of the LORD standing in the way, and his sword drawn in his hand: and he bowed down his head, and fell flat on his face.

22:32    耶和華的使者對他說，你為何這三次打你的驢呢，我出來敵擋你，因你所行的，在我面前偏僻。
And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Wherefore hast thou smitten thine ass these three times? behold, I went out to withstand thee, because thy way is perverse before me:

22:33    驢看見我就三次從我面前偏過去。驢若沒有偏過去，我早把你殺了，留它存活。
And the ass saw me, and turned from me these three times: unless she had turned from me, surely now also I had slain thee, and saved her alive.

22:34    巴蘭對耶和華的使者說，我有罪了。我不知道你站在路上阻擋我。你若不喜歡我去，我就轉回。
And Balaam said unto the angel of the LORD, I have sinned; for I knew not that thou stoodest in the way against me: now therefore, if it displease thee, I will get me back again.

22:35    耶和華的使者對巴蘭說，你同這些人去吧。你只要說我對你說的話。於是巴蘭同著巴勒的使臣去了。
And the angel of the LORD said unto Balaam, Go with the men: but only the word that I shall speak unto thee, that thou shalt speak. So Balaam went with the princes of Balak.

22:36    巴勒聽見巴蘭來了，就往摩押京城去迎接他。這城是在邊界上，在亞嫩河旁。
And when Balak heard that Balaam was come, he went out to meet him unto a city of Moab, which is in the border of Arnon, which is in the utmost coast.

22:37    巴勒對巴蘭說，我不是急急地打發人到你那裡去召你嗎，你為何不到我這裡來呢，我豈不能使你得尊榮嗎，
And Balak said unto Balaam, Did I not earnestly send unto thee to call thee? wherefore camest thou not unto me? am I not able indeed to promote thee to honour?

22:38    巴蘭說，我已經到你這裡來了。現在我豈能擅自說什麼呢，神將什麼話傳給我，我就說什麼。
And Balaam said unto Balak, Lo, I am come unto thee: have I now any power at all to say any thing? the word that God putteth in my mouth, that shall I speak.

22:39    巴蘭和巴勒同行，來到基列胡瑣。
And Balaam went with Balak, and they came unto Kirjathhuzoth.

22:40    巴勒宰了（原文作獻）牛羊，送給巴蘭和陪伴的使臣。
And Balak offered oxen and sheep, and sent to Balaam, and to the princes that were with him.



22:41    到了早晨，巴勒領巴蘭到巴力的高處。巴蘭從那裡觀看以色列營的邊界。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Balak took Balaam, and brought him up into the high places of Baal, that thence he might see the utmost part of the people.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


23:1    巴蘭對巴勒說，你在這裡給我築七座壇，為我預備七隻公牛，七隻公羊。
And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven oxen and seven rams.

23:2    巴勒照巴蘭的話行了。巴勒和巴蘭在每座壇上獻一隻公牛，一隻公羊。
And Balak did as Balaam had spoken; and Balak and Balaam offered on every altar a bullock and a ram.

23:3    巴蘭對巴勒說，你站在你的燔祭旁邊，我且往前去，或者耶和華來迎見我。他指示我什麼，我必告訴你。於是巴蘭上一淨光的高處。
And Balaam said unto Balak, Stand by thy burnt offering, and I will go: peradventure the LORD will come to meet me: and whatsoever he sheweth me I will tell thee. And he went to an high place.

23:4    神迎見巴蘭。巴蘭說，我預備了七座壇，在每座壇上獻了一隻公牛，一隻公羊。
And God met Balaam: and he said unto him, I have prepared seven altars, and I have offered upon every altar a bullock and a ram.

23:5    耶和華將話傳給巴蘭，又說，你回到巴勒那裡，要如此如此說。
And the LORD put a word in Balaam's mouth, and said, Return unto Balak, and thus thou shalt speak.

23:6    他就回到巴勒那裡，見他同摩押的使臣都站在燔祭旁邊。
And he returned unto him, and, lo, he stood by his burnt sacrifice, he, and all the princes of Moab.

23:7    巴蘭便題起詩歌說，巴勒引我出亞蘭，摩押王引我出東山，說，來阿，為我咒詛雅各。來阿，怒罵以色列。
And he took up his parable, and said, Balak the king of Moab hath brought me from Aram, out of the mountains of the east, saying, Come, curse me Jacob, and come, defy Israel.

23:8    神沒有咒詛的，我焉能咒詛，耶和華沒有怒罵的，我焉能怒罵，
How shall I curse, whom God hath not cursed? or how shall I defy, whom the LORD hath not defied?

23:9    我從高峰看他，從小山望他。這是獨居的民，不列在萬民中。
For from the top of the rocks I see him, and from the hills I behold him: lo, the people shall dwell alone, and shall not be reckoned among the nations.

23:10    誰能數點雅各的塵土，誰能計算以色列的四分之一，我願如義人之死而死。我願如義人之終而終。
Who can count the dust of Jacob, and the number of the fourth part of Israel? Let me die the death of the righteous, and let my last end be like his!

23:11    巴勒對巴蘭說，你向我作的是什麼事呢，我領你來咒詛我的仇敵，不料，你竟為他們祝福。
And Balak said unto Balaam, What hast thou done unto me? I took thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast blessed them altogether.

23:12    他回答說，耶和華傳給我的話，我能不謹慎傳說嗎，
And he answered and said, Must I not take heed to speak that which the LORD hath put in my mouth?

23:13    巴勒說，求你同我往別處去，在那裡可以看見他們。你不能全看見，只能看見他們邊界上的人。在那裡要為我咒詛他們。
And Balak said unto him, Come, I pray thee, with me unto another place, from whence thou mayest see them: thou shalt see but the utmost part of them, and shalt not see them all: and curse me them from thence.

23:14    於是領巴蘭到了瑣腓田，上了毗斯迦山頂，築了七座壇。每座壇上獻一隻公牛，一隻公羊。
And he brought him into the field of Zophim, to the top of Pisgah, and built seven altars, and offered a bullock and a ram on every altar.

23:15    巴蘭對巴勒說，你站在這燔祭旁邊，等我往那邊去迎見耶和華。
And he said unto Balak, Stand here by thy burnt offering, while I meet the LORD yonder.



23:16    耶和華臨到巴蘭那裡，將話傳給他。又說，你回到巴勒那裡，要如此如此說。
And the LORD met Balaam, and put a word in his mouth, and said, Go again unto Balak, and say thus.

23:17    他就回到巴勒那裡，見他站在燔祭旁邊。摩押的使臣也和他在一處。巴勒問他說，耶和華說了什麼話呢，
And when he came to him, behold, he stood by his burnt offering, and the princes of Moab with him. And Balak said unto him, What hath the LORD spoken?

23:18    巴蘭就題詩歌說，巴勒，你起來聽。西撥的兒子，你聽我言。
And he took up his parable, and said, Rise up, Balak, and hear; hearken unto me, thou son of Zippor:

23:19    神非人，必不致說謊，也非人子，必不致後悔。他說話豈不照著行呢，他發言豈不要成就呢，
God is not a man, that he should lie; neither the son of man, that he should repent: hath he said, and shall he not do it? or hath he spoken, and shall he not make it good?

23:20    我奉命祝福。神也曾賜福，此事我不能翻轉。
Behold, I have received commandment to bless: and he hath blessed; and I cannot reverse it.

23:21    他未見雅各中有罪孽，也未見以色列中有奸惡。耶和華他的神和他同在。有歡呼王的聲音在他們中間。
He hath not beheld iniquity in Jacob, neither hath he seen perverseness in Israel: the LORD his God is with him, and the shout of a king is among them.

23:22    神領他們出埃及。他們似乎有野牛之力。
God brought them out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn.

23:23    斷沒有法術可以害雅各，也沒有占卜可以害以色列。現在必有人論及雅各，就是論及以色列說，神為他行了何等的大事。
Surely there is no enchantment against Jacob, neither is there any divination against Israel: according to this time it shall be said of Jacob and of Israel, What hath God wrought!

23:24    這民起來，彷佛母獅，挺身，好像公獅，未曾吃野食，未曾喝被傷者之血，決不躺臥。
Behold, the people shall rise up as a great lion, and lift up himself as a young lion: he shall not lie down until he eat of the prey, and drink the blood of the slain.

23:25    巴勒對巴蘭說，你一點不要咒詛他們，也不要為他們祝福。
And Balak said unto Balaam, Neither curse them at all, nor bless them at all.

23:26    巴蘭回答巴勒說，我豈不是告訴你說凡耶和華所說的，我必須遵行嗎，
But Balaam answered and said unto Balak, Told not I thee, saying, All that the LORD speaketh, that I must do?

23:27    巴勒對巴蘭說，來吧，我領你往別處去，或者神喜歡你在那裡為我咒詛他們。
And Balak said unto Balaam, Come, I pray thee, I will bring thee unto another place; peradventure it will please God that thou mayest curse me them from thence.

23:28    巴勒就領巴蘭到那下望曠野的毗珥山頂上。
And Balak brought Balaam unto the top of Peor, that looketh toward Jeshimon.

23:29    巴蘭對巴勒說，你在這裡為我築七座壇，又在這裡為我預備七隻公牛，七隻公羊。
And Balaam said unto Balak, Build me here seven altars, and prepare me here seven bullocks and seven rams.

23:30    巴勒就照巴蘭的話行，在每座壇上獻一隻公牛，一隻公羊。
And Balak did as Balaam had said, and offered a bullock and a ram on every altar.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


24:1    巴蘭見耶和華喜歡賜福與以色列，就不像前兩次去求法術，卻面向曠野。
And when Balaam saw that it pleased the LORD to bless Israel, he went not, as at other times, to seek for enchantments, but he set his face toward the wilderness.

24:2    巴蘭舉目，看見以色列人照著支派居住。神的靈就臨到他身上，
And Balaam lifted up his eyes, and he saw Israel abiding in his tents according to their tribes; and the spirit of God came upon him.

24:3    他便題起詩歌說，比珥的兒子巴蘭說，眼目閉住（閉住或作睜開）的人說，
And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said:

24:4    得聽神的言語，得見全能者的異象，眼目睜開而仆倒的人說，
He hath said, which heard the words of God, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having his eyes open:

24:5    雅各阿，你的帳棚何等華美。以色列阿，你的帳幕何其華麗。
How goodly are thy tents, O Jacob, and thy tabernacles, O Israel!

24:6    如接連的山谷，如河旁的園子，如耶和華所栽的沉香樹，如水邊的香柏木。
As the valleys are they spread forth, as gardens by the river's side, as the trees of lign aloes which the LORD hath planted, and as cedar trees beside the waters.

24:7    水要從他的桶裡流出。種子要撒在多水之處。他的王必超過亞甲。他的國必要振興。
He shall pour the water out of his buckets, and his seed shall be in many waters, and his king shall be higher than Agag, and his kingdom shall be exalted.

24:8    神領他出埃及。他似乎有野牛之力。他要吞吃敵國，折斷他們的骨頭，用箭射透他們。
God brought him forth out of Egypt; he hath as it were the strength of an unicorn: he shall eat up the nations his enemies, and shall break their bones, and pierce them through with his arrows.

24:9    他蹲如公獅，臥如母獅，誰敢惹他，凡給你祝福的，願他蒙福。凡咒詛你的，願他受咒詛。
He couched, he lay down as a lion, and as a great lion: who shall stir him up? Blessed is he that blesseth thee, and cursed is he that curseth thee.

24:10    巴勒向巴蘭生氣，就拍起手來，對巴蘭說，我召你來為我咒詛仇敵，不料，你這三次竟為他們祝福。
And Balak's anger was kindled against Balaam, and he smote his hands together: and Balak said unto Balaam, I called thee to curse mine enemies, and, behold, thou hast altogether blessed them these three times.

24:11    如今你快回本地去吧。我想使你得大尊榮，耶和華卻阻止你不得尊榮。
Therefore now flee thou to thy place: I thought to promote thee unto great honour; but, lo, the LORD hath kept thee back from honour.

24:12    巴蘭對巴勒說，我豈不是對你所差遣到我那裡的使者說，
And Balaam said unto Balak, Spake I not also to thy messengers which thou sentest unto me, saying,

24:13    巴勒就是將他滿屋的金銀給我，我也不得越過耶和華的命，憑自己的心意行好行歹。耶和華說什麼，我就要說什麼，
If Balak would give me his house full of silver and gold, I cannot go beyond the commandment of the LORD, to do either good or bad of mine own mind; but what the LORD saith, that will I speak?

24:14    現在我要回本族去。你來，我告訴你這民日後要怎樣待你的民。
And now, behold, I go unto my people: come therefore, and I will advertise thee what this people shall do to thy people in the latter days.

24:15    他就題起詩歌說，比珥的兒子巴蘭說，眼目閉住（閉住或作睜開）的人說，
And he took up his parable, and said, Balaam the son of Beor hath said, and the man whose eyes are open hath said:

24:16    得聽神的言語，明白至高者的意旨，看見全能者的異象，眼目睜開而仆倒的人說，
He hath said, which heard the words of God, and knew the knowledge of the most High, which saw the vision of the Almighty, falling into a trance, but having his eyes open:

24:17    我看他卻不在現時。我望他卻不在近日。有星要出於雅各，有杖要興於以色列，必打破摩押的四角，毀壞擾亂之子。
I shall see him, but not now: I shall behold him, but not nigh: there shall come a Star out of Jacob, and a Sceptre shall rise out of Israel, and shall smite the corners of Moab, and destroy all the children of Sheth.

24:18    他必得以東為基業，又得仇敵之地西珥為產業。以色列必行事勇敢。
And Edom shall be a possession, Seir also shall be a possession for his enemies; and Israel shall do valiantly.

24:19    有一位出於雅各的，必掌大權。他要除滅城中的餘民。
Out of Jacob shall come he that shall have dominion, and shall destroy him that remaineth of the city.

24:20    巴蘭觀看亞瑪力，就題起詩歌說，亞瑪力原為諸國之首，但他終必沉淪。
And when he looked on Amalek, he took up his parable, and said, Amalek was the first of the nations; but his latter end shall be that he perish for ever.

24:21    巴蘭觀看基尼人，就題起詩歌說，你的住處本是堅固。你的窩巢作在巖穴中。
And he looked on the Kenites, and took up his parable, and said, Strong is thy dwellingplace, and thou puttest thy nest in a rock.

24:22    然而基尼必至衰微，直到亞述把你擄去。
Nevertheless the Kenite shall be wasted, until Asshur shall carry thee away captive.

24:23    巴蘭又題起詩歌說，哀哉。神行這事，誰能得活，
And he took up his parable, and said, Alas, who shall live when God doeth this!

24:24    必有人乘船從基提界而來，苦害亞述，苦害希伯。他也必至沉淪。
And ships shall come from the coast of Chittim, and shall afflict Asshur, and shall afflict Eber, and he also shall perish for ever.

24:25    於是巴蘭起來，回他本地去。巴勒也回去了。
And Balaam rose up, and went and returned to his place: and Balak also went his way.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


25:1    以色列人住在什亭，百姓與摩押女子行起淫亂。
And Israel abode in Shittim, and the people began to commit whoredom with the daughters of Moab.

25:2    因為這女子叫百姓來，一同給她們的神獻祭，百姓就吃她們的祭物，跪拜她們的神。
And they called the people unto the sacrifices of their gods: and the people did eat, and bowed down to their gods.

25:3    以色列人與巴力毗珥連合，耶和華的怒氣就向以色列人發作。
And Israel joined himself unto Baalpeor: and the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel.

25:4    耶和華吩咐摩西說，將百姓中所有的族長在我面前對著日頭懸掛，使我向以色列人所發的怒氣可以消了。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Take all the heads of the people, and hang them up before the LORD against the sun, that the fierce anger of the LORD may be turned away from Israel.

25:5    於是摩西吩咐以色列的審判官說，凡屬你們的人，有與巴力毗珥連合的，你們各人要把他們殺了。
And Moses said unto the judges of Israel, Slay ye every one his men that were joined unto Baalpeor.

25:6    摩西和以色列全會眾正在會幕門前哭泣的時候，誰知，有以色列中的一個人，當他們眼前，帶著一個米甸女人到他弟兄那裡去。
And, behold, one of the children of Israel came and brought unto his brethren a Midianitish woman in the sight of Moses, and in the sight of all the congregation of the children of Israel, who were weeping before the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

25:7    祭司亞倫的孫子，以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈看見了，就從會中起來，手裡拿著槍，
And when Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, saw it, he rose up from among the congregation, and took a javelin in his hand;

25:8    跟隨那以色列人進亭子裡去，便將以色列人和那女人由腹中刺透。這樣，在以色列人中瘟疫就止息了。
And he went after the man of Israel into the tent, and thrust both of them through, the man of Israel, and the woman through her belly. So the plague was stayed from the children of Israel.

25:9    那時遭瘟疫死的，有二萬四千人。
And those that died in the plague were twenty and four thousand.

25:10    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

25:11    祭司亞倫的孫子，以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈，使我向以色列人所發的怒消了。因他在他們中間，以我的忌邪為心，使我不在忌邪中把他們除滅。
Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the priest, hath turned my wrath away from the children of Israel, while he was zealous for my sake among them, that I consumed not the children of Israel in my jealousy.

25:12    因此，你要說，我將我平安的約賜給他。
Wherefore say, Behold, I give unto him my covenant of peace:

25:13    這約要給他和他的後裔，作為永遠當祭司職任的約。因他為神，有忌邪的心，為以色列人贖罪。
And he shall have it, and his seed after him, even the covenant of an everlasting priesthood; because he was zealous for his God, and made an atonement for the children of Israel.

25:14    那與米甸女人一同被殺的以色列人，名叫心利，是撒路的兒子，是西緬一個宗族的首領。
Now the name of the Israelite that was slain, even that was slain with the Midianitish woman, was Zimri, the son of Salu, a prince of a chief house among the Simeonites.

25:15    那被殺的米甸女人，名叫哥斯比，是蘇珥的女兒。這蘇珥是米甸一個宗族的首領。
And the name of the Midianitish woman that was slain was Cozbi, the daughter of Zur; he was head over a people, and of a chief house in Midian.

25:16    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

25:17    你要擾害米甸人，擊殺他們。
Vex the Midianites, and smite them:

25:18    因為他們用詭計擾害你們，在毗珥的事上和他們的姊妹，米甸首領的女兒哥斯比的事上，用這詭計誘惑了你們。這哥斯比，當瘟疫流行的日子，因毗珥的事被殺了。
For they vex you with their wiles, wherewith they have beguiled you in the matter of Peor, and in the matter of Cozbi, the daughter of a prince of Midian, their sister, which was slain in the day of the plague for Peor's sake.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


26:1    瘟疫之後，耶和華曉諭摩西和祭司亞倫的兒子以利亞撒說，
And it came to pass after the plague, that the LORD spake unto Moses and unto Eleazar the son of Aaron the priest, saying,

26:2    你們要將以色列全會眾，按他們的宗族，凡以色列中從二十歲以外，能出去打仗的，計算總數。
Take the sum of all the congregation of the children of Israel, from twenty years old and upward, throughout their fathers' house, all that are able to go to war in Israel.

26:3    摩西和祭司以利亞撒在摩押平原與耶利哥相對的約旦河邊向以色列人說，
And Moses and Eleazar the priest spake with them in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,

26:4    將你們中間從二十歲以外的計算總數。是照耶和華吩咐出埃及地的摩西和以色列人的話。
Take the sum of the people, from twenty years old and upward; as the LORD commanded Moses and the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt.

26:5    以色列的長子是流便。流便的眾子，屬哈諾的，有哈諾族。屬法路的，有法路族。
Reuben, the eldest son of Israel: the children of Reuben; Hanoch, of whom cometh the family of the Hanochites: of Pallu, the family of the Palluites:

26:6    屬希斯倫的，有希斯倫族。屬迦米的，有迦米族。
Of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Carmi, the family of the Carmites.

26:7    這就是流便的各族。其中被數的，共有四萬三千七百三十名。
These are the families of the Reubenites: and they that were numbered of them were forty and three thousand and seven hundred and thirty.

26:8    法路的兒子是以利押。
And the sons of Pallu; Eliab.

26:9    以利押的眾子是尼母利，大坍，亞比蘭。這大坍，亞比蘭，就是從會中選召的，與可拉一黨同向耶和華爭鬧的時候也向摩西，亞倫爭鬧。
And the sons of Eliab; Nemuel, and Dathan, and Abiram. This is that Dathan and Abiram, which were famous in the congregation, who strove against Moses and against Aaron in the company of Korah, when they strove against the LORD:

26:10    地便開口吞了他們，和可拉，可拉的黨類一同死亡。那時火燒滅了二百五十個人。他們就作了警戒。
And the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up together with Korah, when that company died, what time the fire devoured two hundred and fifty men: and they became a sign.

26:11    然而可拉的眾子沒有死亡。
Notwithstanding the children of Korah died not.

26:12    按著家族，西緬的眾子，屬尼母利的，有尼母利族。屬雅憫的，有雅憫族。屬雅斤的，有雅斤族。
The sons of Simeon after their families: of Nemuel, the family of the Nemuelites: of Jamin, the family of the Jaminites: of Jachin, the family of the Jachinites:

26:13    屬謝拉的，有謝拉族。屬掃羅的，有掃羅族。
Of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites: of Shaul, the family of the Shaulites.

26:14    這就是西緬的各族，共有二萬二千二百名。
These are the families of the Simeonites, twenty and two thousand and two hundred.

26:15    按著家族，迦得的眾子，屬洗分的，有洗分族。屬哈基的，有哈基族。屬書尼的，有書尼族。
The children of Gad after their families: of Zephon, the family of the Zephonites: of Haggi, the family of the Haggites: of Shuni, the family of the Shunites:

26:16    屬阿斯尼的，有阿斯尼族。屬以利的，有以利族。
Of Ozni, the family of the Oznites: of Eri, the family of the Erites:

26:17    屬亞律的，有亞律族。屬亞列利的，有亞列利族。
Of Arod, the family of the Arodites: of Areli, the family of the Arelites.



26:18    這就是迦得子孫的各族，照他們中間被數的，共有四萬零五百名。
These are the families of the children of Gad according to those that were numbered of them, forty thousand and five hundred.

26:19    猶大的兒子是珥和俄南。這珥和俄南死在迦南地。
The sons of Judah were Er and Onan: and Er and Onan died in the land of Canaan.

26:20    按著家族，猶大其餘的眾子，屬示拉的，有示拉族。屬法勒斯的，有法勒斯族。屬謝拉的有謝拉族。
And the sons of Judah after their families were; of Shelah, the family of the Shelanites: of Pharez, the family of the Pharzites: of Zerah, the family of the Zarhites.

26:21    法勒斯的兒子，屬希斯倫的，有希斯倫族。屬哈母勒的，有哈母勒族。
And the sons of Pharez were; of Hezron, the family of the Hezronites: of Hamul, the family of the Hamulites.

26:22    這就是猶大的各族，照他們中間被數的，共有七萬六千五百名。
These are the families of Judah according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and sixteen thousand and five hundred.

26:23    按著家族，以薩迦的眾子，屬陀拉的，有陀拉族。屬普瓦的，有普瓦族。
Of the sons of Issachar after their families: of Tola, the family of the Tolaites: of Pua, the family of the Punites:

26:24    屬雅述的，有雅述族。屬伸侖的，有伸侖族。
Of Jashub, the family of the Jashubites: of Shimron, the family of the Shimronites.

26:25    這就是以薩迦的各族，照他們中間被數的，共有六萬四千三百名。
These are the families of Issachar according to those that were numbered of them, threescore and four thousand and three hundred.

26:26    按著家族，西布倫的眾子，屬西烈的，有西烈族。屬以倫的，有以倫族。屬雅利的，有雅利族。
Of the sons of Zebulun after their families: of Sered, the family of the Sardites: of Elon, the family of the Elonites: of Jahleel, the family of the Jahleelites.

26:27    這就是西布倫的各族，照他們中間被數的，共有六萬零五百名。
These are the families of the Zebulunites according to those that were numbered of them, threescore thousand and five hundred.

26:28    按著家族，約瑟的兒子有瑪拿西，以法蓮。
The sons of Joseph after their families were Manasseh and Ephraim.



26:29    瑪拿西的眾子，屬瑪吉的，有瑪吉族。瑪吉生基列。屬基列的，有基列族。
Of the sons of Manasseh: of Machir, the family of the Machirites: and Machir begat Gilead: of Gilead come the family of the Gileadites.

26:30    基列的眾子，屬伊以謝的，有伊以謝族。屬希勒的，有希勒族。
These are the sons of Gilead: of Jeezer, the family of the Jeezerites: of Helek, the family of the Helekites:

26:31    屬亞斯烈的，有亞斯烈族。屬示劍的，有示劍族。
And of Asriel, the family of the Asrielites: and of Shechem, the family of the Shechemites:

26:32    屬示米大的，有示米大族。屬希弗的，有希弗族。
And of Shemida, the family of the Shemidaites: and of Hepher, the family of the Hepherites.

26:33    希弗的兒子，西羅非哈沒兒子，只有女兒。西羅非哈女兒的名字就是瑪拉，挪阿，曷拉，密迦，得撒。
And Zelophehad the son of Hepher had no sons, but daughters: and the names of the daughters of Zelophehad were Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.

26:34    這就是瑪拿西的各族。他們中間被數的，共有五萬二千七百名。
These are the families of Manasseh, and those that were numbered of them, fifty and two thousand and seven hundred.

26:35    按著家族，以法蓮的眾子，屬書提拉的，有書提拉族。屬比結的，有比結族。屬他罕的，有他罕族。
These are the sons of Ephraim after their families: of Shuthelah, the family of the Shuthalhites: of Becher, the family of the Bachrites: of Tahan, the family of the Tahanites.

26:36    書提拉的眾子，屬以蘭的，有以蘭族。
And these are the sons of Shuthelah: of Eran, the family of the Eranites.

26:37    這就是以法蓮子孫的各族，照他們中間被數的，共有三萬二千五百名。按著家族，這都是約瑟的子孫。
These are the families of the sons of Ephraim according to those that were numbered of them, thirty and two thousand and five hundred. These are the sons of Joseph after their families.

26:38    按著家族，便雅憫的眾子，屬比拉的，有比拉族。屬亞實別的，有亞實別族。屬亞希蘭的，有亞希蘭族。
The sons of Benjamin after their families: of Bela, the family of the Belaites: of Ashbel, the family of the Ashbelites: of Ahiram, the family of the Ahiramites:

26:39    屬書反的，有書反族。屬戶反的，有戶反族。
Of Shupham, the family of the Shuphamites: of Hupham, the family of the Huphamites.

26:40    比拉的眾子是亞勒，乃幔。屬亞勒的，有亞勒族。屬乃幔的，有乃幔族。
And the sons of Bela were Ard and Naaman: of Ard, the family of the Ardites: and of Naaman, the family of the Naamites.

26:41    按著家族，這就是便雅憫的子孫，其中被數的，共有四萬五千六百名。
These are the sons of Benjamin after their families: and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and six hundred.

26:42    按著家族，但的眾子，屬書含的，有書含族。按著家族，這就是但的各族。
These are the sons of Dan after their families: of Shuham, the family of the Shuhamites. These are the families of Dan after their families.

26:43    照其中被數的，書含所有的各族，共有六萬四千四百名。
All the families of the Shuhamites, according to those that were numbered of them, were threescore and four thousand and four hundred.

26:44    按著家族，亞設的眾子，屬音拿的，有音拿族。屬亦施韋的，有亦施韋族。屬比利亞的，有比利亞族。
Of the children of Asher after their families: of Jimna, the family of the Jimnites: of Jesui, the family of the Jesuites: of Beriah, the family of the Beriites.

26:45    比利亞的眾子，屬希別的，有希別族。屬瑪結的，有瑪結族。
Of the sons of Beriah: of Heber, the family of the Heberites: of Malchiel, the family of the Malchielites.

26:46    亞設的女兒名叫西拉。
And the name of the daughter of Asher was Sarah.

26:47    這就是亞設子孫的各族，照他們中間被數的，共有五萬三千四百名。
These are the families of the sons of Asher according to those that were numbered of them; who were fifty and three thousand and four hundred.

26:48    按著家族，拿弗他利的眾子，屬雅薛的，有雅薛族。屬沽尼的，有沽尼族。
Of the sons of Naphtali after their families: of Jahzeel, the family of the Jahzeelites: of Guni, the family of the Gunites:

26:49    屬耶色的，有耶色族。屬示冷的，有示冷族。
Of Jezer, the family of the Jezerites: of Shillem, the family of the Shillemites.

26:50    按著家族，這就是拿弗他利的各族。他們中間被數的，共有四萬五千四百名。
These are the families of Naphtali according to their families: and they that were numbered of them were forty and five thousand and four hundred.

26:51    以色列人中被數的，共有六十萬零一千七百三十名。
These were the numbered of the children of Israel, six hundred thousand and a thousand seven hundred and thirty.

26:52    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

26:53    你要按著人名的數目將地分給這些人為業。
Unto these the land shall be divided for an inheritance according to the number of names.

26:54    人多的，你要把產業多分給他們。人少的，你要把產業少分給他們。要照被數的人數，把產業分給各人。
To many thou shalt give the more inheritance, and to few thou shalt give the less inheritance: to every one shall his inheritance be given according to those that were numbered of him.

26:55    雖是這樣，還要拈鬮分地。他們要按著祖宗各支派的名字承受為業。
Notwithstanding the land shall be divided by lot: according to the names of the tribes of their fathers they shall inherit.

26:56    要按著所拈的鬮，看人數多，人數少，把產業分給他們。
According to the lot shall the possession thereof be divided between many and few.



26:57    利未人，按著他們的各族被數的，屬革順的，有革順族。屬哥轄的，有哥轄族。屬米拉利的，有米拉利族。
And these are they that were numbered of the Levites after their families: of Gershon, the family of the Gershonites: of Kohath, the family of the Kohathites: of Merari, the family of the Merarites.

26:58    利未的各族有立尼族，希伯倫族，瑪利族，母示族，可拉族。哥轄生暗蘭。
These are the families of the Levites: the family of the Libnites, the family of the Hebronites, the family of the Mahlites, the family of the Mushites, the family of the Korathites. And Kohath begat Amram.

26:59    暗蘭的妻名叫約基別，是利未女子，生在埃及。她給暗蘭生了亞倫，摩西，並他們的姊姊米利暗。
And the name of Amram's wife was Jochebed, the daughter of Levi, whom her mother bare to Levi in Egypt: and she bare unto Amram Aaron and Moses, and Miriam their sister.

26:60    亞倫生拿答，亞比戶，以利亞撒，以他瑪。
And unto Aaron was born Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

26:61    拿答，亞比戶在耶和華面前獻凡火的時候就死了。
And Nadab and Abihu died, when they offered strange fire before the LORD.

26:62    利未人中，凡一個月以外，被數的男丁，共有二萬三千。他們本來沒有數在以色列人中。因為在以色列人中，沒有分給他們產業。
And those that were numbered of them were twenty and three thousand, all males from a month old and upward: for they were not numbered among the children of Israel, because there was no inheritance given them among the children of Israel.

26:63    這些就是被摩西和祭司以利亞撒所數的。他們在摩押平原與耶利哥相對的約旦河邊數點以色列人。
These are they that were numbered by Moses and Eleazar the priest, who numbered the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.

26:64    但被數的人中，沒有一個是摩西和祭司亞倫從前在西奈的曠野所數的以色列人，
But among these there was not a man of them whom Moses and Aaron the priest numbered, when they numbered the children of Israel in the wilderness of Sinai.

26:65    因為耶和華論到他們說，他們必要死在曠野。所以，除了耶孚尼的兒子迦勒和嫩的兒子約書亞以外，連一個人也沒有存留。
For the LORD had said of them, They shall surely die in the wilderness. And there was not left a man of them, save Caleb the son of Jephunneh, and Joshua the son of Nun.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


27:1    屬約瑟的兒子瑪拿西的各族，有瑪拿西的玄孫，瑪吉的曾孫，基列的孫子，希弗的兒子西羅非哈的女兒，名叫瑪拉，挪阿，曷拉，密迦，得撒。她們前來，
Then came the daughters of Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of Manasseh the son of Joseph: and these are the names of his daughters; Mahlah, Noah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Tirzah.

27:2    站在會幕門口，在摩西和祭司以利亞撒，並眾首領與全會眾面前，說，
And they stood before Moses, and before Eleazar the priest, and before the princes and all the congregation, by the door of the tabernacle of the congregation, saying,

27:3    我們的父親死在曠野。他不與可拉同黨聚集攻擊耶和華，是在自己罪中死的。他也沒有兒子。
Our father died in the wilderness, and he was not in the company of them that gathered themselves together against the LORD in the company of Korah; but died in his own sin, and had no sons.

27:4    為什麼因我們的父親沒有兒子就把他的名從他族中除掉呢，求你們在我們父親的弟兄中分給我們產業。
Why should the name of our father be done away from among his family, because he hath no son? Give unto us therefore a possession among the brethren of our father.

27:5    於是，摩西將她們的案件呈到耶和華面前。
And Moses brought their cause before the LORD.

27:6    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

27:7    西羅非哈的女兒說得有理。你定要在她們父親的弟兄中，把地分給她們為業。要將她們父親的產業歸給她們。
The daughters of Zelophehad speak right: thou shalt surely give them a possession of an inheritance among their father's brethren; and thou shalt cause the inheritance of their father to pass unto them.

27:8    你也要曉諭以色列人說，人若死了沒有兒子，就要把他的產業歸給他的女兒。
And thou shalt speak unto the children of Israel, saying, If a man die, and have no son, then ye shall cause his inheritance to pass unto his daughter.

27:9    他若沒有女兒，就要把他的產業給他的弟兄。
And if he have no daughter, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his brethren.

27:10    他若沒有弟兄，就要把他的產業給他父親的弟兄。
And if he have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his father's brethren.

27:11    他父親若沒有弟兄，就要把他的產業給他族中最近的親屬，他便要得為業。這要作以色列人的律例典章，是照耶和華吩咐摩西的。
And if his father have no brethren, then ye shall give his inheritance unto his kinsman that is next to him of his family, and he shall possess it: and it shall be unto the children of Israel a statute of judgment, as the LORD commanded Moses.

27:12    耶和華對摩西說，你上這亞巴琳山，觀看我所賜給以色列人的地。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Get thee up into this mount Abarim, and see the land which I have given unto the children of Israel.

27:13    看了以後，你也必歸到你列祖（原文作本民）那裡，像你哥哥亞倫一樣。
And when thou hast seen it, thou also shalt be gathered unto thy people, as Aaron thy brother was gathered.

27:14    因為你們在尋的曠野，當會眾爭鬧的時候，違背了我的命，沒有在湧水之地，會眾眼前尊我為聖。（這水就是尋的曠野加低斯米利巴水。）
For ye rebelled against my commandment in the desert of Zin, in the strife of the congregation, to sanctify me at the water before their eyes: that is the water of Meribah in Kadesh in the wilderness of Zin.

27:15    摩西對耶和華說，
And Moses spake unto the LORD, saying,

27:16    願耶和華萬人之靈的神，立一個人治理會眾，
Let the LORD, the God of the spirits of all flesh, set a man over the congregation,

27:17    可以在他們面前出入，也可以引導他們，免得耶和華的會眾如同沒有牧人的羊群一般。
Which may go out before them, and which may go in before them, and which may lead them out, and which may bring them in; that the congregation of the LORD be not as sheep which have no shepherd.

27:18    耶和華對摩西說，嫩的兒子約書亞，是心中有聖靈的，你將他領來按手在他頭上，
And the LORD said unto Moses, Take thee Joshua the son of Nun, a man in whom is the spirit, and lay thine hand upon him;

27:19    使他站在祭司以利亞撒和全會眾面前，囑咐他，
And set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation; and give him a charge in their sight.

27:20    又將你的尊榮給他幾分，使以色列全會眾都聽從他。
And thou shalt put some of thine honour upon him, that all the congregation of the children of Israel may be obedient.

27:21    他要站在祭司以利亞撒面前。以利亞撒要憑烏陵的判斷，在耶和華面前為他求問。他和以色列全會眾都要遵以利亞撒的命出入。
And he shall stand before Eleazar the priest, who shall ask counsel for him after the judgment of Urim before the LORD: at his word shall they go out, and at his word they shall come in, both he, and all the children of Israel with him, even all the congregation.

27:22    於是摩西照耶和華所吩咐的將約書亞領來，使他站在祭司以利亞撒和全會眾面前。
And Moses did as the LORD commanded him: and he took Joshua, and set him before Eleazar the priest, and before all the congregation:

27:23    按手在他頭上，囑咐他，是照耶和華藉摩西所說的話。
And he laid his hands upon him, and gave him a charge, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


28:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

28:2    你要吩咐以色列人說，獻給我的供物，就是獻給我作馨香火祭的食物，你們要按日期獻給我。
Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, My offering, and my bread for my sacrifices made by fire, for a sweet savour unto me, shall ye observe to offer unto me in their due season.

28:3    又要對他們說，你們要獻給耶和華的火祭，就是沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔，每日兩隻，作為常獻的燔祭。
And thou shalt say unto them, This is the offering made by fire which ye shall offer unto the LORD; two lambs of the first year without spot day by day, for a continual burnt offering.

28:4    早晨要獻一隻，黃昏的時候要獻一隻。
The one lamb shalt thou offer in the morning, and the other lamb shalt thou offer at even;

28:5    又用細面伊法十分之一，並搗成的油一欣四分之一，調和作為素祭。
And a tenth part of an ephah of flour for a meat offering, mingled with the fourth part of an hin of beaten oil.

28:6    這是西奈山所命定為常獻的燔祭，是獻給耶和華為馨香的火祭。
It is a continual burnt offering, which was ordained in mount Sinai for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

28:7    為這一隻羊羔，要同獻奠祭的酒一欣四分之一。在聖所中，你要將醇酒奉給耶和華為奠祭。
And the drink offering thereof shall be the fourth part of an hin for the one lamb: in the holy place shalt thou cause the strong wine to be poured unto the LORD for a drink offering.

28:8    晚上，你要獻那一隻羊羔，必照早晨的素祭和同獻的奠祭獻上，作為馨香的火祭，獻給耶和華。
And the other lamb shalt thou offer at even: as the meat offering of the morning, and as the drink offering thereof, thou shalt offer it, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD.

28:9    當安息日，要獻兩隻沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔，並用調油的細面伊法十分之二為素祭，又將同獻的奠祭獻上。
And on the sabbath day two lambs of the first year without spot, and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, and the drink offering thereof:

28:10    這是每安息日獻的燔祭。那常獻的燔祭和同獻的奠祭在外。
This is the burnt offering of every sabbath, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

28:11    每月朔，你們要將兩隻公牛犢，一隻公綿羊，七隻沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔，獻給耶和華為燔祭。
And in the beginnings of your months ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, seven lambs of the first year without spot;

28:12    每隻公牛要用調油的細面伊法十分之三作為素祭。那隻公羊也用調油的細面伊法十分之二作為素祭。
And three tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one bullock; and two tenth deals of flour for a meat offering, mingled with oil, for one ram;

28:13    每隻羊羔要用調油的細面伊法十分之一作為素祭和馨香的燔祭，是獻給耶和華的火祭。
And a several tenth deal of flour mingled with oil for a meat offering unto one lamb; for a burnt offering of a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

28:14    一隻公牛要奠酒半欣，一隻公羊要奠酒一欣三分之一，一隻羊羔也奠酒一欣四分之一。這是每月的燔祭，一年之中要月月如此。
And their drink offerings shall be half an hin of wine unto a bullock, and the third part of an hin unto a ram, and a fourth part of an hin unto a lamb: this is the burnt offering of every month throughout the months of the year.

28:15    又要將一隻公山羊為贖罪祭，獻給耶和華。要獻在常獻的燔祭和同獻的奠祭以外。
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering unto the LORD shall be offered, beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

28:16    正月十四日是耶和華的逾越節。
And in the fourteenth day of the first month is the passover of the LORD.

28:17    這月十五日是節期，要吃無酵餅七日。
And in the fifteenth day of this month is the feast: seven days shall unleavened bread be eaten.

28:18    第一日當有聖會。什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
In the first day shall be an holy convocation; ye shall do no manner of servile work therein:

28:19    當將公牛犢兩隻，公綿羊一隻，一歲的公羊羔七隻，都要沒有殘疾的，用火獻給耶和華為燔祭。
But ye shall offer a sacrifice made by fire for a burnt offering unto the LORD; two young bullocks, and one ram, and seven lambs of the first year: they shall be unto you without blemish:

28:20    同獻的素祭用調油的細面。為一隻公牛要獻伊法十分之三。為一隻公羊要獻伊法十分之二。
And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil: three tenth deals shall ye offer for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram;

28:21    為那七隻羊羔，每隻要獻伊法十分之一。
A several tenth deal shalt thou offer for every lamb, throughout the seven lambs:

28:22    並獻一隻公山羊作贖罪祭，為你們贖罪。
And one goat for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you.

28:23    你們獻這些，要在早晨常獻的燔祭以外。
Ye shall offer these beside the burnt offering in the morning, which is for a continual burnt offering.

28:24    一連七日，每日要照這例把馨香火祭的食物獻給耶和華，是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的奠祭以外。
After this manner ye shall offer daily, throughout the seven days, the meat of the sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: it shall be offered beside the continual burnt offering, and his drink offering.

28:25    第七日當有聖會，什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
And on the seventh day ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work.

28:26    七七節莊稼初熟，你們獻新素祭給耶和華的日子，當有聖會。什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
Also in the day of the firstfruits, when ye bring a new meat offering unto the LORD, after your weeks be out, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work:

28:27    只要將公牛犢兩隻，公綿羊一隻，一歲的公羊羔七隻，作為馨香的燔祭獻給耶和華。
But ye shall offer the burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; two young bullocks, one ram, seven lambs of the first year;

28:28    同獻的素祭用調油的細面。為每隻公牛要獻伊法十分之三。為一隻公羊要獻伊法十分之二。
And their meat offering of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto one bullock, two tenth deals unto one ram,

28:29    為那七隻羊羔，每隻要獻伊法十分之一。
A several tenth deal unto one lamb, throughout the seven lambs;

28:30    並獻一隻公山羊為你們贖罪。
And one kid of the goats, to make an atonement for you.

28:31    這些，你們要獻在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外，都要沒有殘疾的。
Ye shall offer them beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, (they shall be unto you without blemish) and their drink offerings.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


29:1    七月初一日，你們當有聖會。什麼勞碌的工都不可作，是你們當守為吹角的日子。
And in the seventh month, on the first day of the month, ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work: it is a day of blowing the trumpets unto you.

29:2    你們要將公牛犢一隻，公綿羊一隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔七隻，作為馨香的燔祭獻給耶和華。
And ye shall offer a burnt offering for a sweet savour unto the LORD; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year without blemish:

29:3    同獻的素祭用調油的細面。為一隻公牛要獻伊法十分之三。為一隻公羊要獻伊法十分之二。
And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals for a bullock, and two tenth deals for a ram,

29:4    為那七隻羊羔，每隻要獻伊法十分之一。
And one tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:

29:5    又獻一隻公山羊作贖罪祭，為你們贖罪。
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering, to make an atonement for you:

29:6    這些是在月朔的燔祭和同獻的素祭，並常獻的燔祭與同獻的素祭，以及燒例同獻的奠祭以外，都作為馨香的火祭獻給耶和華。
Beside the burnt offering of the month, and his meat offering, and the daily burnt offering, and his meat offering, and their drink offerings, according unto their manner, for a sweet savour, a sacrifice made by fire unto the LORD.

29:7    七月初十日，你們當有聖會。要刻苦己心，什麼工都不可作。
And ye shall have on the tenth day of this seventh month an holy convocation; and ye shall afflict your souls: ye shall not do any work therein:

29:8    只要將公牛犢一隻，公綿羊一隻，一歲的公羊羔七隻，都要沒有殘疾的，作為馨香的燔祭獻給耶和華。
But ye shall offer a burnt offering unto the LORD for a sweet savour; one young bullock, one ram, and seven lambs of the first year; they shall be unto you without blemish:

29:9    同獻的素祭用調油的細面，為一隻公牛要獻伊法十分之三。為一隻公羊要獻伊法十分之二。
And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals to a bullock, and two tenth deals to one ram,

29:10    為那七隻羊羔，每隻要獻伊法十分之一。
A several tenth deal for one lamb, throughout the seven lambs:

29:11    又獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在贖罪祭和常獻的燔祭，與同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
One kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the sin offering of atonement, and the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering of it, and their drink offerings.

29:12    七月十五日，你們當有聖會。什麼勞碌的工都不可作，要向耶和華守節七日。
And on the fifteenth day of the seventh month ye shall have an holy convocation; ye shall do no servile work, and ye shall keep a feast unto the LORD seven days:

29:13    又要將公牛犢十三隻，公綿羊兩隻，一歲的公羊羔十四隻，都要沒有殘疾的，用火獻給耶和華為馨香的燔祭。
And ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD; thirteen young bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year; they shall be without blemish:

29:14    同獻的素祭用調油的細面。為那十三隻公牛，每隻要獻伊法十分之三。為那兩隻公羊，每隻要獻伊法十分之二。
And their meat offering shall be of flour mingled with oil, three tenth deals unto every bullock of the thirteen bullocks, two tenth deals to each ram of the two rams,

29:15    為那十四隻羊羔，每隻要獻伊法十分之一。
And a several tenth deal to each lamb of the fourteen lambs:

29:16    並獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭，這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:17    第二日要獻公牛犢十二隻，公綿羊兩隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔十四隻。
And on the second day ye shall offer twelve young bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:

29:18    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:19    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and the meat offering thereof, and their drink offerings.

29:20    第三日要獻公牛十一隻，公羊兩隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔十四隻。
And on the third day eleven bullocks, two rams, fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish;

29:21    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:22    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:23    第四日要獻公牛十隻，公羊兩隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔十四隻。
And on the fourth day ten bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:

29:24    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:25    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one kid of the goats for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:26    第五日要獻公牛九隻，公羊兩隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔十四隻。
And on the fifth day nine bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without spot:

29:27    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:28    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:29    第六日要獻公牛八隻，公羊兩隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔十四隻。
And on the sixth day eight bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:

29:30    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:31    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:32    第七日要獻公牛七隻，公羊兩隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔十四隻。
And on the seventh day seven bullocks, two rams, and fourteen lambs of the first year without blemish:

29:33    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
And their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullocks, for the rams, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:34    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:35    第八日你們當有嚴肅會。什麼勞碌的工都不可作。
On the eighth day ye shall have a solemn assembly: ye shall do no servile work therein:

29:36    只要將公牛一隻，公羊一隻，沒有殘疾，一歲的公羊羔七隻作火祭，獻給耶和華為馨香的燔祭。
But ye shall offer a burnt offering, a sacrifice made by fire, of a sweet savour unto the LORD: one bullock, one ram, seven lambs of the first year without blemish:

29:37    併為公牛，公羊，和羊羔，按數照例，獻同獻的素祭和同獻的奠祭。
Their meat offering and their drink offerings for the bullock, for the ram, and for the lambs, shall be according to their number, after the manner:

29:38    又要獻一隻公山羊為贖罪祭。這是在常獻的燔祭和同獻的素祭並同獻的奠祭以外。
And one goat for a sin offering; beside the continual burnt offering, and his meat offering, and his drink offering.

29:39    這些祭要在你們的節期獻給耶和華，都在所許的願並甘心所獻的以外，作為你們的燔祭，素祭，奠祭，和平安祭。
These things ye shall do unto the LORD in your set feasts, beside your vows, and your freewill offerings, for your burnt offerings, and for your meat offerings, and for your drink offerings, and for your peace offerings.

29:40    於是，摩西照耶和華所吩咐他的一切話告訴以色列人。
And Moses told the children of Israel according to all that the LORD commanded Moses.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


30:1    摩西曉諭以色列各支派的首領說，耶和華所吩咐的乃是這樣，
And Moses spake unto the heads of the tribes concerning the children of Israel, saying, This is the thing which the LORD hath commanded.

30:2    人若向耶和華許願或起誓，要約束自己，就不可食言，必要按口中所出的一切話行。
If a man vow a vow unto the LORD, or swear an oath to bind his soul with a bond; he shall not break his word, he shall do according to all that proceedeth out of his mouth.

30:3    女子年幼，還在父家的時候，若向耶和華許願，要約束自己，
If a woman also vow a vow unto the LORD, and bind herself by a bond, being in her father's house in her youth;

30:4    她父親也聽見她所許的願並約束自己的話，卻向她默默不言，她所許的願並約束自己的話就都要為定。
And her father hear her vow, and her bond wherewith she hath bound her soul, and her father shall hold his peace at her: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she hath bound her soul shall stand.

30:5    但她父親聽見的日子若不應承她所許的願和約束自己的話，就都不得為定。耶和華也必赦免她，因為她父親不應承。
But if her father disallow her in the day that he heareth; not any of her vows, or of her bonds wherewith she hath bound her soul, shall stand: and the LORD shall forgive her, because her father disallowed her.

30:6    她若出了嫁，有願在身，或是口中出了約束自己的冒失話，
And if she had at all an husband, when she vowed, or uttered ought out of her lips, wherewith she bound her soul;

30:7    她丈夫聽見的日子，卻向她默默不言，她所許的願並約束自己的話就都要為定。
And her husband heard it, and held his peace at her in the day that he heard it: then her vows shall stand, and her bonds wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.

30:8    但她丈夫聽見的日子，若不應承，就算廢了她所許的願和她出口約束自己的冒失話。耶和華也必赦免她。
But if her husband disallowed her on the day that he heard it; then he shall make her vow which she vowed, and that which she uttered with her lips, wherewith she bound her soul, of none effect: and the LORD shall forgive her.

30:9    寡婦或是被休的婦人所許的願，就是她約束自己的話，都要為定。
But every vow of a widow, and of her that is divorced, wherewith they have bound their souls, shall stand against her.

30:10    她若在丈夫家裡許了願或起了誓，約束自己，
And if she vowed in her husband's house, or bound her soul by a bond with an oath;

30:11    丈夫聽見，卻向她默默不言，也沒有不應承，她所許的願並約束自己的話就都要為定。
And her husband heard it, and held his peace at her, and disallowed her not: then all her vows shall stand, and every bond wherewith she bound her soul shall stand.

30:12    丈夫聽見的日子，若把這兩樣全廢了，婦人口中所許的願或是約束自己的話就都不得為定，因她丈夫已經把這兩樣廢了。耶和華也必赦免她。
But if her husband hath utterly made them void on the day he heard them; then whatsoever proceeded out of her lips concerning her vows, or concerning the bond of her soul, shall not stand: her husband hath made them void; and the LORD shall forgive her.

30:13    凡她所許的願和刻苦約束自己所起的誓，她丈夫可以堅定，也可以廢去。
Every vow, and every binding oath to afflict the soul, her husband may establish it, or her husband may make it void.

30:14    倘若她丈夫天天向她默默不言，就算是堅定她所許的願和約束自己的話。因丈夫聽見的日子向她默默不言，就使這兩樣堅定。
But if her husband altogether hold his peace at her from day to day; then he establisheth all her vows, or all her bonds, which are upon her: he confirmeth them, because he held his peace at her in the day that he heard them.

30:15    但她丈夫聽見以後，若使這兩樣全廢了，就要擔當婦人的罪孽。
But if he shall any ways make them void after that he hath heard them; then he shall bear her iniquity.

30:16    這是丈夫待妻子，父親待女兒，女兒年幼，還在父家，耶和華所吩咐摩西的律例。
These are the statutes, which the LORD commanded Moses, between a man and his wife, between the father and his daughter, being yet in her youth in her father's house.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


31:1    耶和華吩咐摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

31:2    你要在米甸人身上報以色列人的仇，後來要歸到你列祖（原文作本民）那裡。
Avenge the children of Israel of the Midianites: afterward shalt thou be gathered unto thy people.

31:3    摩西吩咐百姓說，要從你們中間叫人帶兵器出去攻擊米甸，好在米甸人身上為耶和華報仇。
And Moses spake unto the people, saying, Arm some of yourselves unto the war, and let them go against the Midianites, and avenge the LORD of Midian.

31:4    從以色列眾支派中，每支派要打發一千人去打仗。
Of every tribe a thousand, throughout all the tribes of Israel, shall ye send to the war.

31:5    於是從以色列千萬人中，每支派交出一千人，共一萬二千人，帶著兵器預備打仗。
So there were delivered out of the thousands of Israel, a thousand of every tribe, twelve thousand armed for war.

31:6    摩西就打發每支派的一千人去打仗，並打發祭司以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈同去。非尼哈手裡拿著聖所的器皿和吹大聲的號筒。
And Moses sent them to the war, a thousand of every tribe, them and Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, to the war, with the holy instruments, and the trumpets to blow in his hand.

31:7    他們就照耶和華所吩咐摩西的，與米甸人打仗，殺了所有的男丁。
And they warred against the Midianites, as the LORD commanded Moses; and they slew all the males.

31:8    在所殺的人中，殺了米甸的五王，就是以未，利金，蘇珥，戶珥，利巴，又用刀殺了比珥的兒子巴蘭。
And they slew the kings of Midian, beside the rest of them that were slain; namely, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, five kings of Midian: Balaam also the son of Beor they slew with the sword.

31:9    以色列人擄了米甸人的婦女孩子，並將他們的牲畜，羊群，和所有的財物都奪了來，當作擄物，
And the children of Israel took all the women of Midian captives, and their little ones, and took the spoil of all their cattle, and all their flocks, and all their goods.

31:10    又用火焚燒他們所住的城邑和所有的營寨，
And they burnt all their cities wherein they dwelt, and all their goodly castles, with fire.

31:11    把一切所奪的，所擄的，連人帶牲畜都帶了去，
And they took all the spoil, and all the prey, both of men and of beasts.

31:12    將所擄的人，所奪的牲畜，財物，都帶到摩押平原，在約旦河邊與耶利哥相對的營盤，交給摩西和祭司以利亞撒，並以色列的會眾。
And they brought the captives, and the prey, and the spoil, unto Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and unto the congregation of the children of Israel, unto the camp at the plains of Moab, which are by Jordan near Jericho.

31:13    摩西和祭司以利亞撒，並會眾一切的首領，都出到營外迎接他們。
And Moses, and Eleazar the priest, and all the princes of the congregation, went forth to meet them without the camp.

31:14    摩西向打仗回來的軍長，就是千夫長，百夫長，發怒，
And Moses was wroth with the officers of the host, with the captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, which came from the battle.

31:15    對他們說，你們要存留這一切婦女的活命嗎，
And Moses said unto them, Have ye saved all the women alive?

31:16    這些婦女因巴蘭的計謀，叫以色列人在毗珥的事上得罪耶和華，以致耶和華的會眾遭遇瘟疫。
Behold, these caused the children of Israel, through the counsel of Balaam, to commit trespass against the LORD in the matter of Peor, and there was a plague among the congregation of the LORD.

31:17    所以，你們要把一切的男孩和所有已嫁的女子都殺了。
Now therefore kill every male among the little ones, and kill every woman that hath known man by lying with him.

31:18    但女孩子中，凡沒有出嫁的，你們都可以存留她的活命。
But all the women children, that have not known a man by lying with him, keep alive for yourselves.

31:19    你們要在營外駐紮七日。凡殺了人的，和一切摸了被殺的，並你們所擄來的人口，第三日，第七日，都要潔淨自己，
And do ye abide without the camp seven days: whosoever hath killed any person, and whosoever hath touched any slain, purify both yourselves and your captives on the third day, and on the seventh day.

31:20    也要因一切的衣服，皮物，山羊毛織的物，和各樣的木器，潔淨自己。
And purify all your raiment, and all that is made of skins, and all work of goats' hair, and all things made of wood.

31:21    祭司以利亞撒對打仗回來的兵丁說，耶和華所吩咐摩西律法中的條例乃是這樣，
And Eleazar the priest said unto the men of war which went to the battle, This is the ordinance of the law which the LORD commanded Moses;

31:22    金，銀，銅，鐵，錫，鉛，
Only the gold, and the silver, the brass, the iron, the tin, and the lead,

31:23    凡能見火的，你們要叫它經火就為潔淨，然而還要用除汙穢的水潔淨它。凡不能見火的，你們要叫它過水。
Every thing that may abide the fire, ye shall make it go through the fire, and it shall be clean: nevertheless it shall be purified with the water of separation: and all that abideth not the fire ye shall make go through the water.

31:24    第七日，你們要洗衣服，就為潔淨，然後可以進營。
And ye shall wash your clothes on the seventh day, and ye shall be clean, and afterward ye shall come into the camp.

31:25    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

31:26    你和祭司以利亞撒，並會眾的各族長，要計算所擄來的人口和牲畜的總數。
Take the sum of the prey that was taken, both of man and of beast, thou, and Eleazar the priest, and the chief fathers of the congregation:

31:27    把所擄來的分作兩半，一半歸與出去打仗的精兵，一半歸與全會眾。
And divide the prey into two parts; between them that took the war upon them, who went out to battle, and between all the congregation:

31:28    又要從出去打仗所得的人口，牛，驢，羊群中，每五百取一，作為貢物奉給耶和華。
And levy a tribute unto the Lord of the men of war which went out to battle: one soul of five hundred, both of the persons, and of the beeves, and of the asses, and of the sheep:

31:29    從他們一半之中，要取出來交給祭司以利亞撒，作為耶和華的舉祭。
Take it of their half, and give it unto Eleazar the priest, for an heave offering of the LORD.

31:30    從以色列人的一半之中，就是從人口，牛，驢，羊群，各樣牲畜中，每五十取一，交給看守耶和華帳幕的利未人。
And of the children of Israel's half, thou shalt take one portion of fifty, of the persons, of the beeves, of the asses, and of the flocks, of all manner of beasts, and give them unto the Levites, which keep the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD.

31:31    於是摩西和祭司以利亞撒照耶和華所吩咐摩西的行了。
And Moses and Eleazar the priest did as the LORD commanded Moses.

31:32    除了兵丁所奪的財物以外，所擄來的，羊六十七萬五千只。
And the booty, being the rest of the prey which the men of war had caught, was six hundred thousand and seventy thousand and five thousand sheep,

31:33    牛七萬二千隻。
And threescore and twelve thousand beeves,

31:34    驢六萬一千匹。
And threescore and one thousand asses,

31:35    女人共三萬二千口，都是沒有出嫁的。
And thirty and two thousand persons in all, of women that had not known man by lying with him.

31:36    出去打仗之人的分，就是他們所得的那一半，共計羊三十三萬七千五百隻，
And the half, which was the portion of them that went out to war, was in number three hundred thousand and seven and thirty thousand and five hundred sheep:

31:37    從其中歸耶和華為貢物的，有六百七十五隻。
And the LORD's tribute of the sheep was six hundred and threescore and fifteen.

31:38    牛三萬六千隻，從其中歸耶和華為貢物的，有七十二隻。
And the beeves were thirty and six thousand; of which the LORD's tribute was threescore and twelve.

31:39    驢三萬零五百匹，從其中歸耶和華為貢物的，有六十一匹。
And the asses were thirty thousand and five hundred; of which the LORD's tribute was threescore and one.

31:40    人一萬六千口，從其中歸耶和華的，有三十二口。
And the persons were sixteen thousand; of which the LORD's tribute was thirty and two persons.

31:41    摩西把貢物，就是歸與耶和華的舉祭，交給祭司以利亞撒，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
And Moses gave the tribute, which was the LORD's heave offering, unto Eleazar the priest, as the LORD commanded Moses.

31:42    以色列人所得的那一半，就是摩西從打仗的人取來分給他們的。
And of the children of Israel's half, which Moses divided from the men that warred,

31:43    （會眾的那一半有，羊三十三萬七千五百隻。
(Now the half that pertained unto the congregation was three hundred thousand and thirty thousand and seven thousand and five hundred sheep,

31:44    牛三萬六千隻。
And thirty and six thousand beeves,

31:45    驢三萬零五百匹。
And thirty thousand asses and five hundred,

31:46    人一萬六千口。）
And sixteen thousand persons;)

31:47    無論是人口是牲畜，摩西每五十取一，交給看守耶和華帳幕的利未人，是照耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
Even of the children of Israel's half, Moses took one portion of fifty, both of man and of beast, and gave them unto the Levites, which kept the charge of the tabernacle of the LORD; as the LORD commanded Moses.

31:48    帶領千軍的各軍長，就是千夫長，百夫長，都近前來見摩西，
And the officers which were over thousands of the host, the captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds, came near unto Moses:

31:49    對他說，僕人權下的兵已經計算總數，並不短少一人。
And they said unto Moses, Thy servants have taken the sum of the men of war which are under our charge, and there lacketh not one man of us.

31:50    如今我們將各人所得的金器，就是腳鏈子，鐲子，列印的戒指，耳環，手釧，都送來為耶和華的供物，好在耶和華面前為我們的生命贖罪。
We have therefore brought an oblation for the LORD, what every man hath gotten, of jewels of gold, chains, and bracelets, rings, earrings, and tablets, to make an atonement for our souls before the LORD.

31:51    摩西和祭司以利亞撒就收了他們的金子，都是打成的器皿。
And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of them, even all wrought jewels.

31:52    千夫長，百夫長所獻給耶和華為舉祭的金子共有一萬六千七百五十舍客勒。
And all the gold of the offering that they offered up to the LORD, of the captains of thousands, and of the captains of hundreds, was sixteen thousand seven hundred and fifty shekels.

31:53    各兵丁都為自己奪了財物。
(For the men of war had taken spoil, every man for himself.)

31:54    摩西和祭司以利亞撒收了千夫長，百夫長的金子，就帶進會幕，在耶和華面前作為以色列人的紀念。
And Moses and Eleazar the priest took the gold of the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and brought it into the tabernacle of the congregation, for a memorial for the children of Israel before the LORD.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


32:1    流便子孫和迦得子孫的牲畜極其眾多。他們看見雅謝地和基列地是可牧放牲畜之地，
Now the children of Reuben and the children of Gad had a very great multitude of cattle: and when they saw the land of Jazer, and the land of Gilead, that, behold, the place was a place for cattle;

32:2    就來見摩西和祭司以利亞撒，並會眾的首領，說，
The children of Gad and the children of Reuben came and spake unto Moses, and to Eleazar the priest, and unto the princes of the congregation, saying,

32:3    亞大錄，底本，雅謝，寧拉，希實本，以利亞利，示班，尼波，比穩，
Ataroth, and Dibon, and Jazer, and Nimrah, and Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Shebam, and Nebo, and Beon,

32:4    就是耶和華在以色列會眾前面所攻取之地，是可牧放牲畜之地，你僕人也有牲畜。
Even the country which the LORD smote before the congregation of Israel, is a land for cattle, and thy servants have cattle:

32:5    又說，我們若在你眼前蒙恩，求你把這地給我們為業，不要領我們過約旦河。
Wherefore, said they, if we have found grace in thy sight, let this land be given unto thy servants for a possession, and bring us not over Jordan.

32:6    摩西對迦得子孫和流便子孫說，難道你們的弟兄去打仗，你們竟坐在這裡嗎，
And Moses said unto the children of Gad and to the children of Reuben, Shall your brethren go to war, and shall ye sit here?

32:7    你們為何使以色列人灰心喪膽，不過去進入耶和華所賜給他們的那地呢，
And wherefore discourage ye the heart of the children of Israel from going over into the land which the LORD hath given them?

32:8    我先前從加低斯巴尼亞打發你們先祖去窺探那地，他們也是這樣行。
Thus did your fathers, when I sent them from Kadeshbarnea to see the land.

32:9    他們上以實各谷，去窺探那地回來的時候，使以色列人灰心喪膽，不進入耶和華所賜給他們的地。
For when they went up unto the valley of Eshcol, and saw the land, they discouraged the heart of the children of Israel, that they should not go into the land which the LORD had given them.

32:10    當日，耶和華的怒氣發作，就起誓說，
And the LORD's anger was kindled the same time, and he sware, saying,

32:11    凡從埃及上來，二十歲以外的人斷不得看見我對亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各起誓應許之地，因為他們沒有專心跟從我。
Surely none of the men that came up out of Egypt, from twenty years old and upward, shall see the land which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob; because they have not wholly followed me:

32:12    惟有基尼洗族耶孚尼的兒子迦勒和嫩的兒子約書亞可以看見，因為他們專心跟從我。
Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite, and Joshua the son of Nun: for they have wholly followed the LORD.

32:13    耶和華的怒氣向以色列人發作，使他們在曠野飄流四十年，等到在耶和華眼前行惡的那一代人都消滅了。
And the LORD's anger was kindled against Israel, and he made them wander in the wilderness forty years, until all the generation, that had done evil in the sight of the LORD, was consumed.

32:14    誰知，你們起來接續先祖，增添罪人的數目，使耶和華向以色列大發烈怒。
And, behold, ye are risen up in your fathers' stead, an increase of sinful men, to augment yet the fierce anger of the LORD toward Israel.

32:15    你們若退後不跟從他，他還要把以色列人撇在曠野，便是你們使這眾民滅亡。
For if ye turn away from after him, he will yet again leave them in the wilderness; and ye shall destroy all this people.

32:16    兩支派的人挨近摩西，說，我們要在這裡為牲畜壘圈，為婦人孩子造城。
And they came near unto him, and said, We will build sheepfolds here for our cattle, and cities for our little ones:

32:17    我們自己要帶兵器行在以色列人的前頭，好把他們領到他們的地方。但我們的婦人孩子，因這地居民的緣故，要住在堅固的城內。
But we ourselves will go ready armed before the children of Israel, until we have brought them unto their place: and our little ones shall dwell in the fenced cities because of the inhabitants of the land.

32:18    我們不回家，直等到以色列人各承受自己的產業。
We will not return unto our houses, until the children of Israel have inherited every man his inheritance.

32:19    我們不和他們在約旦河那邊一帶之地同受產業，因為我們的產業是坐落在約旦河東邊這裡。
For we will not inherit with them on yonder side Jordan, or forward; because our inheritance is fallen to us on this side Jordan eastward.

32:20    摩西對他們說，你們若這樣行，在耶和華面前帶著兵器出去打仗，
And Moses said unto them, If ye will do this thing, if ye will go armed before the LORD to war,

32:21    所有帶兵器的人都要在耶和華面前過約旦河，等他趕出他的仇敵，
And will go all of you armed over Jordan before the LORD, until he hath driven out his enemies from before him,

32:22    那地被耶和華制伏了，然後你們可以回來，向耶和華和以色列才為無罪，這地也必在耶和華面前歸你們為業。
And the land be subdued before the LORD: then afterward ye shall return, and be guiltless before the LORD, and before Israel; and this land shall be your possession before the LORD.

32:23    倘若你們不這樣行，就得罪耶和華，要知道你們的罪必追上你們。
But if ye will not do so, behold, ye have sinned against the LORD: and be sure your sin will find you out.

32:24    如今你們口中所出的，只管去行，為你們的婦人孩子造城，為你們的羊群壘圈。
Build you cities for your little ones, and folds for your sheep; and do that which hath proceeded out of your mouth.

32:25    迦得子孫和流便子孫對摩西說，僕人要照我主所吩咐的去行。
And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben spake unto Moses, saying, Thy servants will do as my lord commandeth.

32:26    我們的妻子，孩子，羊群，和所有的牲畜都要留在基列的各城。
Our little ones, our wives, our flocks, and all our cattle, shall be there in the cities of Gilead:

32:27    但你的僕人，凡帶兵器的，都要照我主所說的話，在耶和華面前過去打仗。
But thy servants will pass over, every man armed for war, before the LORD to battle, as my lord saith.

32:28    於是，摩西為他們囑咐祭司以利亞撒和嫩的兒子約書亞，並以色列眾支派的族長，
So concerning them Moses commanded Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the chief fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel:

32:29    說，迦得子孫和流便子孫，凡帶兵器在耶和華面前去打仗的，若與你們一同過約旦河，那地被你們制伏了，你們就要把基列地給他們為業。
And Moses said unto them, If the children of Gad and the children of Reuben will pass with you over Jordan, every man armed to battle, before the LORD, and the land shall be subdued before you; then ye shall give them the land of Gilead for a possession:

32:30    倘若他們不帶兵器和你們一同過去，就要在迦南地你們中間得產業。
But if they will not pass over with you armed, they shall have possessions among you in the land of Canaan.

32:31    迦得子孫和流便子孫回答說，耶和華怎樣吩咐僕人，僕人就怎樣行。
And the children of Gad and the children of Reuben answered, saying, As the LORD hath said unto thy servants, so will we do.

32:32    我們要帶兵器，在耶和華面前過去，進入迦南地，只是約旦河這邊，我們所得為業之地仍歸我們。
We will pass over armed before the LORD into the land of Canaan, that the possession of our inheritance on this side Jordan may be ours.

32:33    摩西將亞摩利王西巨集的國和巴珊王噩的國，連那地和周圍的城邑，都給了迦得子孫和流便子孫，並約瑟的兒子瑪拿西半個支派。
And Moses gave unto them, even to the children of Gad, and to the children of Reuben, and unto half the tribe of Manasseh the son of Joseph, the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, and the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, the land, with the cities thereof in the coasts, even the cities of the country round about.

32:34    迦得子孫建造底本，亞他錄，亞羅珥，
And the children of Gad built Dibon, and Ataroth, and Aroer,

32:35    亞他錄朔反，雅謝，約比哈，
And Atroth, Shophan, and Jaazer, and Jogbehah,

32:36    伯寧拉，伯哈蘭，都是堅固城。他們又壘羊圈。
And Bethnimrah, and Bethharan, fenced cities: and folds for sheep.

32:37    流便子孫建造希實本，以利亞利，基列亭，
And the children of Reuben built Heshbon, and Elealeh, and Kirjathaim,

32:38    尼波，巴力免，西比瑪（尼波，巴力免，名字是改了的），又給他們所建造的城另起別名。
And Nebo, and Baalmeon, (their names being changed,) and Shibmah: and gave other names unto the cities which they builded.

32:39    瑪拿西的兒子瑪吉，他的子孫往基列去，佔了那地，趕出那裡的亞摩利人。
And the children of Machir the son of Manasseh went to Gilead, and took it, and dispossessed the Amorite which was in it.

32:40    摩西將基列賜給瑪拿西的兒子瑪吉，他子孫就住在那裡。
And Moses gave Gilead unto Machir the son of Manasseh; and he dwelt therein.

32:41    瑪拿西的子孫睚珥去佔了基列的村莊，就稱這些村莊為哈倭特睚珥。
And Jair the son of Manasseh went and took the small towns thereof, and called them Havothjair.

32:42    挪巴去佔了基納和基納的鄉村，就按自己的名稱基納為挪巴。
And Nobah went and took Kenath, and the villages thereof, and called it Nobah, after his own name.





舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


33:1    以色列人按著軍隊，在摩西，亞倫的手下出埃及地所行的路程（或作站口下同）記在下面。
These are the journeys of the children of Israel, which went forth out of the land of Egypt with their armies under the hand of Moses and Aaron.

33:2    摩西遵著耶和華的吩咐記載他們所行的路程，其路程乃是這樣，
And Moses wrote their goings out according to their journeys by the commandment of the LORD: and these are their journeys according to their goings out.

33:3    正月十五日，就是逾越節的次日，以色列人從蘭塞起行，在一切埃及人眼前昂然無懼地出去。
And they departed from Rameses in the first month, on the fifteenth day of the first month; on the morrow after the passover the children of Israel went out with an high hand in the sight of all the Egyptians.

33:4    那時，埃及人正葬埋他們的長子，就是耶和華在他們中間所擊殺的。耶和華也敗壞他們的神。
For the Egyptians buried all their firstborn, which the LORD had smitten among them: upon their gods also the LORD executed judgments.

33:5    以色列人從蘭塞起行，安營在疏割。
And the children of Israel removed from Rameses, and pitched in Succoth.

33:6    從疏割起行，安營在曠野邊的以倘。
And they departed from Succoth, and pitched in Etham, which is in the edge of the wilderness.

33:7    從以倘起行，轉到比雜湊錄，是在巴力洗分對面，就在密奪安營。
And they removed from Etham, and turned again unto Pihahiroth, which is before Baalzephon: and they pitched before Migdol.

33:8    從比雜湊錄對面起行，經過海中到了書珥曠野，又在伊坦的曠野走了三天的路程，就安營在瑪拉。
And they departed from before Pihahiroth, and passed through the midst of the sea into the wilderness, and went three days' journey in the wilderness of Etham, and pitched in Marah.

33:9    從瑪拉起行，來到以琳（以琳有十二股水泉，七十棵棕樹），就在那裡安營。
And they removed from Marah, and came unto Elim: and in Elim were twelve fountains of water, and threescore and ten palm trees; and they pitched there.

33:10    從以琳起行，安營在紅海邊。
And they removed from Elim, and encamped by the Red sea.

33:11    從紅海邊起行，安營在汛的曠野。
And they removed from the Red sea, and encamped in the wilderness of Sin.

33:12    從汛的曠野起行，安營在脫加。
And they took their journey out of the wilderness of Sin, and encamped in Dophkah.

33:13    從脫加起行，安營在亞錄。
And they departed from Dophkah, and encamped in Alush.

33:14    從亞錄起行，安營在利非訂。在那裡，百姓沒有水喝。
And they removed from Alush, and encamped at Rephidim, where was no water for the people to drink.

33:15    從利非訂起行，安營在西奈的曠野。
And they departed from Rephidim, and pitched in the wilderness of Sinai.

33:16    從西奈的曠野起行，安營在基博羅哈他瓦。
And they removed from the desert of Sinai, and pitched at Kibrothhattaavah.

33:17    從基博羅哈他瓦起行，安營在哈洗錄。
And they departed from Kibrothhattaavah, and encamped at Hazeroth.

33:18    從哈洗錄起行，安營在利提瑪。
And they departed from Hazeroth, and pitched in Rithmah.

33:19    從利提瑪起行，安營在臨門帕烈。
And they departed from Rithmah, and pitched at Rimmonparez.

33:20    從臨門帕烈起行，安營在立拿。
And they departed from Rimmonparez, and pitched in Libnah.

33:21    從立拿起行，安營在勒撒。
And they removed from Libnah, and pitched at Rissah.

33:22    從勒撒起行，安營在基希拉他。
And they journeyed from Rissah, and pitched in Kehelathah.

33:23    從基希拉他起行，安營在沙斐山。
And they went from Kehelathah, and pitched in mount Shapher.

33:24    從沙斐山起行，安營在哈拉大。
And they removed from mount Shapher, and encamped in Haradah.

33:25    從哈拉大起行，安營在瑪吉希錄。
And they removed from Haradah, and pitched in Makheloth.

33:26    從瑪吉希錄起行，安營在他哈。
And they removed from Makheloth, and encamped at Tahath.

33:27    從他哈起行，安營在他拉。
And they departed from Tahath, and pitched at Tarah.

33:28    從他拉起行，安營在密加。
And they removed from Tarah, and pitched in Mithcah.

33:29    從密加起行，安營在哈摩拿。
And they went from Mithcah, and pitched in Hashmonah.

33:30    從哈摩拿起行，安營在摩西錄。
And they departed from Hashmonah, and encamped at Moseroth.

33:31    從摩西錄起行，安營在比尼亞幹。
And they departed from Moseroth, and pitched in Benejaakan.

33:32    從比尼亞幹起行，安營在曷哈及甲。
And they removed from Benejaakan, and encamped at Horhagidgad.

33:33    從曷哈及甲起行，安營在約巴他。
And they went from Horhagidgad, and pitched in Jotbathah.

33:34    從約巴他起行，安營在阿博拿。
And they removed from Jotbathah, and encamped at Ebronah.

33:35    從阿博拿起行，安營在以旬迦別。
And they departed from Ebronah, and encamped at Eziongaber.

33:36    從以旬迦別起行，安營在尋的曠野，就是加低斯。
And they removed from Eziongaber, and pitched in the wilderness of Zin, which is Kadesh.

33:37    從加低斯起行，安營在何珥山，以東地的邊界。
And they removed from Kadesh, and pitched in mount Hor, in the edge of the land of Edom.

33:38    以色列人出了埃及地後四十年，五月初一日，祭司亞倫遵著耶和華的吩咐上何珥山，就死在那裡。
And Aaron the priest went up into mount Hor at the commandment of the LORD, and died there, in the fortieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the first day of the fifth month.

33:39    亞倫死在何珥山的時候年一百二十三歲。
And Aaron was an hundred and twenty and three years old when he died in mount Hor.

33:40    住在迦南南地的迦南人亞拉得王聽說以色列人來了。
And king Arad the Canaanite, which dwelt in the south in the land of Canaan, heard of the coming of the children of Israel.

33:41    以色列人從何珥山起行，安營在撒摩拿。
And they departed from mount Hor, and pitched in Zalmonah.

33:42    從撒摩拿起行，安營在普嫩。
And they departed from Zalmonah, and pitched in Punon.

33:43    從普嫩起行，安營在阿伯。
And they departed from Punon, and pitched in Oboth.

33:44    從阿伯起行，安營在以耶亞巴琳，摩押的邊界。
And they departed from Oboth, and pitched in Ijeabarim, in the border of Moab.

33:45    從以耶亞巴琳起行，安營在底本迦得。
And they departed from Iim, and pitched in Dibongad.

33:46    從底本迦得起行，安營在亞門低比拉太音。
And they removed from Dibongad, and encamped in Almondiblathaim.

33:47    從亞門低比拉太音起行，安營在尼波對面的亞巴琳山裡。
And they removed from Almondiblathaim, and pitched in the mountains of Abarim, before Nebo.

33:48    從亞巴琳山起行，安營在摩押平原約旦河邊，耶利哥對面。
And they departed from the mountains of Abarim, and pitched in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.

33:49    他們在摩押平原沿約旦河邊安營，從伯耶施末直到亞伯什亭。
And they pitched by Jordan, from Bethjesimoth even unto Abelshittim in the plains of Moab.

33:50    耶和華在摩押平原約旦河邊，耶利哥對面曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,

33:51    你吩咐以色列人說，你們過約旦河進迦南地的時候，
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye are passed over Jordan into the land of Canaan;

33:52    就要從你們面前趕出那裡所有的居民，毀滅他們一切鏨成的石像和他們一切鑄成的偶像，又拆毀他們一切的邱壇。
Then ye shall drive out all the inhabitants of the land from before you, and destroy all their pictures, and destroy all their molten images, and quite pluck down all their high places:

33:53    你們要奪那地，住在其中，因我把那地賜給你們為業。
And ye shall dispossess the inhabitants of the land, and dwell therein: for I have given you the land to possess it.

33:54    你們要按家室拈鬮，承受那地。人多的，要把產業多分給他們。人少的，要把產業少分給他們。拈出何地給何人，就要歸何人。你們要按宗族的支派承受。
And ye shall divide the land by lot for an inheritance among your families: and to the more ye shall give the more inheritance, and to the fewer ye shall give the less inheritance: every man's inheritance shall be in the place where his lot falleth; according to the tribes of your fathers ye shall inherit.

33:55    倘若你們不趕出那地的居民，所容留的居民就必作你們眼中的刺，肋下的荊棘，也必在你們所住的地上擾害你們。
But if ye will not drive out the inhabitants of the land from before you; then it shall come to pass, that those which ye let remain of them shall be pricks in your eyes, and thorns in your sides, and shall vex you in the land wherein ye dwell.

33:56    而且我素常有意怎樣待他們，也必照樣待你們。
Moreover it shall come to pass, that I shall do unto you, as I thought to do unto them.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


34:1    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

34:2    你吩咐以色列人說，你們到了迦南地，就是歸你們為業的迦南四境之地，
Command the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye come into the land of Canaan; (this is the land that shall fall unto you for an inheritance, even the land of Canaan with the coasts thereof:)

34:3    南角要從尋的曠野，貼著以東的邊界。南界要從鹽海東頭起，
Then your south quarter shall be from the wilderness of Zin along by the coast of Edom, and your south border shall be the outmost coast of the salt sea eastward:

34:4    繞到亞克拉浜坡的南邊，接連到尋，直通到加低斯巴尼亞的南邊，又通到哈薩亞達，接連到押們，
And your border shall turn from the south to the ascent of Akrabbim, and pass on to Zin: and the going forth thereof shall be from the south to Kadeshbarnea, and shall go on to Hazaraddar, and pass on to Azmon:

34:5    從押們轉到埃及小河，直通到海為止。
And the border shall fetch a compass from Azmon unto the river of Egypt, and the goings out of it shall be at the sea.

34:6    西邊要以大海為界。這就是你們的西界。
And as for the western border, ye shall even have the great sea for a border: this shall be your west border.

34:7    北界要從大海起，劃到何珥山，
And this shall be your north border: from the great sea ye shall point out for you mount Hor:

34:8    從何珥山劃到哈馬口，通到西達達，
From mount Hor ye shall point out your border unto the entrance of Hamath; and the goings forth of the border shall be to Zedad:

34:9    又通到西斐侖，直到哈薩以難。這要作你們的北界。
And the border shall go on to Ziphron, and the goings out of it shall be at Hazarenan: this shall be your north border.

34:10    你們要從哈薩以難劃到示番為東界。
And ye shall point out your east border from Hazarenan to Shepham:

34:11    這界要從示番下到亞延東邊的利比拉，又要達到基尼烈湖的東邊。
And the coast shall go down from Shepham to Riblah, on the east side of Ain; and the border shall descend, and shall reach unto the side of the sea of Chinnereth eastward:

34:12    這界要下到約旦河，通到鹽海為止。這四圍的邊界以內，要作你們的地。
And the border shall go down to Jordan, and the goings out of it shall be at the salt sea: this shall be your land with the coasts thereof round about.

34:13    摩西吩咐以色列人說，這地就是耶和華吩咐拈鬮給九個半支派承受為業的。
And Moses commanded the children of Israel, saying, This is the land which ye shall inherit by lot, which the LORD commanded to give unto the nine tribes, and to the half tribe:

34:14    因為流便支派和迦得支派按著宗族受了產業，瑪拿西半個支派也受了產業。
For the tribe of the children of Reuben according to the house of their fathers, and the tribe of the children of Gad according to the house of their fathers, have received their inheritance; and half the tribe of Manasseh have received their inheritance:

34:15    這兩個半支派已經在耶利哥對面，約旦河東，向日出之地受了產業。
The two tribes and the half tribe have received their inheritance on this side Jordan near Jericho eastward, toward the sunrising.

34:16    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

34:17    要給你們分地為業之人的名字是祭司以利亞撒和嫩的兒子約書亞。
These are the names of the men which shall divide the land unto you: Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun.

34:18    又要從每支派中選一個首領幫助他們。
And ye shall take one prince of every tribe, to divide the land by inheritance.

34:19    這些人的名字，猶大支派有耶孚尼的兒子迦勒。
And the names of the men are these: Of the tribe of Judah, Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

34:20    西緬支派有亞米忽的兒子示母利。
And of the tribe of the children of Simeon, Shemuel the son of Ammihud.

34:21    便雅憫支派有基斯倫的兒子以利達。
Of the tribe of Benjamin, Elidad the son of Chislon.

34:22    但支派有一個首領，約利的兒子布基。
And the prince of the tribe of the children of Dan, Bukki the son of Jogli.

34:23    約瑟的子孫瑪拿西支派有一個首領，以弗的兒子漢聶。
The prince of the children of Joseph, for the tribe of the children of Manasseh, Hanniel the son of Ephod.

34:24    以法蓮支派有一個首領，拾弗但的兒子基母利。
And the prince of the tribe of the children of Ephraim, Kemuel the son of Shiphtan.

34:25    西布倫支派有一個首領，帕納的兒子以利撒番。
And the prince of the tribe of the children of Zebulun, Elizaphan the son of Parnach.

34:26    以薩迦支派有一個首領，阿散的兒子帕鐵。
And the prince of the tribe of the children of Issachar, Paltiel the son of Azzan.

34:27    亞設支派有一個首領，示羅米的兒子亞希忽。
And the prince of the tribe of the children of Asher, Ahihud the son of Shelomi.

34:28    拿弗他利支派有一個首領，亞米忽的兒子比大黑。
And the prince of the tribe of the children of Naphtali, Pedahel the son of Ammihud.

34:29    這些人就是耶和華所吩咐，在迦南地把產業分給以色列人的。
These are they whom the LORD commanded to divide the inheritance unto the children of Israel in the land of Canaan.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


35:1    耶和華在摩押平原約旦河邊，耶利哥對面曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho, saying,

35:2    你吩咐以色列人，要從所得為業的地中把些城給利未人居住，也要把這城四圍的郊野給利未人。
Command the children of Israel, that they give unto the Levites of the inheritance of their possession cities to dwell in; and ye shall give also unto the Levites suburbs for the cities round about them.

35:3    這城邑要歸他們居住，城邑的郊野可以牧養他們的牛羊和各樣的牲畜，又可以安置他們的財物。
And the cities shall they have to dwell in; and the suburbs of them shall be for their cattle, and for their goods, and for all their beasts.

35:4    你們給利未人的郊野，要從城根起，四圍往外量一千肘。
And the suburbs of the cities, which ye shall give unto the Levites, shall reach from the wall of the city and outward a thousand cubits round about.

35:5    另外東量二千肘，南量二千肘，西量二千肘，北量二千肘，為邊界，城在當中。這要歸他們作城邑的郊野。
And ye shall measure from without the city on the east side two thousand cubits, and on the south side two thousand cubits, and on the west side two thousand cubits, and on the north side two thousand cubits; and the city shall be in the midst: this shall be to them the suburbs of the cities.

35:6    你們給利未人的城邑，其中當有六座逃城，使誤殺人的可以逃到那裡。此外還要給他們四十二座城。
And among the cities which ye shall give unto the Levites there shall be six cities for refuge, which ye shall appoint for the manslayer, that he may flee thither: and to them ye shall add forty and two cities.

35:7    你們要給利未人的城，共有四十八座，連城帶郊野都要給他們。
So all the cities which ye shall give to the Levites shall be forty and eight cities: them shall ye give with their suburbs.

35:8    以色列人所得的地業從中要把些城邑給利未人。人多的就多給，人少的就少給。各支派要按所承受為業之地把城邑給利未人。
And the cities which ye shall give shall be of the possession of the children of Israel: from them that have many ye shall give many; but from them that have few ye shall give few: every one shall give of his cities unto the Levites according to his inheritance which he inheriteth.

35:9    耶和華曉諭摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses, saying,

35:10    你吩咐以色列人說，你們過約旦河，進了迦南地，
Speak unto the children of Israel, and say unto them, When ye be come over Jordan into the land of Canaan;

35:11    就要分出幾座城，為你們作逃城，使誤殺人的可以逃到那裡。
Then ye shall appoint you cities to be cities of refuge for you; that the slayer may flee thither, which killeth any person at unawares.

35:12    這些城可以作逃避報仇人的城，使誤殺人的不至於死，等他站在會眾面前聽審判。
And they shall be unto you cities for refuge from the avenger; that the manslayer die not, until he stand before the congregation in judgment.

35:13    你們所分出來的城，要作六座逃城。
And of these cities which ye shall give six cities shall ye have for refuge.

35:14    在約旦河東要分出三座城，在迦南地也要分出三座城，都作逃城。
Ye shall give three cities on this side Jordan, and three cities shall ye give in the land of Canaan, which shall be cities of refuge.

35:15    這六座城要給以色列人和他們中間的外人，並寄居的，作為逃城，使誤殺人的都可以逃到那裡。
These six cities shall be a refuge, both for the children of Israel, and for the stranger, and for the sojourner among them: that every one that killeth any person unawares may flee thither.

35:16    倘若人用鐵器打人，以致打死，他就是故殺人的。故殺人的必被治死。
And if he smite him with an instrument of iron, so that he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.

35:17    若用可以打死人的石頭打死了人，他就是故殺人的。故殺人的必被治死。
And if he smite him with throwing a stone, wherewith he may die, and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.

35:18    若用可以打死人的木器打死了人，他就是故殺人的。故殺人的必被治死。
Or if he smite him with an hand weapon of wood, wherewith he may die, and he die, he is a murderer: the murderer shall surely be put to death.

35:19    報血仇的必親自殺那故殺人的，一遇見就殺他。
The revenger of blood himself shall slay the murderer: when he meeteth him, he shall slay him.

35:20    人若因怨恨把人推倒，或是埋伏往人身上扔物，以致於死，
But if he thrust him of hatred, or hurl at him by laying of wait, that he die;

35:21    或是因仇恨用手打人，以致於死，那打人的必被治死。他是故殺人的。報血仇的一遇見就殺他。
Or in enmity smite him with his hand, that he die: he that smote him shall surely be put to death; for he is a murderer: the revenger of blood shall slay the murderer, when he meeteth him.

35:22    倘若人沒有仇恨，忽然將人推倒，或是沒有埋伏把物扔在人身上，
But if he thrust him suddenly without enmity, or have cast upon him any thing without laying of wait,

35:23    或是沒有看見的時候用可以打死人的石頭扔在人身上，以致於死，本來與他無仇，也無意害他。
Or with any stone, wherewith a man may die, seeing him not, and cast it upon him, that he die, and was not his enemy, neither sought his harm:

35:24    會眾就要照典章，在打死人的和報血仇的中間審判。
Then the congregation shall judge between the slayer and the revenger of blood according to these judgments:

35:25    會眾要救這誤殺人的脫離報血仇人的手，也要使他歸入逃城。他要住在其中，直等到受聖膏的大祭司死了。
And the congregation shall deliver the slayer out of the hand of the revenger of blood, and the congregation shall restore him to the city of his refuge, whither he was fled: and he shall abide in it unto the death of the high priest, which was anointed with the holy oil.

35:26    但誤殺人的，無論什麼時候，若出了逃城的境外，
But if the slayer shall at any time come without the border of the city of his refuge, whither he was fled;

35:27    報血仇的在逃城境外遇見他，將他殺了，報血仇的就沒有流血之罪。
And the revenger of blood find him without the borders of the city of his refuge, and the revenger of blood kill the slayer; he shall not be guilty of blood:

35:28    因為誤殺人的該住在逃城裡，等到大祭司死了。大祭司死了以後，誤殺人的才可以回到他所得為業之地。
Because he should have remained in the city of his refuge until the death of the high priest: but after the death of the high priest the slayer shall return into the land of his possession.

35:29    這在你們一切的住處，要作你們世世代代的律例典章。
So these things shall be for a statute of judgment unto you throughout your generations in all your dwellings.

35:30    無論誰故殺人，要憑几個見證人的口把那故殺人的殺了，只是不可憑一個見證的口叫人死。
Whoso killeth any person, the murderer shall be put to death by the mouth of witnesses: but one witness shall not testify against any person to cause him to die.

35:31    故殺人，犯死罪的，你們不可收贖價代替他的命。他必被治死。
Moreover ye shall take no satisfaction for the life of a murderer, which is guilty of death: but he shall be surely put to death.

35:32    那逃到逃城的人，你們不可為他收贖價，使他在大祭司未死以先再來住在本地。
And ye shall take no satisfaction for him that is fled to the city of his refuge, that he should come again to dwell in the land, until the death of the priest.

35:33    這樣，你們就不汙穢所住之地，因為血是汙穢地的。若有在地上流人血的，非流那殺人者的血，那地就不得潔淨（潔淨原文作贖）。
So ye shall not pollute the land wherein ye are: for blood it defileth the land: and the land cannot be cleansed of the blood that is shed therein, but by the blood of him that shed it.

35:34    你們不可玷汙所住之地，就是我住在其中之地，因為我耶和華住在以色列人中間。
Defile not therefore the land which ye shall inhabit, wherein I dwell: for I the LORD dwell among the children of Israel.



舊約 -- 民數記(Numbers) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


36:1    約瑟的後裔，瑪拿西的孫子，瑪吉的兒子基列，他子孫中的諸族長來到摩西和作首領的以色獵人族長面前，
And the chief fathers of the families of the children of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, of the families of the sons of Joseph, came near, and spake before Moses, and before the princes, the chief fathers of the children of Israel:

36:2    說，耶和華曾吩咐我主拈鬮分地給以色列人為業，我主也受了耶和華的吩咐將我們兄弟西羅非哈的產業分給他的眾女兒。
And they said, The LORD commanded my lord to give the land for an inheritance by lot to the children of Israel: and my lord was commanded by the LORD to give the inheritance of Zelophehad our brother unto his daughters.

36:3    她們若嫁以色列別支派的人，就必將我們祖宗所遺留的產業加在她們丈夫支派的產業中。這樣，我們拈鬮所得的產業就要減少了。
And if they be married to any of the sons of the other tribes of the children of Israel, then shall their inheritance be taken from the inheritance of our fathers, and shall be put to the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they are received: so shall it be taken from the lot of our inheritance.

36:4    到了以色列人的禧年，這女兒的產業就必加在她們丈夫支派的產業上。這樣，我們祖宗支派的產業就減少了。
And when the jubile of the children of Israel shall be, then shall their inheritance be put unto the inheritance of the tribe whereunto they are received: so shall their inheritance be taken away from the inheritance of the tribe of our fathers.

36:5    摩西照耶和華的話吩咐以色列人說，約瑟支派的人說得有理。
And Moses commanded the children of Israel according to the word of the LORD, saying, The tribe of the sons of Joseph hath said well.

36:6    論到西羅非哈的眾女兒，耶和華這樣吩咐說，她們可以隨意嫁人，只是要嫁同宗支派的人。
This is the thing which the LORD doth command concerning the daughters of Zelophehad, saying, Let them marry to whom they think best; only to the family of the tribe of their father shall they marry.

36:7    這樣，以色列人的產業就不從這支派歸到那支派，因為以色列人要各守各祖宗支派的產業。
So shall not the inheritance of the children of Israel remove from tribe to tribe: for every one of the children of Israel shall keep himself to the inheritance of the tribe of his fathers.

36:8    凡在以色列支派中得了產業的女子必作同宗支派人的妻，好叫以色列人各自承受他祖宗的產業。
And every daughter, that possesseth an inheritance in any tribe of the children of Israel, shall be wife unto one of the family of the tribe of her father, that the children of Israel may enjoy every man the inheritance of his fathers.

36:9    這樣，他們的產業就不從這支派歸到那支派，因為以色列支派的人要各守各的產業。
Neither shall the inheritance remove from one tribe to another tribe; but every one of the tribes of the children of Israel shall keep himself to his own inheritance.

36:10    耶和華怎樣吩咐摩西，西羅非哈的眾女兒就怎樣行。
Even as the LORD commanded Moses, so did the daughters of Zelophehad:

36:11    西羅非哈的女兒瑪拉，得撒，曷拉，密迦，挪阿都嫁了他們伯叔的兒子。
For Mahlah, Tirzah, and Hoglah, and Milcah, and Noah, the daughters of Zelophehad, were married unto their father's brothers' sons:

36:12    她們嫁入約瑟兒子，瑪拿西子孫的族中。她們的產業仍留在同宗支派中。
And they were married into the families of the sons of Manasseh the son of Joseph, and their inheritance remained in the tribe of the family of their father.

36:13    這是耶和華在摩押平原約旦河邊，耶利哥對面藉著摩西所吩咐以色列人的命令典章。
These are the commandments and the judgments, which the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses unto the children of Israel in the plains of Moab by Jordan near Jericho.


