
舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


1:1    以下所記的，是摩西在約旦河東的曠野，疏弗對面的亞拉巴，就是巴蘭，陀弗，拉班，哈洗錄，底撒哈中間，向以色列眾人所說的話。
These be the words which Moses spake unto all Israel on this side Jordan in the wilderness, in the plain over against the Red sea, between Paran, and Tophel, and Laban, and Hazeroth, and Dizahab.

1:2    從何烈山經過西珥山，到加低斯巴尼亞，有十一天的路程。
(There are eleven days' journey from Horeb by the way of mount Seir unto Kadeshbarnea.)

1:3    出埃及第四十年，十一月初一日，摩西照耶和華藉著他所吩咐以色列人的話，都曉諭他們。
And it came to pass in the fortieth year, in the eleventh month, on the first day of the month, that Moses spake unto the children of Israel, according unto all that the LORD had given him in commandment unto them;

1:4    那時，他已經擊殺了住希實本的亞摩利王西巨集，和住以得來，亞斯他錄的巴珊王噩。
After he had slain Sihon the king of the Amorites, which dwelt in Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, which dwelt at Astaroth in Edrei:

1:5    摩西在約旦河東的摩押地講律法說，
On this side Jordan, in the land of Moab, began Moses to declare this law, saying,

1:6    耶和華我們的神在何烈山曉諭我們說，你們在這山上住的日子夠了。
The LORD our God spake unto us in Horeb, saying, Ye have dwelt long enough in this mount:

1:7    要起行轉到亞摩利人的山地和靠近這山地的各處，就是亞拉巴，山地，高原，南地，沿海一帶迦南人的地，並黎巴嫩山又到伯拉大河。
Turn you, and take your journey, and go to the mount of the Amorites, and unto all the places nigh thereunto, in the plain, in the hills, and in the vale, and in the south, and by the sea side, to the land of the Canaanites, and unto Lebanon, unto the great river, the river Euphrates.

1:8    如今我將這地擺在你們面前。你們要進去得這地，就是耶和華向你們列祖亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各起誓應許賜給他們和他們後裔為業之地。
Behold, I have set the land before you: go in and possess the land which the LORD sware unto your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give unto them and to their seed after them.

1:9    那時，我對你們說，管理你們的重任，我獨自擔當不起。
And I spake unto you at that time, saying, I am not able to bear you myself alone:

1:10    耶和華你們的神使你們多起來。看哪，你們今日像天上的星那樣多。
The LORD your God hath multiplied you, and, behold, ye are this day as the stars of heaven for multitude.

1:11    惟願耶和華你們列祖的神使你們比如今更多千倍，照他所應許你們的話賜福與你們。
(The LORD God of your fathers make you a thousand times so many more as ye are, and bless you, as he hath promised you!)

1:12    但你們的麻煩，和管理你們的重任，並你們的爭訟，我獨自一人怎能擔當得起呢，
How can I myself alone bear your cumbrance, and your burden, and your strife?

1:13    你們要按著各支派選舉有智慧，有見識，為眾人所認識的，我立他們為你們的首領。
Take you wise men, and understanding, and known among your tribes, and I will make them rulers over you.

1:14    你們回答我說，照你所說的行了為妙。
And ye answered me, and said, The thing which thou hast spoken is good for us to do.

1:15    我便將你們各支派的首領，有智慧，為眾人所認識的，照你們的支派，立他們為官長，千夫長，百夫長，五十夫長，十夫長，管理你們。
So I took the chief of your tribes, wise men, and known, and made them heads over you, captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, and captains over fifties, and captains over tens, and officers among your tribes.

1:16    當時，我囑咐你們的審判官說，你們聽訟，無論是弟兄彼此爭訟，是與同居的外人爭訟，都要按公義判斷。
And I charged your judges at that time, saying, Hear the causes between your brethren, and judge righteously between every man and his brother, and the stranger that is with him.

1:17    審判的時候，不可看人的外貌。聽訟不可分貴賤，不可懼怕人，因為審判是屬乎神的。若有難斷的案件，可以呈到我這裡，我就判斷。
Ye shall not respect persons in judgment; but ye shall hear the small as well as the great; ye shall not be afraid of the face of man; for the judgment is God's: and the cause that is too hard for you, bring it unto me, and I will hear it.

1:18    那時，我將你們所當行的事都吩咐你們了。
And I commanded you at that time all the things which ye should do.

1:19    我們照著耶和華我們神所吩咐的從何烈山起行，經過你們所看見那大而可怕的曠野，往亞摩利人的山地去，到了加低斯巴尼亞。
And when we departed from Horeb, we went through all that great and terrible wilderness, which ye saw by the way of the mountain of the Amorites, as the LORD our God commanded us; and we came to Kadeshbarnea.

1:20    我對你們說，你們已經到了耶和華我們神所賜給我們的亞摩利人之山地。
And I said unto you, Ye are come unto the mountain of the Amorites, which the LORD our God doth give unto us.

1:21    看哪，耶和華你的神已將那地擺在你面前，你要照耶和華你列祖的神所說的上去得那地為業。不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。
Behold, the LORD thy God hath set the land before thee: go up and possess it, as the LORD God of thy fathers hath said unto thee; fear not, neither be discouraged.

1:22    你們都就近我來說，我們要先打發人去，為我們窺探那地，將我們上去該走何道，必進何城，都回報我們。
And ye came near unto me every one of you, and said, We will send men before us, and they shall search us out the land, and bring us word again by what way we must go up, and into what cities we shall come.

1:23    這話我以為美，就從你們中間選了十二個人，每支派一人。
And the saying pleased me well: and I took twelve men of you, one of a tribe:

1:24    於是他們起身上山地去，到以實各谷，窺探那地。
And they turned and went up into the mountain, and came unto the valley of Eshcol, and searched it out.

1:25    他們手裡拿著那地的果子下來，到我們那裡，回報說，耶和華我們的神所賜給我們的是美地。
And they took of the fruit of the land in their hands, and brought it down unto us, and brought us word again, and said, It is a good land which the LORD our God doth give us.

1:26    你們卻不肯上去，竟違背了耶和華你們神的命令，
Notwithstanding ye would not go up, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God:

1:27    在帳棚內發怨言說，耶和華因為恨我們，所以將我們從埃及地領出來，要交在亞摩利人手中，除滅我們。
And ye murmured in your tents, and said, Because the LORD hated us, he hath brought us forth out of the land of Egypt, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us.

1:28    我們上哪裡去呢，我們的弟兄使我們的心消化，說那地的民比我們又大又高，城邑又廣大又堅固，高得頂天，並且我們在那裡看見亞衲族的人。
Whither shall we go up? our brethren have discouraged our heart, saying, The people is greater and taller than we; the cities are great and walled up to heaven; and moreover we have seen the sons of the Anakims there.

1:29    我就對你們說，不要驚恐，也不要怕他們。
Then I said unto you, Dread not, neither be afraid of them.

1:30    在你們前面行的耶和華你們的神必為你們爭戰，正如他在埃及和曠野，在你們眼前所行的一樣。
The LORD your God which goeth before you, he shall fight for you, according to all that he did for you in Egypt before your eyes;

1:31    你們在曠野所行的路上，也曾見耶和華你們的神撫養你們，如同人撫養兒子一般，直等你們來到這地方。
And in the wilderness, where thou hast seen how that the LORD thy God bare thee, as a man doth bear his son, in all the way that ye went, until ye came into this place.

1:32    你們在這事上卻不信耶和華你們的神。
Yet in this thing ye did not believe the LORD your God,

1:33    他在路上，在你們前面行，為你們找安營的地方。夜間在火柱裡，日間在雲柱裡，指示你們所當行的路。
Who went in the way before you, to search you out a place to pitch your tents in, in fire by night, to shew you by what way ye should go, and in a cloud by day.

1:34    和華聽見你們這話，就發怒，起誓說，
And the LORD heard the voice of your words, and was wroth, and sware, saying,

1:35    這惡世代的人，連一個也不得見我起誓應許賜給你們列祖的美地。
Surely there shall not one of these men of this evil generation see that good land, which I sware to give unto your fathers,

1:36    惟有耶孚尼的兒子迦勒必得看見，並且我要將他所踏過的地賜給他和他的子孫，因為他專心跟從我。
Save Caleb the son of Jephunneh; he shall see it, and to him will I give the land that he hath trodden upon, and to his children, because he hath wholly followed the LORD.

1:37    耶和華為你們的緣故也向我發怒，說，你必不得進入那地。
Also the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, saying, Thou also shalt not go in thither.

1:38    伺候你，嫩的兒子約書亞，他必得進入那地。你要勉勵他，因為他要使以色列人承受那地為業。
But Joshua the son of Nun, which standeth before thee, he shall go in thither: encourage him: for he shall cause Israel to inherit it.

1:39    並且你們的婦人孩子，就是你們所說，必被擄掠的，和今日不知善惡的兒女，必進入那地。我要將那地賜給他們，他們必得為業。
Moreover your little ones, which ye said should be a prey, and your children, which in that day had no knowledge between good and evil, they shall go in thither, and unto them will I give it, and they shall possess it.

1:40    至於你們，要轉回，從紅海的路往曠野去。
But as for you, turn you, and take your journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea.

1:41    那時，你們回答我說，我們得罪了耶和華，情願照耶和華我們神一切所吩咐的上去爭戰。於是你們各人帶著兵器，爭先上山地去了。
Then ye answered and said unto me, We have sinned against the LORD, we will go up and fight, according to all that the LORD our God commanded us. And when ye had girded on every man his weapons of war, ye were ready to go up into the hill.

1:42    耶和華吩咐我說，你對他們說，不要上去，也不要爭戰。因我不在你們中間，恐怕你們被仇敵殺敗了。
And the LORD said unto me, Say unto them, Go not up, neither fight; for I am not among you; lest ye be smitten before your enemies.

1:43    我就告訴了你們，你們卻不聽從，竟違背耶和華的命令，擅自上山地去了。
So I spake unto you; and ye would not hear, but rebelled against the commandment of the LORD, and went presumptuously up into the hill.

1:44    住那山地的亞摩利人就出來攻擊你們，追趕你們，如蜂擁一般，在西珥殺退你們，直到何珥瑪。
And the Amorites, which dwelt in that mountain, came out against you, and chased you, as bees do, and destroyed you in Seir, even unto Hormah.

1:45    你們便回來，在耶和華面前哭號。耶和華卻不聽你們的聲音，也不向你們側耳。
And ye returned and wept before the LORD; but the LORD would not hearken to your voice, nor give ear unto you.

1:46    於是你們在加低斯住了許多日子。
So ye abode in Kadesh many days, according unto the days that ye abode there.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


2:1    此後，我們轉回，從紅海的路往曠野去，是照耶和華所吩咐我的。我們在西珥山繞行了許多日子。
Then we turned, and took our journey into the wilderness by the way of the Red sea, as the LORD spake unto me: and we compassed mount Seir many days.

2:2    耶和華對我說，
And the LORD spake unto me, saying,

2:3    你們繞行這山的日子夠了，要轉向北去。
Ye have compassed this mountain long enough: turn you northward.

2:4    你吩咐百姓說，你們弟兄以掃的子孫住在西珥，你們要經過他們的境界。他們必懼怕你們，所以你們要分外謹慎。
And command thou the people, saying, Ye are to pass through the coast of your brethren the children of Esau, which dwell in Seir; and they shall be afraid of you: take ye good heed unto yourselves therefore:

2:5    不可與他們爭戰。他們的地，連腳掌可踏之處，我都不給你們，因我已將西珥山賜給以掃為業。
Meddle not with them; for I will not give you of their land, no, not so much as a foot breadth; because I have given mount Seir unto Esau for a possession.

2:6    你們要用錢向他們買糧吃，也要用錢向他們買水喝。
Ye shall buy meat of them for money, that ye may eat; and ye shall also buy water of them for money, that ye may drink.

2:7    因為耶和華你的神在你手裡所辦的一切事上已賜福與你。你走這大曠野，他都知道了。這四十年，耶和華你的神常與你同在，故此你一無所缺。
For the LORD thy God hath blessed thee in all the works of thy hand: he knoweth thy walking through this great wilderness: these forty years the LORD thy God hath been with thee; thou hast lacked nothing.

2:8    於是，我們離了我們弟兄以掃子孫所住的西珥，從亞拉巴的路，經過以拉他，以旬迦別，轉向摩押曠野的路去。
And when we passed by from our brethren the children of Esau, which dwelt in Seir, through the way of the plain from Elath, and from Eziongaber, we turned and passed by the way of the wilderness of Moab.

2:9    耶和華吩咐我說，不可擾害摩押人，也不可與他們爭戰。他們的地，我不賜給你為業，因我已將亞珥賜給羅得的子孫為業。
And the LORD said unto me, Distress not the Moabites, neither contend with them in battle: for I will not give thee of their land for a possession; because I have given Ar unto the children of Lot for a possession.

2:10    （先前，有以米人住在那裡，民數眾多，身體高大，像亞衲人一樣。
The Emims dwelt therein in times past, a people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakims;

2:11    這以米人像亞衲人。也算為利乏音人。摩押人稱他們為以米人。
Which also were accounted giants, as the Anakims; but the Moabites call them Emims.

2:12    先前，何利人也住在西珥，但以掃的子孫將他們除滅，得了他們的地，接著居住，就如以色列在耶和華賜給他為業之地所行的一樣。）
The Horims also dwelt in Seir beforetime; but the children of Esau succeeded them, when they had destroyed them from before them, and dwelt in their stead; as Israel did unto the land of his possession, which the LORD gave unto them.

2:13    現在，起來過撒烈溪。於是我們過了撒烈溪。
Now rise up, said I, and get you over the brook Zered. And we went over the brook Zered.

2:14    自從離開加低斯巴尼亞，到過了撒烈溪的時候，共有三十八年，等那世代的兵丁都從營中滅盡，正如耶和華向他們所起的誓。
And the space in which we came from Kadeshbarnea, until we were come over the brook Zered, was thirty and eight years; until all the generation of the men of war were wasted out from among the host, as the LORD sware unto them.

2:15    耶和華的手也攻擊他們，將他們從營中除滅，直到滅盡。
For indeed the hand of the LORD was against them, to destroy them from among the host, until they were consumed.

2:16    兵丁從民中都滅盡死亡以後，
So it came to pass, when all the men of war were consumed and dead from among the people,

2:17    耶和華吩咐我說，
That the LORD spake unto me, saying,

2:18    你今天要從摩押的境界亞珥經過，
Thou art to pass over through Ar, the coast of Moab, this day:

2:19    走近亞捫人之地，不可擾害他們，也不可與他們爭戰。亞捫人的地，我不賜給你們為業，因我已將那地賜給羅得的子孫為業。
And when thou comest nigh over against the children of Ammon, distress them not, nor meddle with them: for I will not give thee of the land of the children of Ammon any possession; because I have given it unto the children of Lot for a possession.

2:20    （那地也算為利乏音人之地，先前利乏音人住在那裡，亞捫人稱他們為散送冥。
(That also was accounted a land of giants: giants dwelt therein in old time; and the Ammonites call them Zamzummims;

2:21    那民眾多，身體高大，像亞衲人一樣，但耶和華從亞捫人面前除滅他們，亞捫人就得了他們的地，接著居住。
A people great, and many, and tall, as the Anakims; but the LORD destroyed them before them; and they succeeded them, and dwelt in their stead:

2:22    正如耶和華從前為住西珥的以掃子孫將何利人從他們面前除滅，他們得了何利人的地，接著居住一樣，直到今日。
As he did to the children of Esau, which dwelt in Seir, when he destroyed the Horims from before them; and they succeeded them, and dwelt in their stead even unto this day:

2:23    從迦斐托出來的迦斐託人將先前住在鄉村直到迦薩的亞衛人除滅，接著居住。）
And the Avims which dwelt in Hazerim, even unto Azzah, the Caphtorims, which came forth out of Caphtor, destroyed them, and dwelt in their stead.)

2:24    你們起來前往，過亞嫩谷。我已將亞摩利人希實本王西巨集和他的地交在你手中，你要與他爭戰，得他的地為業。
Rise ye up, take your journey, and pass over the river Arnon: behold, I have given into thine hand Sihon the Amorite, king of Heshbon, and his land: begin to possess it, and contend with him in battle.

2:25    從今日起，我要使天下萬民聽見你的名聲都驚恐懼怕，且因你發顫傷慟。
This day will I begin to put the dread of thee and the fear of thee upon the nations that are under the whole heaven, who shall hear report of thee, and shall tremble, and be in anguish because of thee.

2:26    我從基底莫的曠野差遣使者去見希實本王西巨集，用和睦的話說，
And I sent messengers out of the wilderness of Kedemoth unto Sihon king of Heshbon with words of peace, saying,

2:27    求你容我從你的地經過，只走大道，不偏左右。
Let me pass through thy land: I will go along by the high way, I will neither turn unto the right hand nor to the left.

2:28    你可以賣糧給我吃，也可以賣水給我喝，只要容我步行過去，
Thou shalt sell me meat for money, that I may eat; and give me water for money, that I may drink: only I will pass through on my feet;

2:29    就如住西珥的以掃子孫和住亞珥的摩押人待我一樣，等我過了約旦河，好進入耶和華我們神所賜給我們的地。
(As the children of Esau which dwell in Seir, and the Moabites which dwell in Ar, did unto me;) until I shall pass over Jordan into the land which the LORD our God giveth us.

2:30    但希實本王西巨集不容我們從他那裡經過。因為耶和華你的神使他心中剛硬，性情頑梗，為要將他交在你手中，像今日一樣。
But Sihon king of Heshbon would not let us pass by him: for the LORD thy God hardened his spirit, and made his heart obstinate, that he might deliver him into thy hand, as appeareth this day.

2:31    耶和華對我說，從此起首，我要將西巨集和他的地交給你。你要得他的地為業。
And the LORD said unto me, Behold, I have begun to give Sihon and his land before thee: begin to possess, that thou mayest inherit his land.

2:32    那時，西巨集和他的眾民出來攻擊我們，在雅雜與我們交戰。
Then Sihon came out against us, he and all his people, to fight at Jahaz.

2:33    耶和華我們的神將他交給我們，我們就把他和他的兒子，並他的眾民，都擊殺了。
And the LORD our God delivered him before us; and we smote him, and his sons, and all his people.

2:34    我們奪了他的一切城邑，將有人煙的各城，連女人帶孩子，盡都毀滅，沒有留下一個。
And we took all his cities at that time, and utterly destroyed the men, and the women, and the little ones, of every city, we left none to remain:

2:35    惟有牲畜和所奪的各城，並其中的財物，都取為自己的掠物。
Only the cattle we took for a prey unto ourselves, and the spoil of the cities which we took.

2:36    從亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥和谷中的城，直到基列，耶和華我們的神都交給我們了，沒有一座城高得使我們不能攻取的。
From Aroer, which is by the brink of the river of Arnon, and from the city that is by the river, even unto Gilead, there was not one city too strong for us: the LORD our God delivered all unto us:

2:37    惟有亞捫人之地，凡靠近雅博河的地，並山地的城邑，與耶和華我們神所禁止我們去的地方，都沒有挨近。
Only unto the land of the children of Ammon thou camest not, nor unto any place of the river Jabbok, nor unto the cities in the mountains, nor unto whatsoever the LORD our God forbad us.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


3:1    以後，我們轉回，向巴珊去。巴珊王噩和他的眾民都出來，在以得來與我們交戰。
Then we turned, and went up the way to Bashan: and Og the king of Bashan came out against us, he and all his people, to battle at Edrei.

3:2    耶和華對我說，不要怕他。因我已將他和他的眾民，並他的地，都交在你手中。你要待他像從前待住希實本的亞摩利王西巨集一樣。
And the LORD said unto me, Fear him not: for I will deliver him, and all his people, and his land, into thy hand; and thou shalt do unto him as thou didst unto Sihon king of the Amorites, which dwelt at Heshbon.

3:3    於是耶和華我們的神硬將巴珊王噩和他的眾民都交在我們手中。我們殺了他們，沒有留下一個。
So the LORD our God delivered into our hands Og also, the king of Bashan, and all his people: and we smote him until none was left to him remaining.

3:4    那時，我們奪了他所有的城，共有六十座，沒有一座城不被我們所奪。這為亞珥歌伯的全境，就是巴珊地噩王的國。
And we took all his cities at that time, there was not a city which we took not from them, threescore cities, all the region of Argob, the kingdom of Og in Bashan.

3:5    這些城都有堅固的高牆，有門有閂。此外還有許多無城牆的鄉村。
All these cities were fenced with high walls, gates, and bars; beside unwalled towns a great many.

3:6    我們將這些都毀滅了，像從前待希實本王西巨集一樣，把有人煙的各城，連女人帶孩子，盡都毀滅。
And we utterly destroyed them, as we did unto Sihon king of Heshbon, utterly destroying the men, women, and children, of every city.

3:7    惟有一切牲畜和城中的財物都取為自己的掠物。
But all the cattle, and the spoil of the cities, we took for a prey to ourselves.

3:8    那時，我們從約旦河東兩個亞摩利王的手將亞嫩谷直到黑門山之地奪過來
And we took at that time out of the hand of the two kings of the Amorites the land that was on this side Jordan, from the river of Arnon unto mount Hermon;

3:9    （這黑門山，西頓人稱為西連，亞摩利人稱為示尼珥），
(Which Hermon the Sidonians call Sirion; and the Amorites call it Shenir;)

3:10    就是奪了平原的各城，基列全地，巴珊全地，直到撒迦和以得來，都是巴珊王噩國內的城邑。
All the cities of the plain, and all Gilead, and all Bashan, unto Salchah and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan.

3:11    （利乏音人所剩下的只有巴珊王噩。他的床是鐵的，長九肘，寬四肘，都是以人肘為度。現今豈不是在亞捫人的拉巴嗎，）
For only Og king of Bashan remained of the remnant of giants; behold, his bedstead was a bedstead of iron; is it not in Rabbath of the children of Ammon? nine cubits was the length thereof, and four cubits the breadth of it, after the cubit of a man.

3:12    那時，我們得了這地。從亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥起，我將基列山地的一半，並其中的城邑，都給了流便人和迦得人。
And this land, which we possessed at that time, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, and half mount Gilead, and the cities thereof, gave I unto the Reubenites and to the Gadites.

3:13    其餘的基列地和巴珊全地，就是噩王的國，我給了瑪拿西半支派。亞珥歌伯全地乃是巴珊全地。這叫作利乏音人之地。
And the rest of Gilead, and all Bashan, being the kingdom of Og, gave I unto the half tribe of Manasseh; all the region of Argob, with all Bashan, which was called the land of giants.

3:14    瑪拿西的子孫睚珥佔了亞珥歌伯全境，直到基述人和瑪迦人的交界，就按自己的名稱這巴珊地為哈倭特睚珥，直到今日。
Jair the son of Manasseh took all the country of Argob unto the coasts of Geshuri and Maachathi; and called them after his own name, Bashanhavothjair, unto this day.

3:15    我又將基列給了瑪吉。
And I gave Gilead unto Machir.

3:16    從基列到亞嫩谷，以谷中為界，直到亞捫人交界的雅博河，我給了流便人和迦得人，
And unto the Reubenites and unto the Gadites I gave from Gilead even unto the river Arnon half the valley, and the border even unto the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;

3:17    又將亞拉巴和靠近約旦河之地，從基尼烈直到亞拉巴海，就是鹽海，並毗斯迦山根東邊之地，都給了他們。
The plain also, and Jordan, and the coast thereof, from Chinnereth even unto the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, under Ashdothpisgah eastward.

3:18    那時，我吩咐你們說，耶和華你們的神已將這地賜給你們為業。你們所有的勇士都要帶著兵器，在你們的弟兄以色列人前面過去。
And I commanded you at that time, saying, The LORD your God hath given you this land to possess it: ye shall pass over armed before your brethren the children of Israel, all that are meet for the war.

3:19    但你們的妻子，孩子，牲畜，（我知道你們有許多的牲畜）可以住在我所賜給你們的各城裡。
But your wives, and your little ones, and your cattle, (for I know that ye have much cattle,) shall abide in your cities which I have given you;

3:20    等到你們弟兄在約旦河那邊，也得耶和華你們神所賜給他們的地，又使他們得享平安，與你們一樣，你們才可以回到我所賜給你們為業之地。
Until the LORD have given rest unto your brethren, as well as unto you, and until they also possess the land which the LORD your God hath given them beyond Jordan: and then shall ye return every man unto his possession, which I have given you.

3:21    那時我吩咐約書亞說，你親眼看見了耶和華你神向這二王所行的。耶和華也必向你所要去的各國照樣行。
And I commanded Joshua at that time, saying, Thine eyes have seen all that the LORD your God hath done unto these two kings: so shall the LORD do unto all the kingdoms whither thou passest.

3:22    你不要怕他們，因那為你爭戰的是耶和華你的神。
Ye shall not fear them: for the LORD your God he shall fight for you.

3:23    那時，我懇求耶和華說，
And I besought the LORD at that time, saying,

3:24    主耶和華阿，你已將你的大力大能顯給僕人看。在天上，在地下，有什麼神能像你行事，像你有大能的作為呢，
O Lord GOD, thou hast begun to shew thy servant thy greatness, and thy mighty hand: for what God is there in heaven or in earth, that can do according to thy works, and according to thy might?

3:25    求你容我過去，看約旦河那邊的美地，就是那佳美的山地和黎巴嫩。
I pray thee, let me go over, and see the good land that is beyond Jordan, that goodly mountain, and Lebanon.

3:26    但耶和華因你們的緣故向我發怒，不應允我，對我說，吧了，你不要向我再提這事。
But the LORD was wroth with me for your sakes, and would not hear me: and the LORD said unto me, Let it suffice thee; speak no more unto me of this matter.

3:27    你且上毗斯迦山頂去，向東，西，南，北舉目觀望，因為你必不能過這約旦河。
Get thee up into the top of Pisgah, and lift up thine eyes westward, and northward, and southward, and eastward, and behold it with thine eyes: for thou shalt not go over this Jordan.

3:28    你卻要囑咐約書亞，勉勵他，使他膽壯。因為他必在這百姓前面過去，使他們承受你所要觀看之地。
But charge Joshua, and encourage him, and strengthen him: for he shall go over before this people, and he shall cause them to inherit the land which thou shalt see.

3:29    於是我們住在伯毗珥對面的谷中。
So we abode in the valley over against Bethpeor.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


4:1    以色列人哪，現在我所教訓你們的律例典章，你們要聽從遵行，好叫你們存活，得以進入耶和華你們列祖之神所賜給你們的地，承受為業。
Now therefore hearken, O Israel, unto the statutes and unto the judgments, which I teach you, for to do them, that ye may live, and go in and possess the land which the LORD God of your fathers giveth you.

4:2    所吩咐你們的話，你們不可加添，也不可刪減，好叫你們遵守我所吩咐的，就是耶和華你們神的命令。
Ye shall not add unto the word which I command you, neither shall ye diminish ought from it, that ye may keep the commandments of the LORD your God which I command you.

4:3    耶和華因巴力毗珥的事所行的，你們親眼看見了。凡隨從巴力毗珥的人，耶和華你們的神都從你們中間除滅了。
Your eyes have seen what the LORD did because of Baalpeor: for all the men that followed Baalpeor, the LORD thy God hath destroyed them from among you.

4:4    惟有你們專靠耶和華你們神的人，今日全都存活。
But ye that did cleave unto the LORD your God are alive every one of you this day.

4:5    我照著耶和華我神所吩咐的將律例典章教訓你們，使你們在所要進去得為業的地上遵行。
Behold, I have taught you statutes and judgments, even as the LORD my God commanded me, that ye should do so in the land whither ye go to possess it.

4:6    所以你們要謹守遵行。這就是你們在萬民眼前的智慧，聰明。他們聽見這一切律例，必說，這大國的人真是有智慧，有聰明。
Keep therefore and do them; for this is your wisdom and your understanding in the sight of the nations, which shall hear all these statutes, and say, Surely this great nation is a wise and understanding people.

4:7    哪一大國的人有神與他們相近，像耶和華我們的神，在我們求告他的時候與我們相近呢，
For what nation is there so great, who hath God so nigh unto them, as the LORD our God is in all things that we call upon him for?

4:8    又哪一大國有這樣公義的律例典章，像我今日在你們面前所陳明的這一切律法呢，
And what nation is there so great, that hath statutes and judgments so righteous as all this law, which I set before you this day?

4:9    你只要謹慎，殷勤保守你的心靈，免得忘記你親眼所看見的事，又免得你一生，這事離開你的心。總要傳給你的子子孫孫。
Only take heed to thyself, and keep thy soul diligently, lest thou forget the things which thine eyes have seen, and lest they depart from thy heart all the days of thy life: but teach them thy sons, and thy sons' sons;

4:10    你在何烈山站在耶和華你神面前的那日，耶和華對我說，你為我招聚百姓，我要叫他們聽見我的話，使他們存活在世的日子，可以學習敬畏我，又可以教訓兒女這樣行。
Specially the day that thou stoodest before the LORD thy God in Horeb, when the LORD said unto me, Gather me the people together, and I will make them hear my words, that they may learn to fear me all the days that they shall live upon the earth, and that they may teach their children.

4:11    那時你們近前來，站在山下。山上有火焰沖天，並有昏黑，密雲，幽暗。
And ye came near and stood under the mountain; and the mountain burned with fire unto the midst of heaven, with darkness, clouds, and thick darkness.

4:12    耶和華從火焰中對你們說話，你們只聽見聲音，卻沒有看見形像。
And the LORD spake unto you out of the midst of the fire: ye heard the voice of the words, but saw no similitude; only ye heard a voice.

4:13    他將所吩咐你們當守的約指示你們，就是十條誡，並將這誡寫在兩塊石版上。
And he declared unto you his covenant, which he commanded you to perform, even ten commandments; and he wrote them upon two tables of stone.

4:14    那時耶和華又吩咐我將律例典章教訓你們，使你們在所要過去得為業的地上遵行。
And the LORD commanded me at that time to teach you statutes and judgments, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go over to possess it.

4:15    所以，你們要分外謹慎。因為耶和華在何烈山，從火中對你們說話的那日，你們沒有看見什麼形像。
Take ye therefore good heed unto yourselves; for ye saw no manner of similitude on the day that the LORD spake unto you in Horeb out of the midst of the fire:

4:16    惟恐你們敗壞自己，雕刻偶像，彷佛什麼男像女像，
Lest ye corrupt yourselves, and make you a graven image, the similitude of any figure, the likeness of male or female,

4:17    或地上走獸的像，或空中飛鳥的像，
The likeness of any beast that is on the earth, the likeness of any winged fowl that flieth in the air,

4:18    或地上爬物的像，或地底下水中魚的像。
The likeness of any thing that creepeth on the ground, the likeness of any fish that is in the waters beneath the earth:

4:19    又恐怕你向天舉目觀看，見耶和華你的神為天下萬民所擺列的日月星，就是天上的永珍，自己便被勾引敬拜事奉它。
And lest thou lift up thine eyes unto heaven, and when thou seest the sun, and the moon, and the stars, even all the host of heaven, shouldest be driven to worship them, and serve them, which the LORD thy God hath divided unto all nations under the whole heaven.

4:20    耶和華將你們從埃及領出來，脫離鐵爐，要特作自己產業的子民，像今日一樣。
But the LORD hath taken you, and brought you forth out of the iron furnace, even out of Egypt, to be unto him a people of inheritance, as ye are this day.

4:21    耶和華又因你們的緣故向我發怒，起誓必不容我過約旦河，也不容我進入耶和華你神所賜你為業的那美地。
Furthermore the LORD was angry with me for your sakes, and sware that I should not go over Jordan, and that I should not go in unto that good land, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance:

4:22    我只得死在這地，不能過約旦河。但你們必過去得那美地。
But I must die in this land, I must not go over Jordan: but ye shall go over, and possess that good land.

4:23    你們要謹慎，免得忘記耶和華你們神與你們所立的約，為自己雕刻偶像，就是耶和華你神所禁止你作的偶像。
Take heed unto yourselves, lest ye forget the covenant of the LORD your God, which he made with you, and make you a graven image, or the likeness of any thing, which the LORD thy God hath forbidden thee.

4:24    因為耶和華你的神乃是烈火，是忌邪的神。
For the LORD thy God is a consuming fire, even a jealous God.

4:25    你們在那地住久了，生子生孫，就雕刻偶像，彷佛什麼形像，敗壞自己，行耶和華你神眼中看為惡的事，惹他發怒。
When thou shalt beget children, and children's children, and ye shall have remained long in the land, and shall corrupt yourselves, and make a graven image, or the likeness of any thing, and shall do evil in the sight of the LORD thy God, to provoke him to anger:

4:26    我今日呼天喚地向你們作見證，你們必在過約旦河得為業的地上速速滅盡。你們不能在那地上長久，必盡行除滅。
I call heaven and earth to witness against you this day, that ye shall soon utterly perish from off the land whereunto ye go over Jordan to possess it; ye shall not prolong your days upon it, but shall utterly be destroyed.

4:27    耶和華必使你們分散在萬民中。在他所領你們到的萬國裡，你們剩下的人數稀少。
And the LORD shall scatter you among the nations, and ye shall be left few in number among the heathen, whither the LORD shall lead you.

4:28    在那裡，你們必事奉人手所造的神，就是用木石造成，不能看，不能聽，不能吃，不能聞的神。
And there ye shall serve gods, the work of men's hands, wood and stone, which neither see, nor hear, nor eat, nor smell.

4:29    但你們在那裡必尋求耶和華你的神。你盡心儘性尋求他的時候，就必尋見。
But if from thence thou shalt seek the LORD thy God, thou shalt find him, if thou seek him with all thy heart and with all thy soul.

4:30    日後你遭遇一切患難的時候，你必歸回耶和華你的神，聽從他的話。
When thou art in tribulation, and all these things are come upon thee, even in the latter days, if thou turn to the LORD thy God, and shalt be obedient unto his voice;

4:31    耶和華你神原是有憐憫的神。他總不撇下你，不滅絕你，也不忘記他起誓與你列祖所立的約。
(For the LORD thy God is a merciful God;) he will not forsake thee, neither destroy thee, nor forget the covenant of thy fathers which he sware unto them.

4:32    你且考察在你以前的世代，自神造人在世以來，從天這邊到天那邊，曾有何民聽見神在火中說話的聲音，像你聽見還能存活呢，
For ask now of the days that are past, which were before thee, since the day that God created man upon the earth, and ask from the one side of heaven unto the other, whether there hath been any such thing as this great thing is, or hath been heard like it?

4:33    這樣的大事何曾有，何曾聽見呢，
Did ever people hear the voice of God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as thou hast heard, and live?

4:34    神何曾從別的國中將一國的人民領出來，用試驗，神蹟，奇事，爭戰，大能的手，和伸出來的膀臂，並大可畏的事，像耶和華你們的神在埃及，在你們眼前為你們所行的一切事呢，
Or hath God assayed to go and take him a nation from the midst of another nation, by temptations, by signs, and by wonders, and by war, and by a mighty hand, and by a stretched out arm, and by great terrors, according to all that the LORD your God did for you in Egypt before your eyes?

4:35    這是顯給你看，要使你知道，惟有耶和華他是神，除他以外，再無別神。
Unto thee it was shewed, that thou mightest know that the LORD he is God; there is none else beside him.

4:36    他從天上使你聽見他的聲音，為要教訓你，又在地上使你看見他的烈火，並且聽見他從火中所說的話。
Out of heaven he made thee to hear his voice, that he might instruct thee: and upon earth he shewed thee his great fire; and thou heardest his words out of the midst of the fire.

4:37    因他愛你的列祖，所以揀選他們的後裔，用大能親自領你出了埃及，
And because he loved thy fathers, therefore he chose their seed after them, and brought thee out in his sight with his mighty power out of Egypt;

4:38    要將比你強大的國民從你面前趕出，領你進去，將他們的地賜你為業，像今日一樣。
To drive out nations from before thee greater and mightier than thou art, to bring thee in, to give thee their land for an inheritance, as it is this day.

4:39    所以，今日你要知道，也要記在心上，天上地下惟有耶和華他是神，除他以外，再無別神。
Know therefore this day, and consider it in thine heart, that the LORD he is God in heaven above, and upon the earth beneath: there is none else.

4:40    我今日將他的律例誡命曉諭你，你要遵守，使你和你的子孫可以得福，並使你的日子在耶和華你神所賜的地上得以長久。
Thou shalt keep therefore his statutes, and his commandments, which I command thee this day, that it may go well with thee, and with thy children after thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days upon the earth, which the LORD thy God giveth thee, for ever.

4:41    那時，摩西在約旦河東，向日出之地，分定三座城，
Then Moses severed three cities on this side Jordan toward the sunrising;

4:42    使那素無仇恨，無心殺了人的，可以逃到這三城之中的一座城，就得存活，
That the slayer might flee thither, which should kill his neighbour unawares, and hated him not in times past; and that fleeing unto one of these cities he might live:

4:43    為流便人分定曠野平原的比悉。為迦得人分定基列的拉末。為瑪拿西人分定巴珊的哥蘭。
Namely, Bezer in the wilderness, in the plain country, of the Reubenites; and Ramoth in Gilead, of the Gadites; and Golan in Bashan, of the Manassites.

4:44    摩西在以色列人面前所陳明的律法
And this is the law which Moses set before the children of Israel:

4:45    就是摩西在以色列人出埃及後所傳給他們的法度，律例，典章。
These are the testimonies, and the statutes, and the judgments, which Moses spake unto the children of Israel, after they came forth out of Egypt,

4:46    在約旦河東伯毗珥對面的谷中，在住希實本，亞摩利王西巨集之地。這西巨集是摩西和以色列人出埃及後所擊殺的。
On this side Jordan, in the valley over against Bethpeor, in the land of Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt at Heshbon, whom Moses and the children of Israel smote, after they were come forth out of Egypt:

4:47    他們得了他的地，又得了巴珊王噩的地，就是兩個亞摩利王，在約旦河東向日出之地。
And they possessed his land, and the land of Og king of Bashan, two kings of the Amorites, which were on this side Jordan toward the sunrising;

4:48    從亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥，直到西雲山，就是黑門山。
From Aroer, which is by the bank of the river Arnon, even unto mount Sion, which is Hermon,

4:49    還有約旦河東的全亞拉巴，直到亞拉巴海，靠近毗斯迦山根。
And all the plain on this side Jordan eastward, even unto the sea of the plain, under the springs of Pisgah.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


5:1    摩西將以色列眾人召了來，對他們說，以色列人哪，我今日曉諭你們的律例典章，你們要聽，可以學習，謹守遵行。
And Moses called all Israel, and said unto them, Hear, O Israel, the statutes and judgments which I speak in your ears this day, that ye may learn them, and keep, and do them.

5:2    耶和華我們的神在何烈山與我們立約。
The LORD our God made a covenant with us in Horeb.

5:3    這約不是與我們列祖立的，乃是與我們今日在這裡存活之人立的。
The LORD made not this covenant with our fathers, but with us, even us, who are all of us here alive this day.

5:4    耶和華在山上，從火中，面對面與你們說話。
The LORD talked with you face to face in the mount out of the midst of the fire,

5:5    （那時我站在耶和華和你們中間，要將耶和華的話傳給你們，因為你們懼怕那火，沒有上山）
(I stood between the LORD and you at that time, to shew you the word of the LORD: for ye were afraid by reason of the fire, and went not up into the mount;) saying,

5:6    說，我是耶和華你的神，曾將你從埃及地為奴之家領出來。
I am the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.

5:7    除了我以外，你不可有別的神。
Thou shalt have none other gods before me.

5:8    不可為自己雕刻偶像，也不可作什麼形像，彷佛上天，下地和地底下，水中的百物。
Thou shalt not make thee any graven image, or any likeness of any thing that is in heaven above, or that is in the earth beneath, or that is in the waters beneath the earth:

5:9    不可跪拜那些像，也不可事奉它，因為我耶和華你的神是忌邪的神。恨我的，我必追討他的罪，自父及子，直到三，四代。
Thou shalt not bow down thyself unto them, nor serve them: for I the LORD thy God am a jealous God, visiting the iniquity of the fathers upon the children unto the third and fourth generation of them that hate me,

5:10    愛我，守我誡命的，我必向他們發慈愛，直到千代。
And shewing mercy unto thousands of them that love me and keep my commandments.

5:11    不可妄稱耶和華你神的名。因為妄稱耶和華名的，耶和華必不以他為無罪。
Thou shalt not take the name of the LORD thy God in vain: for the LORD will not hold him guiltless that taketh his name in vain.

5:12    當照耶和華你神所吩咐的守安息日為聖日。
Keep the sabbath day to sanctify it, as the LORD thy God hath commanded thee.

5:13    六日要勞碌作你一切的工，
Six days thou shalt labour, and do all thy work:

5:14    但第七日是向耶和華你神當守的安息日。這一日，你和你的兒女，僕婢，牛，驢，牲畜，並在你城裡寄居的客旅，無論何工都不可作，使你的僕婢可以和你一樣安息。
But the seventh day is the sabbath of the LORD thy God: in it thou shalt not do any work, thou, nor thy son, nor thy daughter, nor thy manservant, nor thy maidservant, nor thine ox, nor thine ass, nor any of thy cattle, nor thy stranger that is within thy gates; that thy manservant and thy maidservant may rest as well as thou.

5:15    你也要記念你在埃及地作過奴僕。耶和華你神用大能的手和伸出來的膀臂將你從那裡領出來。因此，耶和華你的神吩咐你守安息日。
And remember that thou wast a servant in the land of Egypt, and that the LORD thy God brought thee out thence through a mighty hand and by a stretched out arm: therefore the LORD thy God commanded thee to keep the sabbath day.

5:16    當照耶和華你神所吩咐的孝敬父母，使你得福，並使你的日子在耶和華你神所賜你的地上得以長久。
Honour thy father and thy mother, as the LORD thy God hath commanded thee; that thy days may be prolonged, and that it may go well with thee, in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

5:17    不可殺人。
Thou shalt not kill.

5:18    不可姦淫。
Neither shalt thou commit adultery.

5:19    不可偷盜。
Neither shalt thou steal.

5:20    不可作假見證陷害人。
Neither shalt thou bear false witness against thy neighbour.

5:21    不可貪戀人的妻子。也不可貪圖人的房屋，田地，僕婢，牛，驢，並他一切所有的。
Neither shalt thou desire thy neighbour's wife, neither shalt thou covet thy neighbour's house, his field, or his manservant, or his maidservant, his ox, or his ass, or any thing that is thy neighbour's.

5:22    這些話是耶和華在山上，從火中，雲中，幽暗中，大聲曉諭你們全會眾的。此外並沒有添別的話。他就把這話寫在兩塊石版上，交給我了。
These words the LORD spake unto all your assembly in the mount out of the midst of the fire, of the cloud, and of the thick darkness, with a great voice: and he added no more. And he wrote them in two tables of stone, and delivered them unto me.

5:23    那時，火焰燒山，你們聽見從黑暗中出來的聲音。你們支派中所有的首領和長老都來就近我，
And it came to pass, when ye heard the voice out of the midst of the darkness, (for the mountain did burn with fire,) that ye came near unto me, even all the heads of your tribes, and your elders;

5:24    說，看哪，耶和華我們神將他的榮光和他的大能顯給我們看，我們又聽見他的聲音從火中出來。今日我們得見神與人說話，人還存活。
And ye said, Behold, the LORD our God hath shewed us his glory and his greatness, and we have heard his voice out of the midst of the fire: we have seen this day that God doth talk with man, and he liveth.

5:25    現在這大火將要燒滅我們，我們何必冒死呢，若再聽見耶和華我們神的聲音就必死亡。
Now therefore why should we die? for this great fire will consume us: if we hear the voice of the LORD our God any more, then we shall die.

5:26    凡屬血氣的，曾有何人聽見永生神的聲音從火中出來，像我們聽見還能存活呢，
For who is there of all flesh, that hath heard the voice of the living God speaking out of the midst of the fire, as we have, and lived?

5:27    求你近前去，聽耶和華我們神所要說的一切話，將他對你說的話都傳給我們，我們就聽從遵行。
Go thou near, and hear all that the LORD our God shall say: and speak thou unto us all that the LORD our God shall speak unto thee; and we will hear it, and do it.

5:28    你們對我說的話，耶和華都聽見了。耶和華對我說，這百姓的話，我聽見了。他們所說的都是。
And the LORD heard the voice of your words, when ye spake unto me; and the LORD said unto me, I have heard the voice of the words of this people, which they have spoken unto thee: they have well said all that they have spoken.

5:29    惟願他們存這樣的心敬畏我，常遵守我的一切誡命，使他們和他們的子孫永遠得福。
O that there were such an heart in them, that they would fear me, and keep all my commandments always, that it might be well with them, and with their children for ever!

5:30    你去對他們說，你們回帳棚去吧。
Go say to them, Get you into your tents again.

5:31    至於你，可以站在我這裡，我要將一切誡命，律例，典章傳給你。你要教訓他們，使他們在我賜他們為業的地上遵行。
But as for thee, stand thou here by me, and I will speak unto thee all the commandments, and the statutes, and the judgments, which thou shalt teach them, that they may do them in the land which I give them to possess it.

5:32    所以，你們要照耶和華你們神所吩咐的謹守遵行，不可偏離左右。
Ye shall observe to do therefore as the LORD your God hath commanded you: ye shall not turn aside to the right hand or to the left.

5:33    耶和華你們神所吩咐你們行的，你們都要去行，使你們可以存活得福，並使你們的日子在所要承受的地上得以長久。
Ye shall walk in all the ways which the LORD your God hath commanded you, that ye may live, and that it may be well with you, and that ye may prolong your days in the land which ye shall possess.





舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


6:1    這是耶和華你們神所吩咐教訓你們的誡命，律例，典章，使你們在所要過去得為業的地上遵行，
Now these are the commandments, the statutes, and the judgments, which the LORD your God commanded to teach you, that ye might do them in the land whither ye go to possess it:

6:2    好叫你和你子子孫孫一生敬畏耶和華你的神，謹守他的一切律例誡命，就是我所吩咐你的，使你的日子得以長久。
That thou mightest fear the LORD thy God, to keep all his statutes and his commandments, which I command thee, thou, and thy son, and thy son's son, all the days of thy life; and that thy days may be prolonged.

6:3    以色列阿，你要聽，要謹守遵行，使你可以在那流奶與蜜之地得以享福，人數極其增多，正如耶和華你列祖的神所應許你的。
Hear therefore, O Israel, and observe to do it; that it may be well with thee, and that ye may increase mightily, as the LORD God of thy fathers hath promised thee, in the land that floweth with milk and honey.

6:4    以色列阿，你要聽。耶和華我們神是獨一的主。
Hear, O Israel: The LORD our God is one LORD:

6:5    你要盡心，儘性，盡力愛耶和華你的神。
And thou shalt love the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, and with all thy might.

6:6    我今日所吩咐你的話都要記在心上，
And these words, which I command thee this day, shall be in thine heart:

6:7    也要殷勤教訓你的兒女。無論你坐在家裡，行在路上，躺下，起來，都要談論。
And thou shalt teach them diligently unto thy children, and shalt talk of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, and when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.

6:8    也要系在手上為記號，戴在額上為經文。
And thou shalt bind them for a sign upon thine hand, and they shall be as frontlets between thine eyes.

6:9    又要寫在你房屋的門框上，並你的城門上。
And thou shalt write them upon the posts of thy house, and on thy gates.

6:10    耶和華你的神領你進他向你列祖亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各起誓應許給你的地。那裡有城邑，又大又美，非你所建造的。
And it shall be, when the LORD thy God shall have brought thee into the land which he sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give thee great and goodly cities, which thou buildedst not,

6:11    有房屋，裝滿各樣美物，非你所裝滿的。有鑿成的水井，非你所鑿成的。還有葡萄園，橄欖園，非你所栽種的。你吃了而且飽足。
And houses full of all good things, which thou filledst not, and wells digged, which thou diggedst not, vineyards and olive trees, which thou plantedst not; when thou shalt have eaten and be full;

6:12    那時你要謹慎，免得你忘記將你從埃及地，為奴之家領出來的耶和華。
Then beware lest thou forget the LORD, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.

6:13    你要敬畏耶和華你的神，事奉他，指著他的名起誓。
Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God, and serve him, and shalt swear by his name.

6:14    不可隨從別神，就是你們四圍國民的神。
Ye shall not go after other gods, of the gods of the people which are round about you;

6:15    因為在你們中間的耶和華你神是忌邪的神，惟恐耶和華你神的怒氣向你發作，就把你從地上除滅。
(For the LORD thy God is a jealous God among you) lest the anger of the LORD thy God be kindled against thee, and destroy thee from off the face of the earth.

6:16    你們不可試探耶和華你們的神，像你們在瑪撒那樣試探他。
Ye shall not tempt the LORD your God, as ye tempted him in Massah.

6:17    要留意遵守耶和華你們神所吩咐的誡命，法度，律例。
Ye shall diligently keep the commandments of the LORD your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he hath commanded thee.

6:18    耶和華眼中看為正，看為善的，你都要遵行，使你可以享福，並可以進去得耶和華向你列祖起誓應許的那美地，
And thou shalt do that which is right and good in the sight of the LORD: that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest go in and possess the good land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers,

6:19    照耶和華所說的，從你面前攆出你的一切仇敵。
To cast out all thine enemies from before thee, as the LORD hath spoken.

6:20    日後，你的兒子問你說，耶和華我們神吩咐你們的這些法度，律例，典章是什麼意思呢，
And when thy son asketh thee in time to come, saying, What mean the testimonies, and the statutes, and the judgments, which the LORD our God hath commanded you?

6:21    你就告訴你的兒子說，我們在埃及作過法老的奴僕。耶和華用大能的手將我們從埃及領出來，
Then thou shalt say unto thy son, We were Pharaoh's bondmen in Egypt; and the LORD brought us out of Egypt with a mighty hand:

6:22    在我們眼前，將重大可怕的神蹟奇事施行在埃及地和法老並他全家的身上，
And the LORD shewed signs and wonders, great and sore, upon Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his household, before our eyes:



6:23    將我們從那裡領出來，要領我們進入他向我們列祖起誓應許之地，把這地賜給我們。
And he brought us out from thence, that he might bring us in, to give us the land which he sware unto our fathers.

6:24    耶和華又吩咐我們遵行這一切律例，要敬畏耶和華我們的神，使我們常得好處，蒙他保全我們的生命，像今日一樣。
And the LORD commanded us to do all these statutes, to fear the LORD our God, for our good always, that he might preserve us alive, as it is at this day.

6:25    我們若照耶和華我們神所吩咐的一切誡命謹守遵行，這就是我們的義了。
And it shall be our righteousness, if we observe to do all these commandments before the LORD our God, as he hath commanded us.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


7:1    耶和華你神領你進入要得為業之地，從你面前趕出許多國民，就是赫人，革迦撒人，亞摩利人，迦南人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人，共七國的民，都比你強大。
When the LORD thy God shall bring thee into the land whither thou goest to possess it, and hath cast out many nations before thee, the Hittites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, seven nations greater and mightier than thou;

7:2    耶和華你神將他們交給你擊殺，那時你要把他們滅絕淨盡，不可與他們立約，也不可憐恤他們。
And when the LORD thy God shall deliver them before thee; thou shalt smite them, and utterly destroy them; thou shalt make no covenant with them, nor shew mercy unto them:

7:3    不可與他們結親。不可將你的女兒嫁他們的兒子，也不可叫你的兒子娶他們的女兒。
Neither shalt thou make marriages with them; thy daughter thou shalt not give unto his son, nor his daughter shalt thou take unto thy son.

7:4    因為他必使你兒子轉離不跟從主，去事奉別神，以致耶和華的怒氣向你們發作，就速速地將你們滅絕。
For they will turn away thy son from following me, that they may serve other gods: so will the anger of the LORD be kindled against you, and destroy thee suddenly.

7:5    你們卻要這樣待他們，拆毀他們的祭壇，打碎他們的柱像，砍下他們的木偶，用火焚燒他們雕刻的偶像。
But thus shall ye deal with them; ye shall destroy their altars, and break down their images, and cut down their groves, and burn their graven images with fire.

7:6    因為你歸耶和華你神為聖潔的民。耶和華你神從地上的萬民中揀選你，特作自己的子民。
For thou art an holy people unto the LORD thy God: the LORD thy God hath chosen thee to be a special people unto himself, above all people that are upon the face of the earth.

7:7    耶和華專愛你們，揀選你們，並非因你們的人數多於別民，原來你們的人數在萬民中是最少的。
The LORD did not set his love upon you, nor choose you, because ye were more in number than any people; for ye were the fewest of all people:

7:8    只因耶和華愛你們，又因要守他向你們列祖所起的誓，就用大能的手領你們出來，從為奴之家救贖你們脫離埃及王法老的手。
But because the LORD loved you, and because he would keep the oath which he had sworn unto your fathers, hath the LORD brought you out with a mighty hand, and redeemed you out of the house of bondmen, from the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt.

7:9    所以，你要知道耶和華你的神，他是神，是信實的神。向愛他，守他誡命的人守約，施慈愛，直到千代。
Know therefore that the LORD thy God, he is God, the faithful God, which keepeth covenant and mercy with them that love him and keep his commandments to a thousand generations;

7:10    向恨他的人當面報應他們，將他們滅絕。凡恨他的人必報應他們，決不遲延。
And repayeth them that hate him to their face, to destroy them: he will not be slack to him that hateth him, he will repay him to his face.

7:11    所以，你要謹守遵行我今日所吩改你的誡命，律例，典章。
Thou shalt therefore keep the commandments, and the statutes, and the judgments, which I command thee this day, to do them.

7:12    你們果然聽從這些典章，謹守遵行，耶和華你神就必照他向你列祖所起的誓守約，施慈愛。
Wherefore it shall come to pass, if ye hearken to these judgments, and keep, and do them, that the LORD thy God shall keep unto thee the covenant and the mercy which he sware unto thy fathers:

7:13    他必愛你，賜福與你，使你人數增多，也必在他向你列祖起誓應許給你的地上賜福與你身所生的，地所產的，並你的五穀，新酒，和油，以及牛犢，羊羔。
And he will love thee, and bless thee, and multiply thee: he will also bless the fruit of thy womb, and the fruit of thy land, thy corn, and thy wine, and thine oil, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep, in the land which he sware unto thy fathers to give thee.

7:14    你必蒙福勝過萬民。你們的男女沒有不能生養的，牲畜也沒有不能生育的。
Thou shalt be blessed above all people: there shall not be male or female barren among you, or among your cattle.

7:15    耶和華必使一切的病症離開你。你所知道埃及各樣的惡疾，他不加在你身上，只加在一切恨你的人身上。
And the LORD will take away from thee all sickness, and will put none of the evil diseases of Egypt, which thou knowest, upon thee; but will lay them upon all them that hate thee.

7:16    耶和華你神所要交給你的一切人民，你要將他們除滅。你眼不可顧惜他們。你也不可事奉他們的神，因這必成為你的網羅。
And thou shalt consume all the people which the LORD thy God shall deliver thee; thine eye shall have no pity upon them: neither shalt thou serve their gods; for that will be a snare unto thee.

7:17    你若心裡說，這些國的民比我更多，我怎能趕出他們呢，
If thou shalt say in thine heart, These nations are more than I; how can I dispossess them?

7:18    你不要懼怕他們，要牢牢記念耶和華你神向法老和埃及全地所行的事，
Thou shalt not be afraid of them: but shalt well remember what the LORD thy God did unto Pharaoh, and unto all Egypt;

7:19    就是你親眼所看見的大試驗，神蹟，奇事，和大能的手，並伸出來的膀臂，都是耶和華你神領你出來所用的。耶和華你神必照樣待你所懼怕的一切人。
The great temptations which thine eyes saw, and the signs, and the wonders, and the mighty hand, and the stretched out arm, whereby the LORD thy God brought thee out: so shall the LORD thy God do unto all the people of whom thou art afraid.

7:20    並且耶和華你神必打發黃蜂飛到他們中間，直到那剩下而藏躲的人從你面前滅亡。
Moreover the LORD thy God will send the hornet among them, until they that are left, and hide themselves from thee, be destroyed.

7:21    你不要因他們驚恐，因為耶和華你神在你們中間是大而可畏的神。
Thou shalt not be affrighted at them: for the LORD thy God is among you, a mighty God and terrible.

7:22    耶和華你神必將這些國的民從你面前漸漸趕出。你不可把他們速速滅盡，恐怕野地的獸多起來害你。
And the LORD thy God will put out those nations before thee by little and little: thou mayest not consume them at once, lest the beasts of the field increase upon thee.

7:23    耶和華你神必將他們交給你，大大地擾亂他們，直到他們滅絕了。
But the LORD thy God shall deliver them unto thee, and shall destroy them with a mighty destruction, until they be destroyed.

7:24    又要將他們的君王交在你手中，你就使他們的名從天下消滅。必無一人能在你面前刪立得住，直到你將他們滅絕了。
And he shall deliver their kings into thine hand, and thou shalt destroy their name from under heaven: there shall no man be able to stand before thee, until thou have destroyed them.

7:25    他們雕刻的神像，你們要用火焚燒。其上的金銀，你不可貪圖，也不可收取，免得你因此陷入網羅。這原是耶和華你神所憎惡的。
The graven images of their gods shall ye burn with fire: thou shalt not desire the silver or gold that is on them, nor take it unto thee, lest thou be snared therein: for it is an abomination to the LORD thy God.



7:26    可憎的物，你不可帶進家去。不然，你就成了當毀滅的，與那物一樣。你要十分厭惡，十分憎嫌，因為這是當毀滅的物。
Neither shalt thou bring an abomination into thine house, lest thou be a cursed thing like it: but thou shalt utterly detest it, and thou shalt utterly abhor it; for it is a cursed thing.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


8:1    我今日所吩咐的一切誡命，你們要謹守遵行，好叫你們存活，人數增多，且進去得耶和華向你們列祖起誓應許的那地。
All the commandments which I command thee this day shall ye observe to do, that ye may live, and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the LORD sware unto your fathers.

8:2    你也要記念耶和華你的神在曠野引導你這四十年，是要苦煉你，試驗你，要知道你心內如何，肯守他的誡命不肯。
And thou shalt remember all the way which the LORD thy God led thee these forty years in the wilderness, to humble thee, and to prove thee, to know what was in thine heart, whether thou wouldest keep his commandments, or no.

8:3    他苦煉你，任你飢餓，將你和你列祖所不認識的嗎哪賜給你吃，使你知道，人活著不是單靠食物，乃是靠耶和華口裡所出的一切話。
And he humbled thee, and suffered thee to hunger, and fed thee with manna, which thou knewest not, neither did thy fathers know; that he might make thee know that man doth not live by bread only, but by every word that proceedeth out of the mouth of the LORD doth man live.

8:4    這四十年，你的衣服沒有穿破，你的腳也沒有腫。
Thy raiment waxed not old upon thee, neither did thy foot swell, these forty years.

8:5    你當心裡思想，耶和華你神管教你，好像人管教兒子一樣。
Thou shalt also consider in thine heart, that, as a man chasteneth his son, so the LORD thy God chasteneth thee.



8:6    你要謹守耶和華你神的誡命，遵行他的道，敬畏他。
Therefore thou shalt keep the commandments of the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, and to fear him.

8:7    因為耶和華你神領你進入美地，那地有河，有泉，有源，從山谷中流出水來。
For the LORD thy God bringeth thee into a good land, a land of brooks of water, of fountains and depths that spring out of valleys and hills;

8:8    那地有小麥，大麥，葡萄樹，無花果樹，石榴樹，橄欖樹，和蜜。
A land of wheat, and barley, and vines, and fig trees, and pomegranates; a land of oil olive, and honey;

8:9    你在那地不缺食物，一無所缺。那地的石頭是鐵，山內可以挖銅。
A land wherein thou shalt eat bread without scarceness, thou shalt not lack any thing in it; a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose hills thou mayest dig brass.

8:10    你吃得飽足，就要稱頌耶和華你的神，因他將那美地賜給你了。”
When thou hast eaten and art full, then thou shalt bless the LORD thy God for the good land which he hath given thee.

8:11    你要謹慎，免得忘記耶和華你的神，不守他的誡命，典章，律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的。
Beware that thou forget not the LORD thy God, in not keeping his commandments, and his judgments, and his statutes, which I command thee this day:

8:12    恐怕你吃得飽足，建造美好的房屋居住，
Lest when thou hast eaten and art full, and hast built goodly houses, and dwelt therein;

8:13    你的牛羊加多，你的金銀增添，並你所有的全都加增，
And when thy herds and thy flocks multiply, and thy silver and thy gold is multiplied, and all that thou hast is multiplied;

8:14    你就心高氣傲，忘記耶和華你的神，就是將你從埃及地為奴之家領出來的，
Then thine heart be lifted up, and thou forget the LORD thy God, which brought thee forth out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage;

8:15    引你經過那大而可怕的曠野，那裡有火蛇，蠍子，乾旱無水之地。他曾為你使水從堅硬的磐石中流出來，
Who led thee through that great and terrible wilderness, wherein were fiery serpents, and scorpions, and drought, where there was no water; who brought thee forth water out of the rock of flint;

8:16    又在曠野將你列祖所不認識的嗎哪賜給你吃，是要苦煉你，試驗你，叫你終久享福。
Who fed thee in the wilderness with manna, which thy fathers knew not, that he might humble thee, and that he might prove thee, to do thee good at thy latter end;

8:17    恐怕你心裡說，這貨財是我力量，我能力得來的。
And thou say in thine heart, My power and the might of mine hand hath gotten me this wealth.

8:18    你要記念耶和華你的神，因為得貨財的力量是他給你的，為要堅定他向你列祖起誓所立的約，像今日一樣。
But thou shalt remember the LORD thy God: for it is he that giveth thee power to get wealth, that he may establish his covenant which he sware unto thy fathers, as it is this day.

8:19    你若忘記耶和華你的神，隨從別神，事奉敬拜，你們必定滅亡。這是我今日警戒你們的。
And it shall be, if thou do at all forget the LORD thy God, and walk after other gods, and serve them, and worship them, I testify against you this day that ye shall surely perish.

8:20    耶和華在你們面前怎樣使列國的民滅亡，你們也必照樣滅亡，因為你們不聽從耶和華你們神的話。
As the nations which the LORD destroyeth before your face, so shall ye perish; because ye would not be obedient unto the voice of the LORD your God.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


9:1    以色列阿，你當聽。你今日要過約旦河，進去趕出比你強大的國民，得著廣大堅固，高得頂天的城邑。
Hear, O Israel: Thou art to pass over Jordan this day, to go in to possess nations greater and mightier than thyself, cities great and fenced up to heaven,

9:2    那民是亞衲族的人，又大又高，是你所知道的。也曾聽見有人指著他們說，誰能在亞衲族人面前刪立得住呢，
A people great and tall, the children of the Anakims, whom thou knowest, and of whom thou hast heard say, Who can stand before the children of Anak!

9:3    你今日當知道，耶和華你的神在你前面過去，如同烈火，要滅絕他們，將他們制伏在你面前。這樣，你就要照耶和華所說的趕出他們，使他們速速滅亡。
Understand therefore this day, that the LORD thy God is he which goeth over before thee; as a consuming fire he shall destroy them, and he shall bring them down before thy face: so shalt thou drive them out, and destroy them quickly, as the LORD hath said unto thee.

9:4    耶和華你的神將這些國民從你面前攆出以後，你心裡不可說，耶和華將我領進來得這地是因我的義。其實，耶和華將他們從你面前趕出去是因他們的惡。
Speak not thou in thine heart, after that the LORD thy God hath cast them out from before thee, saying, For my righteousness the LORD hath brought me in to possess this land: but for the wickedness of these nations the LORD doth drive them out from before thee.

9:5    你進去得他們的地，並不是因你的義，也不是因你心裡正直，乃是因這些國民的惡，耶和華你的神將他們從你面前趕出去，又因耶和華要堅定他向你列祖亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各起誓所應許的話。
Not for thy righteousness, or for the uprightness of thine heart, dost thou go to possess their land: but for the wickedness of these nations the LORD thy God doth drive them out from before thee, and that he may perform the word which the LORD sware unto thy fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob.

9:6    你當知道，耶和華你神將這美地賜你為業，並不是因你的義。你本是硬著頸項的百姓。
Understand therefore, that the LORD thy God giveth thee not this good land to possess it for thy righteousness; for thou art a stiffnecked people.

9:7    你當記念不忘，你在曠野怎樣惹耶和華你神發怒。自從你出了埃及地的那日，直到你們來到這地方，你們時常悖逆耶和華。
Remember, and forget not, how thou provokedst the LORD thy God to wrath in the wilderness: from the day that thou didst depart out of the land of Egypt, until ye came unto this place, ye have been rebellious against the LORD.

9:8    你們在何烈山又惹耶和華髮怒。他惱怒你們，要滅絕你們。
Also in Horeb ye provoked the LORD to wrath, so that the LORD was angry with you to have destroyed you.

9:9    我上了山，要領受兩塊石版，就是耶和華與你們立約的版。那時我在山上住了四十晝夜，沒有吃飯，也沒有喝水。
When I was gone up into the mount to receive the tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant which the LORD made with you, then I abode in the mount forty days and forty nights, I neither did eat bread nor drink water:

9:10    耶和華把那兩塊石版交給我，是神用指頭寫的。版上所寫的是照耶和華在大會的日子，在山上，從火中對你們所說的一切話。
And the LORD delivered unto me two tables of stone written with the finger of God; and on them was written according to all the words, which the LORD spake with you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly.

9:11    過了四十晝夜，耶和華把那兩塊石版，就是約版，交給我。
And it came to pass at the end of forty days and forty nights, that the LORD gave me the two tables of stone, even the tables of the covenant.

9:12    對我說，你起來，趕快下去。因為你從埃及領出來的百姓已經敗壞了自己。他們快快地偏離了我所吩咐的道，為自己鑄成了偶像。
And the LORD said unto me, Arise, get thee down quickly from hence; for thy people which thou hast brought forth out of Egypt have corrupted themselves; they are quickly turned aside out of the way which I commanded them; they have made them a molten image.

9:13    耶和華又對我說，我看這百姓是硬著頸項的百姓。
Furthermore the LORD spake unto me, saying, I have seen this people, and, behold, it is a stiffnecked people:

9:14    你且由著我，我要滅絕他們，將他們的名從天下塗抹，使你的後裔比他們成為更大更強的國。
Let me alone, that I may destroy them, and blot out their name from under heaven: and I will make of thee a nation mightier and greater than they.

9:15    於是我轉身下山，山被火燒著，兩塊約版在我兩手之中。
So I turned and came down from the mount, and the mount burned with fire: and the two tables of the covenant were in my two hands.

9:16    我一看見你們得罪了耶和華你們的神，鑄成了牛犢，快快地偏離了耶和華所吩咐你們的道，
And I looked, and, behold, ye had sinned against the LORD your God, and had made you a molten calf: ye had turned aside quickly out of the way which the LORD had commanded you.

9:17    我就把那兩塊版從我手中扔下去，在你們眼前摔碎了。
And I took the two tables, and cast them out of my two hands, and brake them before your eyes.

9:18    因你們所犯的一切罪，行了耶和華眼中看為惡的事，惹他發怒，我就像從前俯伏在耶和華面前四十晝夜，沒有吃飯，也沒有喝水。
And I fell down before the LORD, as at the first, forty days and forty nights: I did neither eat bread, nor drink water, because of all your sins which ye sinned, in doing wickedly in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

9:19    我因耶和華向你們大發烈怒，要滅絕你們，就甚害怕。但那次耶和華又應允了我。
For I was afraid of the anger and hot displeasure, wherewith the LORD was wroth against you to destroy you. But the LORD hearkened unto me at that time also.

9:20    耶和華也向亞倫甚是發怒，要滅絕他。那時我又為亞倫祈禱。
And the LORD was very angry with Aaron to have destroyed him: and I prayed for Aaron also the same time.

9:21    我把那叫你們犯罪所鑄的牛犢用火焚燒，又搗碎磨得很細，以致細如灰塵，我就把這灰塵撒在從山上流下來的溪水中。
And I took your sin, the calf which ye had made, and burnt it with fire, and stamped it, and ground it very small, even until it was as small as dust: and I cast the dust thereof into the brook that descended out of the mount.

9:22    你們在他備拉，瑪撒，基博羅哈他瓦又惹耶和華髮怒。
And at Taberah, and at Massah, and at Kibrothhattaavah, ye provoked the LORD to wrath.

9:23    耶和華打發你們離開加低斯巴尼亞，說，你們上去得我所賜給你們的地。那時你們違背了耶和華你們神的命令，不信服他，不聽從他的話。
Likewise when the LORD sent you from Kadeshbarnea, saying, Go up and possess the land which I have given you; then ye rebelled against the commandment of the LORD your God, and ye believed him not, nor hearkened to his voice.

9:24    自從我認識你們以來，你們常常悖逆耶和華。
Ye have been rebellious against the LORD from the day that I knew you.

9:25    我因耶和華說要滅絕你們，就在耶和華面前燒舊俯伏四十晝夜。
Thus I fell down before the LORD forty days and forty nights, as I fell down at the first; because the LORD had said he would destroy you.

9:26    我祈禱耶和華說，主耶和華阿，求你不要滅絕你的百姓。他們是你的產業，是你用大力救贖的，用大能從埃及領出來的。
I prayed therefore unto the LORD, and said, O Lord GOD, destroy not thy people and thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed through thy greatness, which thou hast brought forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand.

9:27    求你記念你的僕人亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各，不要想念這百姓的頑梗，邪惡，罪過，
Remember thy servants, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob; look not unto the stubbornness of this people, nor to their wickedness, nor to their sin:

9:28    免得你領我們出來的那地之人說，耶和華因為不能將這百姓領進他所應許之地，又因恨他們，所以領他們出去，要在曠野殺他們。
Lest the land whence thou broughtest us out say, Because the LORD was not able to bring them into the land which he promised them, and because he hated them, he hath brought them out to slay them in the wilderness.

9:29    其實他們是你的百姓，你的產業，是你用大能和伸出來的膀臂領出來的。
Yet they are thy people and thine inheritance, which thou broughtest out by thy mighty power and by thy stretched out arm.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


10:1    那時，耶和華吩咐我說，你要鑿出兩塊石版，和先前的一樣，上山到我這裡來，又要作一木櫃。
At that time the LORD said unto me, Hew thee two tables of stone like unto the first, and come up unto me into the mount, and make thee an ark of wood.

10:2    你先前摔碎的那版，其上的字我要寫在這版上。你要將這版放在櫃中。
And I will write on the tables the words that were in the first tables which thou brakest, and thou shalt put them in the ark.

10:3    於是我用皂莢木作了一櫃，又鑿出兩塊石版，和先前的一樣，手裡拿這兩塊版上山去了。
And I made an ark of shittim wood, and hewed two tables of stone like unto the first, and went up into the mount, having the two tables in mine hand.

10:4    耶和華將那大會之日，在山上從火中所傳與你們的十條誡，照先前所寫的，寫在這版上，將版交給我了。
And he wrote on the tables, according to the first writing, the ten commandments, which the LORD spake unto you in the mount out of the midst of the fire in the day of the assembly: and the LORD gave them unto me.

10:5    我轉身下山，將這版放在我所作的櫃中，現今還在那裡，正如耶和華所吩咐我的。
And I turned myself and came down from the mount, and put the tables in the ark which I had made; and there they be, as the LORD commanded me.

10:6    （以色列人從比羅比尼，亞幹（或作亞乾井）起行，到了摩西拉。亞倫死在那裡，就葬在那裡。他兒子以利亞撒接續他供祭司的職分。
And the children of Israel took their journey from Beeroth of the children of Jaakan to Mosera: there Aaron died, and there he was buried; and Eleazar his son ministered in the priest's office in his stead.

10:7    他們從那裡起行，到了谷歌大，又從谷歌大到了有溪水之地的約巴他。
From thence they journeyed unto Gudgodah; and from Gudgodah to Jotbath, a land of rivers of waters.

10:8    那時，耶和華將利未支派分別出來，抬耶和華的約櫃，又侍立在耶和華面前事奉他，奉他的名祝福，直到今日。
At that time the LORD separated the tribe of Levi, to bear the ark of the covenant of the LORD, to stand before the LORD to minister unto him, and to bless in his name, unto this day.

10:9    所以利未人在他弟兄中無分無業，耶和華是他的產業，正如耶和華你神所應許他的。）
Wherefore Levi hath no part nor inheritance with his brethren; the LORD is his inheritance, according as the LORD thy God promised him.

10:10    我又像從前在山上住了四十晝夜。那次耶和華也應允我，不忍將你滅絕。
And I stayed in the mount, according to the first time, forty days and forty nights; and the LORD hearkened unto me at that time also, and the LORD would not destroy thee.

10:11    耶和華吩咐我說，你起來引導這百姓，使他們進去得我向他們列祖起誓應許所賜之地。
And the LORD said unto me, Arise, take thy journey before the people, that they may go in and possess the land, which I sware unto their fathers to give unto them.

10:12    以色列阿，現在耶和華你神向你所要的是什麼呢，只要你敬畏耶和華你的神，遵行他的道，愛他，盡心儘性事奉他，
And now, Israel, what doth the LORD thy God require of thee, but to fear the LORD thy God, to walk in all his ways, and to love him, and to serve the LORD thy God with all thy heart and with all thy soul,

10:13    遵守他的誡命律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的，為要叫你得福。
To keep the commandments of the LORD, and his statutes, which I command thee this day for thy good?



10:14    看哪，天和天上的天，地和地上所有的，都屬耶和華你的神。
Behold, the heaven and the heaven of heavens is the LORD's thy God, the earth also, with all that therein is.

10:15    耶和華但喜悅你的列祖，愛他們，從萬民中揀選他們的後裔，就是你們，像今日一樣。
Only the LORD had a delight in thy fathers to love them, and he chose their seed after them, even you above all people, as it is this day.

10:16    所以你們要將心裡的汙穢除掉，不可再硬著頸項。
Circumcise therefore the foreskin of your heart, and be no more stiffnecked.

10:17    因為耶和華你們的神他是萬神之神，萬主之主，至大的神，大有能力，大而可畏，不以貌取人，也不受賄賂。
For the LORD your God is God of gods, and Lord of lords, a great God, a mighty, and a terrible, which regardeth not persons, nor taketh reward:

10:18    他為孤兒寡婦伸冤，又憐愛寄居的，賜給他衣食。
He doth execute the judgment of the fatherless and widow, and loveth the stranger, in giving him food and raiment.

10:19    所以你們要憐愛寄居的，因為你們在埃及地也作過寄居的。
Love ye therefore the stranger: for ye were strangers in the land of Egypt.

10:20    你要敬畏耶和華你的神，事奉他，專靠他，也要指著他的名起誓。
Thou shalt fear the LORD thy God; him shalt thou serve, and to him shalt thou cleave, and swear by his name.

10:21    他是你所讚美的，是你的神，為你作了那大而可畏的事，是你親眼所看見的。
He is thy praise, and he is thy God, that hath done for thee these great and terrible things, which thine eyes have seen.

10:22    你的列祖七十人下埃及。現在耶和華你的神使你如同天上的星那樣多。
Thy fathers went down into Egypt with threescore and ten persons; and now the LORD thy God hath made thee as the stars of heaven for multitude.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


11:1    你要愛耶和華你的神，常守他的吩咐，律例，典章，誡命。
Therefore thou shalt love the LORD thy God, and keep his charge, and his statutes, and his judgments, and his commandments, alway.

11:2    你們今日當知道，我本不是和你們的兒女說話。因為他們不知道，也沒有看見耶和華你們神的管教，威嚴，大能的手，和伸出來的膀臂，
And know ye this day: for I speak not with your children which have not known, and which have not seen the chastisement of the LORD your God, his greatness, his mighty hand, and his stretched out arm,

11:3    並他在埃及中向埃及王法老和其全地所行的神蹟奇事。
And his miracles, and his acts, which he did in the midst of Egypt unto Pharaoh the king of Egypt, and unto all his land;

11:4    也沒有看見他怎樣待埃及的軍兵，車馬，他們追趕你們的時候，耶和華怎樣使紅海的水淹沒他們，將他們滅絕，直到今日，
And what he did unto the army of Egypt, unto their horses, and to their chariots; how he made the water of the Red sea to overflow them as they pursued after you, and how the LORD hath destroyed them unto this day;

11:5    並他在曠野怎樣待你們，以致你們來到這地方。
And what he did unto you in the wilderness, until ye came into this place;

11:6    也沒有看見他怎樣待流便子孫以利押的兒子大坍，亞比蘭，地怎樣在以色列人中間開口，吞了他們和他們的家眷，並帳棚與跟他們的一切活物。
And what he did unto Dathan and Abiram, the sons of Eliab, the son of Reuben: how the earth opened her mouth, and swallowed them up, and their households, and their tents, and all the substance that was in their possession, in the midst of all Israel:

11:7    惟有你們親眼看見耶和華所作的一切大事。
But your eyes have seen all the great acts of the LORD which he did.

11:8    所以，你們要守我今日所吩咐的一切誡命，使你們膽壯，能以進去，得你們所要得的那地，
Therefore shall ye keep all the commandments which I command you this day, that ye may be strong, and go in and possess the land, whither ye go to possess it;

11:9    並使你們的日子在耶和華向你們列祖起誓，應許給他們和他們後裔的地上得以長久。那是流奶與蜜之地。
And that ye may prolong your days in the land, which the LORD sware unto your fathers to give unto them and to their seed, a land that floweth with milk and honey.

11:10    你要進去得為業的那地，本不像你出來的埃及地。你在那裡撒種，用腳澆灌，像澆灌菜園一樣。
For the land, whither thou goest in to possess it, is not as the land of Egypt, from whence ye came out, where thou sowedst thy seed, and wateredst it with thy foot, as a garden of herbs:

11:11    你們要過去得為業的那地乃是有山有谷，雨水滋潤之地，
But the land, whither ye go to possess it, is a land of hills and valleys, and drinketh water of the rain of heaven:

11:12    是耶和華你神所眷顧的。從歲首到年終，耶和華你神的眼目時常看顧那地。
A land which the LORD thy God careth for: the eyes of the LORD thy God are always upon it, from the beginning of the year even unto the end of the year.

11:13    你們若留意聽從我今日所吩咐的誡命，愛耶和華你們的神，盡心儘性事奉他，
And it shall come to pass, if ye shall hearken diligently unto my commandments which I command you this day, to love the LORD your God, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul,

11:14    他（原文作我）必按時降秋雨春雨在你們的地上，使你們可以收藏五穀，新酒，和油
That I will give you the rain of your land in his due season, the first rain and the latter rain, that thou mayest gather in thy corn, and thy wine, and thine oil.

11:15    也必使你吃得飽足，並使田野為你的牲畜長草。
And I will send grass in thy fields for thy cattle, that thou mayest eat and be full.

11:16    你們要謹慎，免得心中受迷惑，就偏離正路，去事奉敬拜別神。
Take heed to yourselves, that your heart be not deceived, and ye turn aside, and serve other gods, and worship them;

11:17    耶和華的怒氣向你們發作，就使天閉塞不下雨，地也不出產，使你們在耶和華所賜給你們的美地上速速滅亡。
And then the LORD's wrath be kindled against you, and he shut up the heaven, that there be no rain, and that the land yield not her fruit; and lest ye perish quickly from off the good land which the LORD giveth you.

11:18    你們要將我這話存在心內，留在意中，系在手上為記號，戴在額上為經文。
Therefore shall ye lay up these my words in your heart and in your soul, and bind them for a sign upon your hand, that they may be as frontlets between your eyes.

11:19    也要教訓你們的兒女，無論坐在家裡，行在路上，躺下，起來，都要談論。
And ye shall teach them your children, speaking of them when thou sittest in thine house, and when thou walkest by the way, when thou liest down, and when thou risest up.

11:20    又要寫在房屋的門框上，並城門上，
And thou shalt write them upon the door posts of thine house, and upon thy gates:

11:21    使你們和你們子孫的日子在耶和華向你們列祖起誓，應許給他們的地上得以增多，如天覆地的日子那樣多。
That your days may be multiplied, and the days of your children, in the land which the LORD sware unto your fathers to give them, as the days of heaven upon the earth.

11:22    你們若留意謹守遵行我所吩咐這一切的誡命，愛耶和華你們的神，行他的道，專靠他，
For if ye shall diligently keep all these commandments which I command you, to do them, to love the LORD your God, to walk in all his ways, and to cleave unto him;

11:23    他必從你們面前趕出這一切國民，就是比你們更大更強的國民，你們也要得他們的地。
Then will the LORD drive out all these nations from before you, and ye shall possess greater nations and mightier than yourselves.

11:24    凡你們腳掌所踏之地都必歸你們。從曠野和黎巴嫩，並伯拉大河，直到西海，都要作你們的境界。
Every place whereon the soles of your feet shall tread shall be yours: from the wilderness and Lebanon, from the river, the river Euphrates, even unto the uttermost sea shall your coast be.

11:25    必無一人能在你們面前刪立得住。耶和華你們的神必照他所說的，使懼怕驚恐臨到你們所踏之地的居民。
There shall no man be able to stand before you: for the LORD your God shall lay the fear of you and the dread of you upon all the land that ye shall tread upon, as he hath said unto you.

11:26    看哪，我今日將祝福與咒詛的話都陳明在你們面前。
Behold, I set before you this day a blessing and a curse;

11:27    你們若聽從耶和華你們神的誡命，就是我今日所吩咐你們的，就必蒙福。
A blessing, if ye obey the commandments of the LORD your God, which I command you this day:

11:28    你們若不聽從耶和華你們神的誡命，偏離我今日所吩咐你們的道，去事奉你們素來所不認識的別神，就必受禍。
And a curse, if ye will not obey the commandments of the LORD your God, but turn aside out of the way which I command you this day, to go after other gods, which ye have not known.

11:29    及至耶和華你的神領你進入要去得為業的那地，你就要將祝福的話陳明在基利心山上，將咒詛的話陳明在以巴路山上。
And it shall come to pass, when the LORD thy God hath brought thee in unto the land whither thou goest to possess it, that thou shalt put the blessing upon mount Gerizim, and the curse upon mount Ebal.

11:30    這二山豈不是在約旦河那邊，日落之處，在住亞拉巴的迦南人之地與吉甲相對，靠近摩利橡樹嗎，
Are they not on the other side Jordan, by the way where the sun goeth down, in the land of the Canaanites, which dwell in the champaign over against Gilgal, beside the plains of Moreh?

11:31    你們要過約旦河，進去得耶和華你們神所賜你們為業之地，在那地居住。
For ye shall pass over Jordan to go in to possess the land which the LORD your God giveth you, and ye shall possess it, and dwell therein.

11:32    你們要謹守遵行我今日在你們面前所陳明的一切律例典章。
And ye shall observe to do all the statutes and judgments which I set before you this day.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


12:1    你們存活於世的日子，在耶和華你們列祖的神所賜你們為業的地上，要謹守遵行的律例典章乃是這些，
These are the statutes and judgments, which ye shall observe to do in the land, which the LORD God of thy fathers giveth thee to possess it, all the days that ye live upon the earth.

12:2    你們要將所趕出的國民事奉神的各地方，無論是在高山，在小山，在各青翠樹下，都毀壞了。
Ye shall utterly destroy all the places, wherein the nations which ye shall possess served their gods, upon the high mountains, and upon the hills, and under every green tree:

12:3    也要拆毀他們的祭壇，打碎他們的柱像，用火焚燒他們的木偶，砍下他們雕刻的神像，並將其名從那地方除滅。
And ye shall overthrow their altars, and break their pillars, and burn their groves with fire; and ye shall hew down the graven images of their gods, and destroy the names of them out of that place.

12:4    你們不可照他們那樣事奉耶和華你們的神。
Ye shall not do so unto the LORD your God.

12:5    但耶和華你們的神從你們各支派中選擇何處為立他名的居所，你們就當往那裡去求問，
But unto the place which the LORD your God shall choose out of all your tribes to put his name there, even unto his habitation shall ye seek, and thither thou shalt come:

12:6    將你們的燔祭，平安祭，十分取一之物，和手中的舉祭，並還願祭，甘心祭，以及牛群羊群中頭生的，都奉到那裡。
And thither ye shall bring your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, and your tithes, and heave offerings of your hand, and your vows, and your freewill offerings, and the firstlings of your herds and of your flocks:

12:7    在那裡，耶和華你們神的面前，你們和你們的家屬都可以吃，並且因你手所辦的一切事蒙耶和華你的神賜福，就都歡樂。
And there ye shall eat before the LORD your God, and ye shall rejoice in all that ye put your hand unto, ye and your households, wherein the LORD thy God hath blessed thee.

12:8    我們今日在這裡所行的是各人行自己眼中看為正的事，你們將來不可這樣行。
Ye shall not do after all the things that we do here this day, every man whatsoever is right in his own eyes.

12:9    因為你們還沒有到耶和華你神所賜你的安息地，所給你的產業。
For ye are not as yet come to the rest and to the inheritance, which the LORD your God giveth you.

12:10    但你們過了約旦河，得以住在耶和華你們神使你們承受為業之地，又使你們太平，不被四圍的一切仇敵擾亂，安然居住。
But when ye go over Jordan, and dwell in the land which the LORD your God giveth you to inherit, and when he giveth you rest from all your enemies round about, so that ye dwell in safety;

12:11    那時要將我所吩咐你們的燔祭，平安祭，十分取一之物，和手中的舉祭，並向耶和華許願獻的一切美祭，都奉到耶和華你們神所選擇要立為他名的居所。
Then there shall be a place which the LORD your God shall choose to cause his name to dwell there; thither shall ye bring all that I command you; your burnt offerings, and your sacrifices, your tithes, and the heave offering of your hand, and all your choice vows which ye vow unto the LORD:

12:12    你們和兒女，僕婢，並住在你們城裡無分無業的利未人，都要在耶和華你們的神面前歡樂。
And ye shall rejoice before the LORD your God, ye, and your sons, and your daughters, and your menservants, and your maidservants, and the Levite that is within your gates; forasmuch as he hath no part nor inheritance with you.

12:13    你要謹慎，不可在你所看中的各處獻燔祭。
Take heed to thyself that thou offer not thy burnt offerings in every place that thou seest:

12:14    惟獨耶和華從你那一支派中所選擇的地方，你就要在那裡獻燔祭，行我一切所吩咐你的。
But in the place which the LORD shall choose in one of thy tribes, there thou shalt offer thy burnt offerings, and there thou shalt do all that I command thee.

12:15    然而，在你各城裡都可以照耶和華你神所賜你的福分，隨心所欲宰牲吃肉。無論潔淨人不潔淨人都可以吃，就如吃羚羊與鹿一般。
Notwithstanding thou mayest kill and eat flesh in all thy gates, whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, according to the blessing of the LORD thy God which he hath given thee: the unclean and the clean may eat thereof, as of the roebuck, and as of the hart.

12:16    只是不可吃血，要倒在地上，如同倒水一樣。
Only ye shall not eat the blood; ye shall pour it upon the earth as water.

12:17    你的五穀，新酒，和油的十分之一，或是牛群羊群中頭生的，或是你許願獻的，甘心獻的，或是手中的舉祭，都不可在你城裡吃。
Thou mayest not eat within thy gates the tithe of thy corn, or of thy wine, or of thy oil, or the firstlings of thy herds or of thy flock, nor any of thy vows which thou vowest, nor thy freewill offerings, or heave offering of thine hand:

12:18    但要在耶和華你的神面前吃，在耶和華你神所耀選擇的地方，你和兒女，僕婢，並住在你城裡的利未人，都可以吃。也要因你手所辦的，在耶和華你神的面前歡樂。
But thou must eat them before the LORD thy God in the place which the LORD thy God shall choose, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite that is within thy gates: and thou shalt rejoice before the LORD thy God in all that thou puttest thine hands unto.

12:19    你要謹慎，在你所住的地方永不可丟棄利未人。
Take heed to thyself that thou forsake not the Levite as long as thou livest upon the earth.

12:20    耶和華你的神照他所應許擴張你境界的時候，你心裡想要吃肉，說，我要吃肉，就可以隨心所欲地吃肉。
When the LORD thy God shall enlarge thy border, as he hath promised thee, and thou shalt say, I will eat flesh, because thy soul longeth to eat flesh; thou mayest eat flesh, whatsoever thy soul lusteth after.

12:21    耶和華你神所選擇要立他名的地方若離你太遠，就可以照我所吩咐的，將耶和華賜給你的牛羊取些宰了，可以隨心所欲在你城裡吃。
If the place which the LORD thy God hath chosen to put his name there be too far from thee, then thou shalt kill of thy herd and of thy flock, which the LORD hath given thee, as I have commanded thee, and thou shalt eat in thy gates whatsoever thy soul lusteth after.

12:22    你吃那肉，要像吃羚羊與鹿一般。無論潔淨人不潔淨人都可以吃。
Even as the roebuck and the hart is eaten, so thou shalt eat them: the unclean and the clean shall eat of them alike.

12:23    只是你要心意堅定，不可吃血，因為血是生命。不可將血（原文作生命）與肉同吃。
Only be sure that thou eat not the blood: for the blood is the life; and thou mayest not eat the life with the flesh.

12:24    不可吃血，要倒在地上，如同倒水一樣。
Thou shalt not eat it; thou shalt pour it upon the earth as water.

12:25    不可吃血。這樣，你行耶和華眼中看為正的事，你和你的子孫就可以得福。
Thou shalt not eat it; that it may go well with thee, and with thy children after thee, when thou shalt do that which is right in the sight of the LORD.

12:26    只是你分別為聖的物和你的還願祭要奉到耶和華所選擇的地方去。
Only thy holy things which thou hast, and thy vows, thou shalt take, and go unto the place which the LORD shall choose:

12:27    你的燔祭，連肉帶血，都要獻在耶和華你神的壇上。平安祭的血要倒在耶和華你神的壇上。平安祭的肉，你自己可以吃。
And thou shalt offer thy burnt offerings, the flesh and the blood, upon the altar of the LORD thy God: and the blood of thy sacrifices shall be poured out upon the altar of the LORD thy God, and thou shalt eat the flesh.

12:28    你要謹守聽從我所吩咐的一切話，行耶和華你神眼中看為善，看為正的事。這樣，你和你的子孫就可以永遠享福。
Observe and hear all these words which I command thee, that it may go well with thee, and with thy children after thee for ever, when thou doest that which is good and right in the sight of the LORD thy God.

12:29    耶和華你神將你要去趕出的國民從你面前剪除，你得了他們的地居住，
When the LORD thy God shall cut off the nations from before thee, whither thou goest to possess them, and thou succeedest them, and dwellest in their land;

12:30    那時就要謹慎，不可在他們除滅之後隨從他們的惡俗，陷入網羅，也不可訪問他們的神說，這些國民怎樣事奉他們的神，我也要照樣行。
Take heed to thyself that thou be not snared by following them, after that they be destroyed from before thee; and that thou enquire not after their gods, saying, How did these nations serve their gods? even so will I do likewise.

12:31    你不可向耶和華你的神這樣行，因為他們向他們的神行了耶和華所憎嫌所恨惡的一切事，甚至將自己的兒女用火焚燒，獻與他們的神。
Thou shalt not do so unto the LORD thy God: for every abomination to the LORD, which he hateth, have they done unto their gods; for even their sons and their daughters they have burnt in the fire to their gods.

12:32    凡我所吩咐的，你們都要謹守遵行，不可加添，也不可刪減。
What thing soever I command you, observe to do it: thou shalt not add thereto, nor diminish from it.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


13:1    你們中間若有先知或是作夢的起來，向你顯個神蹟奇事，
If there arise among you a prophet, or a dreamer of dreams, and giveth thee a sign or a wonder,

13:2    對你說，我們去隨從你素來所不認識的別神，事奉它吧。他所顯的神蹟奇事雖有應驗，
And the sign or the wonder come to pass, whereof he spake unto thee, saying, Let us go after other gods, which thou hast not known, and let us serve them;

13:3    你也不可聽那先知或是那作夢之人的話。因為這是耶和華你們的神試驗你們，要知道你們是盡心儘性愛耶和華你們的神不是。
Thou shalt not hearken unto the words of that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams: for the LORD your God proveth you, to know whether ye love the LORD your God with all your heart and with all your soul.

13:4    你們要順從耶和華你們的神，敬畏他，謹守他的誡命，聽從他的話，事奉他，專靠他。
Ye shall walk after the LORD your God, and fear him, and keep his commandments, and obey his voice, and ye shall serve him, and cleave unto him.

13:5    那先知或是那作夢的既用言語叛逆那領你們出埃及地，救贖你脫離為奴之家的耶和華你們的神，要勾引你離開耶和華你神所吩咐你行的道，你便要將他治死。這樣，就把那惡從你們中間除掉。
And that prophet, or that dreamer of dreams, shall be put to death; because he hath spoken to turn you away from the LORD your God, which brought you out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed you out of the house of bondage, to thrust thee out of the way which the LORD thy God commanded thee to walk in. So shalt thou put the evil away from the midst of thee.

13:6    你的同胞弟兄，或是你的兒女，或是你懷中的妻，或是如同你性命的朋友，若暗中引誘你，說，我們不如去事奉你和你列祖素來所不認識的別神
If thy brother, the son of thy mother, or thy son, or thy daughter, or the wife of thy bosom, or thy friend, which is as thine own soul, entice thee secretly, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which thou hast not known, thou, nor thy fathers;

13:7    是你四圍列國的神。無論是離你近，離你遠，從地這邊到地那邊的神，
Namely, of the gods of the people which are round about you, nigh unto thee, or far off from thee, from the one end of the earth even unto the other end of the earth;

13:8    你不可依從他，也不可聽從他，眼不可顧惜他。你不可憐恤他，也不可遮庇他，
Thou shalt not consent unto him, nor hearken unto him; neither shall thine eye pity him, neither shalt thou spare, neither shalt thou conceal him:

13:9    總要殺他。你先下手，然後眾民也下手，將他治死。
But thou shalt surely kill him; thine hand shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterwards the hand of all the people.

13:10    要用石頭打死他，因為他想要勾引你離開那領你出埃及地為奴之家的耶和華你的神。
And thou shalt stone him with stones, that he die; because he hath sought to thrust thee away from the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage.

13:11    以色列眾人都要聽見害怕，就不敢在你們中間再行這樣的惡了。
And all Israel shall hear, and fear, and shall do no more any such wickedness as this is among you.

13:12    *
If thou shalt hear say in one of thy cities, which the LORD thy God hath given thee to dwell there, saying,

13:13    在耶和華你神所賜你居住的各城中，你若聽人說，有些匪類從你們中間的一座城出來勾引本城的居民，說，我們不如去事奉你們素來所不認識的別神。
Certain men, the children of Belial, are gone out from among you, and have withdrawn the inhabitants of their city, saying, Let us go and serve other gods, which ye have not known;

13:14    你就要探聽，查究，細細地訪問，果然是真，準有這可憎惡的事行在你們中間，
Then shalt thou enquire, and make search, and ask diligently; and, behold, if it be truth, and the thing certain, that such abomination is wrought among you;

13:15    你必要用刀殺那城裡的居民，把城裡所有的，連牲畜，都用刀殺盡。
Thou shalt surely smite the inhabitants of that city with the edge of the sword, destroying it utterly, and all that is therein, and the cattle thereof, with the edge of the sword.

13:16    你從那城裡所奪的財物都要堆積在街市上，用火將城和其內所奪的財物都在耶和華你神面前燒盡。那城就永為荒堆，不可再建造。
And thou shalt gather all the spoil of it into the midst of the street thereof, and shalt burn with fire the city, and all the spoil thereof every whit, for the LORD thy God: and it shall be an heap for ever; it shall not be built again.

13:17    *
And there shall cleave nought of the cursed thing to thine hand: that the LORD may turn from the fierceness of his anger, and shew thee mercy, and have compassion upon thee, and multiply thee, as he hath sworn unto thy fathers;

13:18    那當毀滅的物連一點都不可粘你的手。你要聽從耶和華你神的話，遵守我今日所吩咐你的一切誡命，行耶和華你神眼中看為正的事，耶和華就必轉意，不發烈怒，恩待你，憐恤你，照他向你列祖所起的誓使你人書增多。
When thou shalt hearken to the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep all his commandments which I command thee this day, to do that which is right in the eyes of the LORD thy God.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


14:1    你們是耶和華你們神的兒女。不可為死人用刀劃身，也不可將額上剃光。
Ye are the children of the LORD your God: ye shall not cut yourselves, nor make any baldness between your eyes for the dead.

14:2    因為你歸耶和華你神為聖潔的民，耶和華從地上的萬民中揀選你特作自己的子民。
For thou art an holy people unto the LORD thy God, and the LORD hath chosen thee to be a peculiar people unto himself, above all the nations that are upon the earth.

14:3    凡可憎的物都不可吃。
Thou shalt not eat any abominable thing.

14:4    可吃的牲畜就是牛，綿羊，山羊，
These are the beasts which ye shall eat: the ox, the sheep, and the goat,

14:5    鹿，羚羊，狍子，野山羊，麋鹿，黃羊，青羊。
The hart, and the roebuck, and the fallow deer, and the wild goat, and the pygarg, and the wild ox, and the chamois.

14:6    凡分蹄成為兩瓣又倒嚼的走獸，你們都可以吃。
And every beast that parteth the hoof, and cleaveth the cleft into two claws, and cheweth the cud among the beasts, that ye shall eat.

14:7    但那些倒嚼或是分蹄之中不可吃的乃是駱駝，兔子，沙番因為是倒嚼不分蹄，就與你們不潔淨。
Nevertheless these ye shall not eat of them that chew the cud, or of them that divide the cloven hoof; as the camel, and the hare, and the coney: for they chew the cud, but divide not the hoof; therefore they are unclean unto you.

14:8    豬因為是分蹄卻不倒嚼，就與你們不潔淨。這些獸的肉，你們不可吃，死的也不可摸。
And the swine, because it divideth the hoof, yet cheweth not the cud, it is unclean unto you: ye shall not eat of their flesh, nor touch their dead carcase.

14:9    水中可吃的乃是這些，凡有翅有鱗的都可以吃。
These ye shall eat of all that are in the waters: all that have fins and scales shall ye eat:

14:10    凡無翅無鱗的都不可吃，是與你們不潔淨。
And whatsoever hath not fins and scales ye may not eat; it is unclean unto you.

14:11    凡潔淨的鳥，你們都可以吃。
Of all clean birds ye shall eat.

14:12    不可吃的乃是雕，狗頭雕，紅頭雕，
But these are they of which ye shall not eat: the eagle, and the ossifrage, and the ospray,

14:13    ？？，小鷹，鷂鷹與其類，
And the glede, and the kite, and the vulture after his kind,

14:14    烏鴉與其類，
And every raven after his kind,

14:15    鴕鳥，夜鷹，魚鷹，鷹與其類，
And the owl, and the night hawk, and the cuckow, and the hawk after his kind,

14:16    ？？鳥，貓頭鷹，角鴟，
The little owl, and the great owl, and the swan,

14:17    鵜鶘，禿雕，鸕鶿，
And the pelican, and the gier eagle, and the cormorant,

14:18    鸛，鷺鷥與其類，戴？？與蝙蝠。
And the stork, and the heron after her kind, and the lapwing, and the bat.

14:19    凡有翅膀爬行的物是與你們不潔淨，都不可吃。
And every creeping thing that flieth is unclean unto you: they shall not be eaten.

14:20    凡潔淨的鳥，你們都可以吃。
But of all clean fowls ye may eat.

14:21    凡自死的，你們都不可吃，可以給你城裡寄居的吃，或賣與外人吃，因為你是歸耶和華你神為聖潔的民。不可用山羊羔母的奶煮山羊羔。
Ye shall not eat of anything that dieth of itself: thou shalt give it unto the stranger that is in thy gates, that he may eat it; or thou mayest sell it unto an alien: for thou art an holy people unto the LORD thy God. Thou shalt not seethe a kid in his mother's milk.

14:22    你要把你撒種所產的，就是你田地每年所出的，十分取一分。
Thou shalt truly tithe all the increase of thy seed, that the field bringeth forth year by year.

14:23    又要把你的五穀，新酒，和油的十分之一，並牛群羊群中頭生的，吃在耶和華你神面前，就是他所選擇要立為他名的居所。這樣，你可以學習時常敬畏耶和華你的神。
And thou shalt eat before the LORD thy God, in the place which he shall choose to place his name there, the tithe of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the firstlings of thy herds and of thy flocks; that thou mayest learn to fear the LORD thy God always.

14:24    當耶和華你神賜福與你的時候，耶和華你神所選擇要立為他名的地方若離你太遠，那路也太長，使你不能把這物帶到那裡去，
And if the way be too long for thee, so that thou art not able to carry it; or if the place be too far from thee, which the LORD thy God shall choose to set his name there, when the LORD thy God hath blessed thee:

14:25    你就可以換成銀子，將銀子包起來，拿在手中，往耶和華你神所要選擇的地方去。
Then shalt thou turn it into money, and bind up the money in thine hand, and shalt go unto the place which the LORD thy God shall choose:

14:26    你用這銀子，隨心所欲，或買牛羊，或買清酒濃酒，凡你心所想的都可以買。你和你的家屬在耶和華你神的面前吃喝快樂。
And thou shalt bestow that money for whatsoever thy soul lusteth after, for oxen, or for sheep, or for wine, or for strong drink, or for whatsoever thy soul desireth: and thou shalt eat there before the LORD thy God, and thou shalt rejoice, thou, and thine household,

14:27    住在你城裡的利未人，你不可丟棄他，因為他在你們中間無分無業。
And the Levite that is within thy gates; thou shalt not forsake him; for he hath no part nor inheritance with thee.

14:28    每逢三年的末一年，你要將本年的土產十分之一都取出來，積存在你的城中。
At the end of three years thou shalt bring forth all the tithe of thine increase the same year, and shalt lay it up within thy gates:

14:29    在你城裡無分無業的利未人，和你城裡寄居的，並孤兒寡婦，都可以來，吃得飽足。這樣，耶和華你的神必在你手裡所辦的一切事上賜福與你。
And the Levite, (because he hath no part nor inheritance with thee,) and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, which are within thy gates, shall come, and shall eat and be satisfied; that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hand which thou doest.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


15:1    每逢七年末一年，你要施行豁免。
At the end of every seven years thou shalt make a release.

15:2    豁免的定例乃是這樣，凡債主要把所借給鄰舍的豁免了。不可向鄰舍和弟兄追討，因為耶和華的豁免年已經宣告了。
And this is the manner of the release: Every creditor that lendeth ought unto his neighbour shall release it; he shall not exact it of his neighbour, or of his brother; because it is called the LORD's release.

15:3    若借給外邦人，你可以向他追討。但借給你弟兄，無論是什麼，你要鬆手豁免了。
Of a foreigner thou mayest exact it again: but that which is thine with thy brother thine hand shall release;

15:4    *
Save when there shall be no poor among you; for the LORD shall greatly bless thee in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it:

15:5    你若留意聽從耶和華你神的話，謹守遵行我今日所吩咐你這一切的命令，就必在你們中間沒有窮人了（在耶和華你神所賜你為業的地上，耶和華必大大賜福與你）。
Only if thou carefully hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all these commandments which I command thee this day.

15:6    因為耶和華你的神必照他所應許你的賜福與你。你必借給許多國民，卻不致向他們借貸。你必管轄許多國民，他們卻不能管轄你。
For the LORD thy God blesseth thee, as he promised thee: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, but thou shalt not borrow; and thou shalt reign over many nations, but they shall not reign over thee.

15:7    在耶和華你神所賜你的地上，無論哪一座城裡，你弟兄中若有一個窮人，你不可忍著心，？？著手不幫補你窮乏的弟兄。
If there be among you a poor man of one of thy brethren within any of thy gates in thy land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not harden thine heart, nor shut thine hand from thy poor brother:

15:8    總要向他鬆開手，照他所缺乏的借給他，補他的不足。
But thou shalt open thine hand wide unto him, and shalt surely lend him sufficient for his need, in that which he wanteth.

15:9    你要謹慎，不可心裡起惡念，說，第七年的豁免年快到了，你便惡眼看你窮乏的弟兄，什麼都不給他，以致他因你求告耶和華，罪便歸於你了。
Beware that there be not a thought in thy wicked heart, saying, The seventh year, the year of release, is at hand; and thine eye be evil against thy poor brother, and thou givest him nought; and he cry unto the LORD against thee, and it be sin unto thee.

15:10    你總要給他，給他的時候心裡不可愁煩。因耶和華你的神必在你這一切所行的，並你手裡所辦的事上，賜福與你。
Thou shalt surely give him, and thine heart shall not be grieved when thou givest unto him: because that for this thing the LORD thy God shall bless thee in all thy works, and in all that thou puttest thine hand unto.

15:11    原來那地上的窮人永不斷絕。所以我吩咐你說，總要向你地上困苦窮乏的弟兄鬆開手。
For the poor shall never cease out of the land: therefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt open thine hand wide unto thy brother, to thy poor, and to thy needy, in thy land.

15:12    你弟兄中，若有一個希伯來男人或希伯來女人被賣給你，服事你六年，到第七年就要任他自由出去。
And if thy brother, an Hebrew man, or an Hebrew woman, be sold unto thee, and serve thee six years; then in the seventh year thou shalt let him go free from thee.

15:13    你任他自由的時候，不可使他空手而去，
And when thou sendest him out free from thee, thou shalt not let him go away empty:

15:14    要從你羊群，禾場，酒榨之中多多地給他。耶和華你的神怎樣賜福與你，你也要照樣給他。
Thou shalt furnish him liberally out of thy flock, and out of thy floor, and out of thy winepress: of that wherewith the LORD thy God hath blessed thee thou shalt give unto him.

15:15    要記念你在埃及地作過奴僕，耶和華你的神將你救贖。因此，我今日吩咐你這件事。
And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt, and the LORD thy God redeemed thee: therefore I command thee this thing to day.

15:16    他若對你說，我不願意離開你，是因他愛你和你的家，且因在你那裡很好，
And it shall be, if he say unto thee, I will not go away from thee; because he loveth thee and thine house, because he is well with thee;

15:17    你就要拿錐子將他的耳朵在門上刺透，他便永為你的奴僕了。你待婢女也要這樣。
Then thou shalt take an aul, and thrust it through his ear unto the door, and he shall be thy servant for ever. And also unto thy maidservant thou shalt do likewise.

15:18    你任他自由的時候，不可以為難事，因他服事你六年，較比僱工的工價多加一倍了。耶和華你的神就必在你所作的一切事上賜福與你。
It shall not seem hard unto thee, when thou sendest him away free from thee; for he hath been worth a double hired servant to thee, in serving thee six years: and the LORD thy God shall bless thee in all that thou doest.

15:19    你牛群羊群中頭生的，凡是公的，都要分別為聖，歸耶和華你的神。牛群中頭生的，不可用它耕地。羊群中頭生的，不可剪毛。
All the firstling males that come of thy herd and of thy flock thou shalt sanctify unto the LORD thy God: thou shalt do no work with the firstling of thy bullock, nor shear the firstling of thy sheep.

15:20    這頭生的，你和你的家屬，每年要在耶和華所選擇的地方，在耶和華你神面前吃。
Thou shalt eat it before the LORD thy God year by year in the place which the LORD shall choose, thou and thy household.

15:21    這頭生的若有什麼殘疾，就如瘸腿的，瞎眼的，無論有什麼惡殘疾，都不可獻給耶和華你的神。
And if there be any blemish therein, as if it be lame, or blind, or have any ill blemish, thou shalt not sacrifice it unto the LORD thy God.

15:22    可以在你城裡吃。潔淨人與不潔淨人都可以吃，就如吃羚羊與鹿一般。
Thou shalt eat it within thy gates: the unclean and the clean person shall eat it alike, as the roebuck, and as the hart.

15:23    只是不可吃它的血。要倒在地上，如同倒水一樣。
Only thou shalt not eat the blood thereof; thou shalt pour it upon the ground as water.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


16:1    你要注意亞筆月，向耶和華你的神守逾越節，因為耶和華你的神在亞筆月夜間領你出埃及。
Observe the month of Abib, and keep the passover unto the LORD thy God: for in the month of Abib the LORD thy God brought thee forth out of Egypt by night.

16:2    你當在耶和華所選擇要立為他名的居所，從牛群羊群中，將逾越節的祭牲獻給耶和華你的神。
Thou shalt therefore sacrifice the passover unto the LORD thy God, of the flock and the herd, in the place which the LORD shall choose to place his name there.

16:3    你吃這祭牲，不可吃有酵的餅。七日之內要吃無酵餅，就是困苦餅。（你本是急忙出了埃及地）要叫你一生一世記念你從埃及地出來的日子。
Thou shalt eat no leavened bread with it; seven days shalt thou eat unleavened bread therewith, even the bread of affliction; for thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt in haste: that thou mayest remember the day when thou camest forth out of the land of Egypt all the days of thy life.

16:4    在你四境之內，七日不可見面酵，頭一日晚上所獻的肉，一點不可留到早晨。
And there shall be no leavened bread seen with thee in all thy coast seven days; neither shall there any thing of the flesh, which thou sacrificedst the first day at even, remain all night until the morning.

16:5    在耶和華你神所賜的各城中，你不可獻逾越節的祭。
Thou mayest not sacrifice the passover within any of thy gates, which the LORD thy God giveth thee:

16:6    只當在耶和華你神所選擇要立為他名的居所，晚上日落的時候，乃是你出埃及的時候，獻逾越節的祭。
But at the place which the LORD thy God shall choose to place his name in, there thou shalt sacrifice the passover at even, at the going down of the sun, at the season that thou camest forth out of Egypt.

16:7    當在耶和華你神所選擇的地方把肉烤了吃（烤或作煮），次日早晨就回到你的帳棚去。
And thou shalt roast and eat it in the place which the LORD thy God shall choose: and thou shalt turn in the morning, and go unto thy tents.

16:8    你要吃無酵餅六日，第七日要向耶和華你的神守嚴肅會，不可作工。
Six days thou shalt eat unleavened bread: and on the seventh day shall be a solemn assembly to the LORD thy God: thou shalt do no work therein.

16:9    你要計算七七日，從你開鐮收割禾稼時算起，共計七七日。
Seven weeks shalt thou number unto thee: begin to number the seven weeks from such time as thou beginnest to put the sickle to the corn.

16:10    你要照耶和華你神所賜你的福，手裡拿著甘心祭，獻在耶和華你的神面前，守七七節。
And thou shalt keep the feast of weeks unto the LORD thy God with a tribute of a freewill offering of thine hand, which thou shalt give unto the LORD thy God, according as the LORD thy God hath blessed thee:

16:11    你和你兒女，僕婢，並住在你城裡的利未人，以及在你們中間寄居的與孤兒寡婦，都要在耶和華你神所選擇立為他名的居所，在耶和華你的神面前歡樂。
And thou shalt rejoice before the LORD thy God, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite that is within thy gates, and the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are among you, in the place which the LORD thy God hath chosen to place his name there.

16:12    你也要記念你在埃及作過奴僕。你要謹守遵行這些律例。
And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt: and thou shalt observe and do these statutes.

16:13    你把禾場的谷，酒榨的酒收藏以後，就要守住棚節七日。
Thou shalt observe the feast of tabernacles seven days, after that thou hast gathered in thy corn and thy wine:

16:14    守節的時候，你和你兒女，僕婢，並住在你城裡的利未人，以及寄居的與孤兒寡婦，都要歡樂。
And thou shalt rejoice in thy feast, thou, and thy son, and thy daughter, and thy manservant, and thy maidservant, and the Levite, the stranger, and the fatherless, and the widow, that are within thy gates.

16:15    在耶和華所選擇的地方，你當向耶和華你的神守節七日。因為耶和華你神在你一切的土產上和你手裡所辦的事上要賜福與你，你就非常地歡樂。
Seven days shalt thou keep a solemn feast unto the LORD thy God in the place which the LORD shall choose: because the LORD thy God shall bless thee in all thine increase, and in all the works of thine hands, therefore thou shalt surely rejoice.

16:16    你一切的男丁要在除酵節，七七節，住棚節，一年三次，在耶和華你神所選擇的地方朝見他，卻不可空手朝見。
Three times in a year shall all thy males appear before the LORD thy God in the place which he shall choose; in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles: and they shall not appear before the LORD empty:

16:17    各人要按自己的力量，照耶和華你神所賜的福分，奉獻禮物。
Every man shall give as he is able, according to the blessing of the LORD thy God which he hath given thee.

16:18    你要在耶和華你神所賜的各城裡，按著各支派設立審判官和官長。他們必按公義的審判判斷百姓。
Judges and officers shalt thou make thee in all thy gates, which the LORD thy God giveth thee, throughout thy tribes: and they shall judge the people with just judgment.

16:19    不可屈枉正直。不可看人的外貌。也不可受賄賂。因為賄賂能叫智慧人的眼變瞎了，又能顛倒義人的話。
Thou shalt not wrest judgment; thou shalt not respect persons, neither take a gift: for a gift doth blind the eyes of the wise, and pervert the words of the righteous.

16:20    你要追求至公至義，好叫你存活，承受耶和華你神所賜你的地。
That which is altogether just shalt thou follow, that thou mayest live, and inherit the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

16:21    你為耶和華你的神築壇，不可在壇旁栽什麼樹木作為木偶。
Thou shalt not plant thee a grove of any trees near unto the altar of the LORD thy God, which thou shalt make thee.

16:22    也不可為自己設立柱像。這是耶和華你神所恨惡的。
Neither shalt thou set thee up any image; which the LORD thy God hateth.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


17:1    凡有殘疾，或有什麼惡病的牛羊，你都不可獻給耶和華你的神，因為這是耶和華你神所憎惡的。
Thou shalt not sacrifice unto the LORD thy God any bullock, or sheep, wherein is blemish, or any evilfavouredness: for that is an abomination unto the LORD thy God.

17:2    在你們中間，在耶和華你神所賜你的諸城中，無論哪座城裡，若有人，或男或女，行耶和華你神眼中看為惡的事，違背了他的約，
If there be found among you, within any of thy gates which the LORD thy God giveth thee, man or woman, that hath wrought wickedness in the sight of the LORD thy God, in transgressing his covenant,

17:3    去事奉敬拜別神，或拜日頭，或拜月亮，或拜天象，是主不曾吩咐的。
And hath gone and served other gods, and worshipped them, either the sun, or moon, or any of the host of heaven, which I have not commanded;

17:4    有人告訴你，你也聽見了，就要細細地探聽，果然是真，準有這可憎惡的事行在以色列中，
And it be told thee, and thou hast heard of it, and enquired diligently, and, behold, it be true, and the thing certain, that such abomination is wrought in Israel:

17:5    你就要將行這惡事的男人或女人拉到城門外，用石頭將他打死。
Then shalt thou bring forth that man or that woman, which have committed that wicked thing, unto thy gates, even that man or that woman, and shalt stone them with stones, till they die.

17:6    要憑兩三個人的口作見證將那當死的人治死。不可憑一個人的口作見證將他治死。
At the mouth of two witnesses, or three witnesses, shall he that is worthy of death be put to death; but at the mouth of one witness he shall not be put to death.

17:7    見證人要先下手，然後眾民也下手將他治死。這樣，就把那惡從你們中間除掉。
The hands of the witnesses shall be first upon him to put him to death, and afterward the hands of all the people. So thou shalt put the evil away from among you.

17:8    你城中若起了爭訟的事，或因流血，或因爭競，或因毆打，是你難斷的案件，你就當起來，往耶和華你神所選擇的地方
If there arise a matter too hard for thee in judgment, between blood and blood, between plea and plea, and between stroke and stroke, being matters of controversy within thy gates: then shalt thou arise, and get thee up into the place which the LORD thy God shall choose;

17:9    去見祭司利未人，並當時的審判官，求問他們，他們必將判語指示你。
And thou shalt come unto the priests the Levites, and unto the judge that shall be in those days, and enquire; and they shall shew thee the sentence of judgment:

17:10    他們在耶和華所選擇的地方指示你的判語，你必照著他們所指教你的一切話謹守遵行。
And thou shalt do according to the sentence, which they of that place which the LORD shall choose shall shew thee; and thou shalt observe to do according to all that they inform thee:

17:11    要按他們所指教你的律法，照他們所斷定的去行。他們所指示你的判語，你不可偏離左右。
According to the sentence of the law which they shall teach thee, and according to the judgment which they shall tell thee, thou shalt do: thou shalt not decline from the sentence which they shall shew thee, to the right hand, nor to the left.

17:12    若有人擅敢不聽從那侍立在耶和華你神面前的祭司，或不聽從審判官，那人就必治死。這樣，便將那惡從以色列中除掉。
And the man that will do presumptuously, and will not hearken unto the priest that standeth to minister there before the LORD thy God, or unto the judge, even that man shall die: and thou shalt put away the evil from Israel.

17:13    眾百姓都要聽見害怕，不再擅敢行事。
And all the people shall hear, and fear, and do no more presumptuously.

17:14    到了耶和華你神所賜你的地，得了那地居住的時候，若說，我要立王治理我，像四圍的國一樣。
When thou art come unto the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, and shalt possess it, and shalt dwell therein, and shalt say, I will set a king over me, like as all the nations that are about me;

17:15    你總要立耶和華你神所揀選的人為王。必從你弟兄中立一人。不可立你弟兄以外的人為王。
Thou shalt in any wise set him king over thee, whom the LORD thy God shall choose: one from among thy brethren shalt thou set king over thee: thou mayest not set a stranger over thee, which is not thy brother.

17:16    只是王不可為自己加添馬匹，也不可使百姓回埃及去，為要加添他的馬匹，因耶和華曾吩咐你們說，不可再回那條路去。
But he shall not multiply horses to himself, nor cause the people to return to Egypt, to the end that he should multiply horses: forasmuch as the LORD hath said unto you, Ye shall henceforth return no more that way.

17:17    他也不可為自己多立妃嬪，恐怕他的心偏邪。也不可為自己多積金銀。
Neither shall he multiply wives to himself, that his heart turn not away: neither shall he greatly multiply to himself silver and gold.

17:18    他登了國位，就要將祭司利未人面前的這律法書，為自己抄錄一本，
And it shall be, when he sitteth upon the throne of his kingdom, that he shall write him a copy of this law in a book out of that which is before the priests the Levites:

17:19    存在他那裡，要平生誦讀，好學習敬畏耶和華他的神，謹守遵行這律法書上的一切言語和這些律例，
And it shall be with him, and he shall read therein all the days of his life: that he may learn to fear the LORD his God, to keep all the words of this law and these statutes, to do them:

17:20    免得他向弟兄心高氣傲，偏左偏右，離了這誡命。這樣，他和他的子孫便可在以色列中，在國位上年長日久。
That his heart be not lifted up above his brethren, and that he turn not aside from the commandment, to the right hand, or to the left: to the end that he may prolong his days in his kingdom, he, and his children, in the midst of Israel.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


18:1    祭司利未人和利未全支派必在以色列中無分無業。他們所吃用的就是獻給耶和華的火祭和一切所捐的。
The priests the Levites, and all the tribe of Levi, shall have no part nor inheritance with Israel: they shall eat the offerings of the LORD made by fire, and his inheritance.

18:2    他們在弟兄中必沒有產業。耶和華是他們的產業，正如耶和華所應許他們的。
Therefore shall they have no inheritance among their brethren: the LORD is their inheritance, as he hath said unto them.

18:3    祭司從百姓所當得的分乃是這樣，凡獻牛或羊為祭的，要把前腿和兩腮並脾胃給祭司。
And this shall be the priest's due from the people, from them that offer a sacrifice, whether it be ox or sheep; and they shall give unto the priest the shoulder, and the two cheeks, and the maw.

18:4    初收的五穀，新酒和油，並初剪的羊毛，也要給他。
The firstfruit also of thy corn, of thy wine, and of thine oil, and the first of the fleece of thy sheep, shalt thou give him.

18:5    因為耶和華你的神從你各支派中將他揀選出來，使他和他子孫永遠奉耶和華的名侍立，事奉。
For the LORD thy God hath chosen him out of all thy tribes, to stand to minister in the name of the LORD, him and his sons for ever.

18:6    利未人無論寄居在以色列中的哪一座城，若從那裡出來，一心願意到耶和華所選擇的地方，
And if a Levite come from any of thy gates out of all Israel, where he sojourned, and come with all the desire of his mind unto the place which the LORD shall choose;

18:7    就要奉耶和華他神的名事奉，像他眾弟兄利未人侍立在耶和華面前事奉一樣。
Then he shall minister in the name of the LORD his God, as all his brethren the Levites do, which stand there before the LORD.

18:8    除了他賣祖父產業所得的以外，還要得一分祭物與他們同吃。
They shall have like portions to eat, beside that which cometh of the sale of his patrimony.

18:9    你到了耶和華你神所賜之地，那些國民所行可憎惡的事，你不可學著行。
When thou art come into the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, thou shalt not learn to do after the abominations of those nations.

18:10    你們中間不可有人使兒女經火，也不可有占卜的，觀兆的，用法術的，行邪術的，
There shall not be found among you any one that maketh his son or his daughter to pass through the fire, or that useth divination, or an observer of times, or an enchanter, or a witch.

18:11    用迷術的，交鬼的，行巫術的，過陰的。
Or a charmer, or a consulter with familiar spirits, or a wizard, or a necromancer.



18:12    凡行這些事的都為耶和華所憎惡。因那些國民行這可憎惡的事，所以耶和華你的神將他們從你面前趕出。
For all that do these things are an abomination unto the LORD: and because of these abominations the LORD thy God doth drive them out from before thee.

18:13    你要在耶和華你的神面前作完全人。
Thou shalt be perfect with the LORD thy God.

18:14    因你所要趕出的那些國民都聽信觀兆的和占卜的，至於你，耶和華你的神從來不許你這樣行。
For these nations, which thou shalt possess, hearkened unto observers of times, and unto diviners: but as for thee, the LORD thy God hath not suffered thee so to do.

18:15    耶和華你的神要從你們弟兄中間給你興起一位先知，像我，你們要聽從他。
The LORD thy God will raise up unto thee a Prophet from the midst of thee, of thy brethren, like unto me; unto him ye shall hearken;

18:16    正如你在何烈山大會的日子求耶和華你神一切的話，說，求你不再叫我聽見耶和華我神的聲音，也不再叫我看見這大火，免得我死亡。
According to all that thou desiredst of the LORD thy God in Horeb in the day of the assembly, saying, Let me not hear again the voice of the LORD my God, neither let me see this great fire any more, that I die not.

18:17    耶和華就對我說，他們所說的是。
And the LORD said unto me, They have well spoken that which they have spoken.

18:18    我必在他們弟兄中間給他們興起一位先知，像你。我要將當說的話傳給他。他要將我一切所吩咐的都傳給他們。
I will raise them up a Prophet from among their brethren, like unto thee, and will put my words in his mouth; and he shall speak unto them all that I shall command him.

18:19    誰不聽他奉我名所說的話，我必討誰的罪。
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever will not hearken unto my words which he shall speak in my name, I will require it of him.

18:20    若有先知擅敢託我的名說我所未曾吩咐他說的話，或是奉別神的名說話，那先知就必治死。
But the prophet, which shall presume to speak a word in my name, which I have not commanded him to speak, or that shall speak in the name of other gods, even that prophet shall die.

18:21    你心裡若說，耶和華所未曾吩咐的話，我們怎能知道呢，
And if thou say in thine heart, How shall we know the word which the LORD hath not spoken?

18:22    先知託耶和華的名說話，所說的若不成就，也無效驗，這就是耶和華所未曾吩咐的，是那先知擅自說的，你不要怕他。
When a prophet speaketh in the name of the LORD, if the thing follow not, nor come to pass, that is the thing which the LORD hath not spoken, but the prophet hath spoken it presumptuously: thou shalt not be afraid of him.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


19:1    耶和華你神將列國之民剪除的時候，耶和華你神也將他們的地賜給你，你接著住他們的城邑並他們的房屋，
When the LORD thy God hath cut off the nations, whose land the LORD thy God giveth thee, and thou succeedest them, and dwellest in their cities, and in their houses;

19:2    就要在耶和華你神所賜你為業的地上分定三座城。
Thou shalt separate three cities for thee in the midst of thy land, which the LORD thy God giveth thee to possess it.

19:3    要將耶和華你神使你承受為業的地分為三段。又要預備道路，使誤殺人的，都可以逃到那裡去。
Thou shalt prepare thee a way, and divide the coasts of thy land, which the LORD thy God giveth thee to inherit, into three parts, that every slayer may flee thither.

19:4    誤殺人的逃到那裡可以存活，定例乃是這樣，凡素無仇恨，無心殺了人的，
And this is the case of the slayer, which shall flee thither, that he may live: Whoso killeth his neighbour ignorantly, whom he hated not in time past;

19:5    就如人與鄰舍同入樹林砍伐樹木，手拿斧子一砍，本想砍下樹木，不料，斧頭脫了把，飛落在鄰舍身上，以致於死，這人逃到那些城的一座城，就可以存活，
As when a man goeth into the wood with his neighbour to hew wood, and his hand fetcheth a stroke with the axe to cut down the tree, and the head slippeth from the helve, and lighteth upon his neighbour, that he die; he shall flee unto one of those cities, and live:

19:6    免得報血仇的，心中火熱追趕他，因路遠就追上，將他殺死。其實他不該死，因為他與被殺的素無仇恨。
Lest the avenger of the blood pursue the slayer, while his heart is hot, and overtake him, because the way is long, and slay him; whereas he was not worthy of death, inasmuch as he hated him not in time past.

19:7    所以我吩咐你說，要分定三座城。
Wherefore I command thee, saying, Thou shalt separate three cities for thee.

19:8    耶和華你神若照他向你列祖所起的誓擴張你的境界，將所應許賜你列祖的地全然給你，
And if the LORD thy God enlarge thy coast, as he hath sworn unto thy fathers, and give thee all the land which he promised to give unto thy fathers;

19:9    你若謹守遵行我今日所吩咐的這一切誡命，愛耶和華你的神，常常遵行他的道，就要在這三座城之外，再添三座城，
If thou shalt keep all these commandments to do them, which I command thee this day, to love the LORD thy God, and to walk ever in his ways; then shalt thou add three cities more for thee, beside these three:

19:10    免得無辜之人的血流在耶和華你神所賜你為業的地上，流血的罪就歸於你。
That innocent blood be not shed in thy land, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and so blood be upon thee.

19:11    若有人恨他的鄰舍，埋伏著起來擊殺他，以致於死，便逃到這些城的一座城，
But if any man hate his neighbour, and lie in wait for him, and rise up against him, and smite him mortally that he die, and fleeth into one of these cities:

19:12    本城的長老就要打發人去，從那裡帶出他來，交在報血仇的手中，將他治死。
Then the elders of his city shall send and fetch him thence, and deliver him into the hand of the avenger of blood, that he may die.

19:13    你眼不可顧惜他，卻要從以色列中除掉流無辜血的罪，使你可以得福。
Thine eye shall not pity him, but thou shalt put away the guilt of innocent blood from Israel, that it may go well with thee.

19:14    在耶和華你神所賜你承受為業之地，不可挪移你鄰舍的地界，那是先人所定的。
Thou shalt not remove thy neighbour's landmark, which they of old time have set in thine inheritance, which thou shalt inherit in the land that the LORD thy God giveth thee to possess it.

19:15    人無論犯什麼罪，作什麼惡，不可憑一個人的口作見證，總要憑兩三個人的口作見證才可定案。
One witness shall not rise up against a man for any iniquity, or for any sin, in any sin that he sinneth: at the mouth of two witnesses, or at the mouth of three witnesses, shall the matter be established.

19:16    若有凶惡的見證人起來，見證某人作惡，
If a false witness rise up against any man to testify against him that which is wrong;

19:17    這兩個爭訟的人就要站在耶和華面前，和當時的祭司，並審判官面前，
Then both the men, between whom the controversy is, shall stand before the LORD, before the priests and the judges, which shall be in those days;

19:18    審判官要細細地查究，若見證人果然是作假見證的，以假見證陷害弟兄，
And the judges shall make diligent inquisition: and, behold, if the witness be a false witness, and hath testified falsely against his brother;

19:19    你們就要待他如同他想要待的弟兄。這樣，就把那惡從你們中間除掉。
Then shall ye do unto him, as he had thought to have done unto his brother: so shalt thou put the evil away from among you.

19:20    別人聽見都要害怕，就不敢在你們中間再行這樣的惡了。
And those which remain shall hear, and fear, and shall henceforth commit no more any such evil among you.

19:21    你眼不可顧惜，要以命償命，以眼還眼，以牙還牙，以手還手，以腳還腳。
And thine eye shall not pity; but life shall go for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand, foot for foot.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


20:1    你出去與仇敵爭戰的時候，看見馬匹，車輛，並有比你多的人民，不要怕他們，因為領你出埃及地的耶和華你神與你同在。
When thou goest out to battle against thine enemies, and seest horses, and chariots, and a people more than thou, be not afraid of them: for the LORD thy God is with thee, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

20:2    你們將要上陣的時候，祭司要到百姓面前宣告，
And it shall be, when ye are come nigh unto the battle, that the priest shall approach and speak unto the people,

20:3    說，以色列人哪，你們當聽，你們今日將要與仇敵爭戰，不要膽怯，不要懼怕戰兢，也不要因他們驚恐。
And shall say unto them, Hear, O Israel, ye approach this day unto battle against your enemies: let not your hearts faint, fear not, and do not tremble, neither be ye terrified because of them;

20:4    因為耶和華你們的神與你們同去，要為你們與仇敵爭戰，拯救你們。
For the LORD your God is he that goeth with you, to fight for you against your enemies, to save you.

20:5    官長也要對百姓宣告說，誰建造房屋，尚未奉獻，他可以回家去，恐怕他陣亡，別人去奉獻。
And the officers shall speak unto the people, saying, What man is there that hath built a new house, and hath not dedicated it? let him go and return to his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man dedicate it.

20:6    誰種葡萄園，尚未用所結的果子，他可以回家去，恐怕他陣亡，別人去用。
And what man is he that hath planted a vineyard, and hath not yet eaten of it? let him also go and return unto his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man eat of it.

20:7    誰聘定了妻，尚未迎娶，他可以回家去，恐怕他陣亡，別人去娶。
And what man is there that hath betrothed a wife, and hath not taken her? let him go and return unto his house, lest he die in the battle, and another man take her.

20:8    官長又要對百姓宣告說，誰懼怕膽怯，他可以回家去，恐怕他弟兄的心消化，和他一樣。
And the officers shall speak further unto the people, and they shall say, What man is there that is fearful and fainthearted? let him go and return unto his house, lest his brethren's heart faint as well as his heart.

20:9    官長對百姓宣告完了，就當派軍長率領他們。
And it shall be, when the officers have made an end of speaking unto the people, that they shall make captains of the armies to lead the people.

20:10    你臨近一座城，要攻打的時候，先要對城裡的民宣告和睦的話。
When thou comest nigh unto a city to fight against it, then proclaim peace unto it.

20:11    他們若以和睦的話回答你，給你開了城，城裡所有的人都要給你效勞，服事你。
And it shall be, if it make thee answer of peace, and open unto thee, then it shall be, that all the people that is found therein shall be tributaries unto thee, and they shall serve thee.

20:12    若不肯與你和好，反要與你打仗，你就要圍困那城。
And if it will make no peace with thee, but will make war against thee, then thou shalt besiege it:

20:13    耶和華你的神把城交付你手，你就要用刀殺盡這城的男丁。
And when the LORD thy God hath delivered it into thine hands, thou shalt smite every male thereof with the edge of the sword:

20:14    惟有婦女，孩子，牲畜，和城內一切的財物，你可以取為自己的掠物。耶和華你神把你仇敵的財物賜給你，你可以吃用。
But the women, and the little ones, and the cattle, and all that is in the city, even all the spoil thereof, shalt thou take unto thyself; and thou shalt eat the spoil of thine enemies, which the LORD thy God hath given thee.

20:15    離你甚遠的各城，不是這些國民的城，你都要這樣待他。
Thus shalt thou do unto all the cities which are very far off from thee, which are not of the cities of these nations.

20:16    但這些國民的城，耶和華你神既賜你為業，其中凡有氣息的，一個不可存留。
But of the cities of these people, which the LORD thy God doth give thee for an inheritance, thou shalt save alive nothing that breatheth:

20:17    只要照耶和華你神所吩咐的將這赫人，亞摩利人，迦南人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人都滅絕淨盡，
But thou shalt utterly destroy them; namely, the Hittites, and the Amorites, the Canaanites, and the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites; as the LORD thy God hath commanded thee:

20:18    免得他們教導你們學習一切可憎惡的事，就是他們向自己神所行的，以致你們得罪耶和華你們的神。
That they teach you not to do after all their abominations, which they have done unto their gods; so should ye sin against the LORD your God.

20:19    你若許久圍困，攻打所要取的一座城，就不可舉斧子砍壞樹木。因為你可以吃那樹上的果子，不可砍伐。田間的樹木豈是人，叫你糟蹋嗎，
When thou shalt besiege a city a long time, in making war against it to take it, thou shalt not destroy the trees thereof by forcing an axe against them: for thou mayest eat of them, and thou shalt not cut them down (for the tree of the field is man's life) to employ them in the siege:

20:20    惟獨你所知道不是結果子的樹木可以毀壞，砍伐，用以修築營壘，攻擊那與你打仗的城，直到攻塌了。
Only the trees which thou knowest that they be not trees for meat, thou shalt destroy and cut them down; and thou shalt build bulwarks against the city that maketh war with thee, until it be subdued.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


21:1    在耶和華你神所賜你為業的地上，若遇見被殺的人倒在田野，不知道是誰殺的，
If one be found slain in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee to possess it, lying in the field, and it be not known who hath slain him:

21:2    長老和審判官就要出去，從被殺的人那裡量起，直量到四圍的城邑，
Then thy elders and thy judges shall come forth, and they shall measure unto the cities which are round about him that is slain:

21:3    看哪城離被殺的人最近，那城的長老就要從牛群中取一隻未曾耕地，未曾負軛的母牛犢，
And it shall be, that the city which is next unto the slain man, even the elders of that city shall take an heifer, which hath not been wrought with, and which hath not drawn in the yoke;

21:4    把母牛犢牽到流水，未曾耕種的山谷去，在谷中打折母牛犢的頸項。
And the elders of that city shall bring down the heifer unto a rough valley, which is neither eared nor sown, and shall strike off the heifer's neck there in the valley:

21:5    祭司利未的子孫要近前來。因為耶和華你的神揀選了他們事奉他，奉耶和華的名祝福，所有爭訟毆打的事都要憑他們判斷。
And the priests the sons of Levi shall come near; for them the LORD thy God hath chosen to minister unto him, and to bless in the name of the LORD; and by their word shall every controversy and every stroke be tried:

21:6    那城的眾長老，就是離被殺的人最近的，要在那山谷中，在所打折頸項的母牛犢以上洗手，
And all the elders of that city, that are next unto the slain man, shall wash their hands over the heifer that is beheaded in the valley:

21:7    禱告（原文作回答）說，我們的手未曾流這人的血。我們的眼也未曾看見這事。
And they shall answer and say, Our hands have not shed this blood, neither have our eyes seen it.

21:8    耶和華阿，求你赦免你所救贖的以色列民，不要使流無辜血的罪歸在你的百姓以色列中間。這樣，流血的罪必得赦免。
Be merciful, O LORD, unto thy people Israel, whom thou hast redeemed, and lay not innocent blood unto thy people of Israel's charge. And the blood shall be forgiven them.

21:9    你行耶和華眼中看為正的事，就可以從你們中間除掉流無辜血的罪。
So shalt thou put away the guilt of innocent blood from among you, when thou shalt do that which is right in the sight of the LORD.

21:10    你出去與仇敵爭戰的時候，耶和華你的神將他們交在你手中，你就擄了他們去，
When thou goest forth to war against thine enemies, and the LORD thy God hath delivered them into thine hands, and thou hast taken them captive,

21:11    若在被擄的人中見有美貌的女子，戀慕她，要娶她為妻，
And seest among the captives a beautiful woman, and hast a desire unto her, that thou wouldest have her to thy wife;

21:12    就可以領她到你家裡去。她便要剃頭髮，修指甲，
Then thou shalt bring her home to thine house; and she shall shave her head, and pare her nails;

21:13    脫去被擄時所穿的衣服，住在你家裡哀哭父母一個整月，然後可以與她同房。你作她的丈夫，她作你的妻子。
And she shall put the raiment of her captivity from off her, and shall remain in thine house, and bewail her father and her mother a full month: and after that thou shalt go in unto her, and be her husband, and she shall be thy wife.

21:14    後來你若不喜悅她，就要由她隨意出去，決不可為錢賣她，也不可當婢女待她，因為你玷汙了她。
And it shall be, if thou have no delight in her, then thou shalt let her go whither she will; but thou shalt not sell her at all for money, thou shalt not make merchandise of her, because thou hast humbled her.

21:15    人若有二妻，一為所愛，一為所惡，所愛的，所惡的都給他生了兒子，但長子是所惡之妻生的。
If a man have two wives, one beloved, and another hated, and they have born him children, both the beloved and the hated; and if the firstborn son be hers that was hated:

21:16    到了把產業分給兒子承受的時候，不可將所愛之妻生的兒子立為長子，在所惡之妻生的兒子以上，
Then it shall be, when he maketh his sons to inherit that which he hath, that he may not make the son of the beloved firstborn before the son of the hated, which is indeed the firstborn:

21:17    卻要認所惡之妻生的兒子為長子，將產業多加一分給他。因這兒子是他力量強壯的時候生的，長子的名分本當歸他。
But he shall acknowledge the son of the hated for the firstborn, by giving him a double portion of all that he hath: for he is the beginning of his strength; the right of the firstborn is his.

21:18    人若有頑梗悖逆的兒子，不聽從父母的話，他們雖懲治他，他仍不聽從，
If a man have a stubborn and rebellious son, which will not obey the voice of his father, or the voice of his mother, and that, when they have chastened him, will not hearken unto them:

21:19    父母就要抓住他，將他帶到本地的城門，本城的長老那裡，
Then shall his father and his mother lay hold on him, and bring him out unto the elders of his city, and unto the gate of his place;

21:20    對長老說，我們這兒子頑梗悖逆，不聽從我們的話，是貪食好酒的人。
And they shall say unto the elders of his city, This our son is stubborn and rebellious, he will not obey our voice; he is a glutton, and a drunkard.

21:21    本城的眾人就要用石頭將他打死。這樣，就把那惡從你們中間除掉，以色列眾人都要聽見害怕。
And all the men of his city shall stone him with stones, that he die: so shalt thou put evil away from among you; and all Israel shall hear, and fear.

21:22    人若犯該死的罪，被治死了，你將他掛在木頭上，
And if a man have committed a sin worthy of death, and he be to be put to death, and thou hang him on a tree:

21:23    他的屍首不可留在木頭上過夜，必要當日將他葬埋，免得玷汙了耶和華你神所賜你為業之地。因為被掛的人是在神面前受咒詛的。
His body shall not remain all night upon the tree, but thou shalt in any wise bury him that day; (for he that is hanged is accursed of God;) that thy land be not defiled, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


22:1    你若看見弟兄的牛或羊失迷了路，不可佯為不見，總要把它牽回來交給你的弟兄。
Thou shalt not see thy brother's ox or his sheep go astray, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt in any case bring them again unto thy brother.

22:2    你弟兄若離你遠，或是你不認識他，就要牽到你家去，留在你那裡，等你弟兄來尋梢就還給他。
And if thy brother be not nigh unto thee, or if thou know him not, then thou shalt bring it unto thine own house, and it shall be with thee until thy brother seek after it, and thou shalt restore it to him again.

22:3    你的弟兄無論失落什麼，或是驢，或是衣服，你若遇見，都要這樣行，不可佯為不見。
In like manner shalt thou do with his ass; and so shalt thou do with his raiment; and with all lost thing of thy brother's, which he hath lost, and thou hast found, shalt thou do likewise: thou mayest not hide thyself.

22:4    你若看見弟兄的牛或驢跌倒在路上，不可佯為不見，總要幫助他拉起來。
Thou shalt not see thy brother's ass or his ox fall down by the way, and hide thyself from them: thou shalt surely help him to lift them up again.

22:5    婦女不可穿戴男子所穿戴的，男子也不可穿婦女的衣服，因為這樣行都是耶和華你神所憎惡的。
The woman shall not wear that which pertaineth unto a man, neither shall a man put on a woman's garment: for all that do so are abomination unto the LORD thy God.

22:6    你若路上遇見鳥窩，或在樹上或在地上，裡頭有雛或有蛋，母鳥伏在雛上或在蛋上，你不可連母帶雛一併取去。
If a bird's nest chance to be before thee in the way in any tree, or on the ground, whether they be young ones, or eggs, and the dam sitting upon the young, or upon the eggs, thou shalt not take the dam with the young:

22:7    總要放母，只可取雛，這樣你就可以享福，日子得以長久。
But thou shalt in any wise let the dam go, and take the young to thee; that it may be well with thee, and that thou mayest prolong thy days.

22:8    你若建造房屋，要在房上的四圍安欄杆，免得有人從房上掉下來，流血的罪就歸於你家。
When thou buildest a new house, then thou shalt make a battlement for thy roof, that thou bring not blood upon thine house, if any man fall from thence.

22:9    不可把兩樣種子種在你的葡萄園裡，免得你撒種所結的和葡萄園的果子都要充公。
Thou shalt not sow thy vineyard with divers seeds: lest the fruit of thy seed which thou hast sown, and the fruit of thy vineyard, be defiled.

22:10    不可並用牛，驢耕地。
Thou shalt not plow with an ox and an ass together.

22:11    不可穿羊毛，細麻兩樣攙雜料作的衣服。
Thou shalt not wear a garment of divers sorts, as of woollen and linen together.

22:12    你要在所披的外衣上四圍作？？子。
Thou shalt make thee fringes upon the four quarters of thy vesture, wherewith thou coverest thyself.

22:13    人若娶妻，與她同房之後恨惡她，
If any man take a wife, and go in unto her, and hate her,

22:14    信口說她，將醜名加在她身上，說，我娶了這女子，與她同房，見她沒有貞潔的憑據。
And give occasions of speech against her, and bring up an evil name upon her, and say, I took this woman, and when I came to her, I found her not a maid:

22:15    女子的父母就要把女子貞潔的憑據拿出來，帶到本城門長老那裡。
Then shall the father of the damsel, and her mother, take and bring forth the tokens of the damsel's virginity unto the elders of the city in the gate:

22:16    女子的父親要對長老說，我將我的女兒給這人為妻，他恨惡她，
And the damsel's father shall say unto the elders, I gave my daughter unto this man to wife, and he hateth her;

22:17    信口說她，說，我見你的女兒沒有貞潔的憑據。其實這就是我女兒貞潔的憑據。父母就把那布鋪在本城的長老面前。
And, lo, he hath given occasions of speech against her, saying, I found not thy daughter a maid; and yet these are the tokens of my daughter's virginity. And they shall spread the cloth before the elders of the city.

22:18    本城的長老要拿住那人，懲治他，
And the elders of that city shall take that man and chastise him;

22:19    並要罰他一百舍客勒銀子，給女子的父親，因為他將醜名加在以色列的一個處女身上。女子仍作他的妻，終身不可休她。
And they shall amerce him in an hundred shekels of silver, and give them unto the father of the damsel, because he hath brought up an evil name upon a virgin of Israel: and she shall be his wife; he may not put her away all his days.

22:20    但這事若是真的，女子沒有貞潔的憑據，
But if this thing be true, and the tokens of virginity be not found for the damsel:

22:21    就要將女子帶到她父家的門口，本城的人要用石頭將她打死。因為她在父家行了淫亂，在以色列中作了醜事。這樣，就把那惡從你們中間除掉。
Then they shall bring out the damsel to the door of her father's house, and the men of her city shall stone her with stones that she die: because she hath wrought folly in Israel, to play the whore in her father's house: so shalt thou put evil away from among you.

22:22    若遇見人與有丈夫的婦人行淫，就要將姦夫淫婦一併治死。這樣，就把那惡從以色列中除掉。
If a man be found lying with a woman married to an husband, then they shall both of them die, both the man that lay with the woman, and the woman: so shalt thou put away evil from Israel.

22:23    若有處女已經許配丈夫，有人在城裡遇見她，與她行淫，
If a damsel that is a virgin be betrothed unto an husband, and a man find her in the city, and lie with her;

22:24    你們就要把這二人帶到本城門，用石頭打死女子是因為雖在城裡卻沒有喊叫。男子是因為玷汙別人的妻。這樣，就把那惡從你們中間除掉。
Then ye shall bring them both out unto the gate of that city, and ye shall stone them with stones that they die; the damsel, because she cried not, being in the city; and the man, because he hath humbled his neighbour's wife: so thou shalt put away evil from among you.

22:25    若有男子在田野遇見已經許配人的女子，強與她行淫，只要將那男子治死。
But if a man find a betrothed damsel in the field, and the man force her, and lie with her: then the man only that lay with her shall die:

22:26    但不可辦女子。她本沒有該死的罪，這事就類乎人起來攻擊鄰舍，將他殺了一樣。
But unto the damsel thou shalt do nothing; there is in the damsel no sin worthy of death: for as when a man riseth against his neighbour, and slayeth him, even so is this matter:

22:27    因為男子是在田野遇見那已經許配人的女子，女子喊叫，並無人救她。
For he found her in the field, and the betrothed damsel cried, and there was none to save her.

22:28    若有男子遇見沒有許配人的處女，抓住她，與她行淫，被人看見，
If a man find a damsel that is a virgin, which is not betrothed, and lay hold on her, and lie with her, and they be found;

22:29    這男子就要拿五十舍客勒銀子給女子的父親。因他玷汙了這女子，就要娶她為妻，終身不可休她。
Then the man that lay with her shall give unto the damsel's father fifty shekels of silver, and she shall be his wife; because he hath humbled her, he may not put her away all his days.

22:30    人不可娶繼母為妻。不可掀開他父親的衣襟。
A man shall not take his father's wife, nor discover his father's skirt.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


23:1    凡外腎受傷的，或被閹割的，不可入耶和華的會。
He that is wounded in the stones, or hath his privy member cut off, shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD.

23:2    私生子不可入耶和華的會。他的子孫，直到十代，也不可入耶和華的會。
A bastard shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD; even to his tenth generation shall he not enter into the congregation of the LORD.

23:3    亞捫人或是摩押人不可入耶和華的會。他們的子孫，雖過十代，也永不可入耶和華的會。
An Ammonite or Moabite shall not enter into the congregation of the LORD; even to their tenth generation shall they not enter into the congregation of the LORD for ever:

23:4    因為你們出埃及的時候，他們沒有拿食物和水在路上迎接你們，又因他們僱了美索不達米亞的毗奪人比珥的兒子巴蘭來咒詛你們。
Because they met you not with bread and with water in the way, when ye came forth out of Egypt; and because they hired against thee Balaam the son of Beor of Pethor of Mesopotamia, to curse thee.

23:5    然而耶和華你的神不肯聽從巴蘭，卻使那咒詛的言語變為祝福的話，因為耶和華你的神愛你。
Nevertheless the LORD thy God would not hearken unto Balaam; but the LORD thy God turned the curse into a blessing unto thee, because the LORD thy God loved thee.

23:6    你一生一世永不可求他們的平安和他們的利益。
Thou shalt not seek their peace nor their prosperity all thy days for ever.

23:7    不可憎惡以東人，因為他是你的弟兄。不可憎惡埃及人，因為你在他的地上作過寄居的。
Thou shalt not abhor an Edomite; for he is thy brother: thou shalt not abhor an Egyptian; because thou wast a stranger in his land.

23:8    他們第三代子孫可以入耶和華的會。
The children that are begotten of them shall enter into the congregation of the LORD in their third generation.

23:9    你出兵攻打仇敵，就要遠避諸惡。
When the host goeth forth against thine enemies, then keep thee from every wicked thing.

23:10    你們中間，若有人夜間偶然夢遺，不潔淨，就要出到營外，不可入營。
If there be among you any man, that is not clean by reason of uncleanness that chanceth him by night, then shall he go abroad out of the camp, he shall not come within the camp:

23:11    到傍晚的時候，他要用水洗澡，及至日落了才可以入營。
But it shall be, when evening cometh on, he shall wash himself with water: and when the sun is down, he shall come into the camp again.

23:12    你在營外也該定出一個地方作為便所。
Thou shalt have a place also without the camp, whither thou shalt go forth abroad:

23:13    在你器械之中當預備一把鍬，你出營外便溺以後，用以剷土，轉身掩蓋。
And thou shalt have a paddle upon thy weapon; and it shall be, when thou wilt ease thyself abroad, thou shalt dig therewith, and shalt turn back and cover that which cometh from thee:

23:14    因為耶和華你的神常在你營中行走，要救護你，將仇敵交給你，所以你的營理當聖潔，免得他見你那裡有汙穢，就離開你。
For the LORD thy God walketh in the midst of thy camp, to deliver thee, and to give up thine enemies before thee; therefore shall thy camp be holy: that he see no unclean thing in thee, and turn away from thee.

23:15    若有奴僕脫了主人的手，逃到你那裡，你不可將他交付他的主人。
Thou shalt not deliver unto his master the servant which is escaped from his master unto thee:

23:16    他必在你那裡與你同住，在你的城邑中，要由他選擇一個所喜悅的地方居住。你不可欺負他。
He shall dwell with thee, even among you, in that place which he shall choose in one of thy gates, where it liketh him best: thou shalt not oppress him.

23:17    以色列的女子中不可有妓女。以色列的男子中不可有孌童。
There shall be no whore of the daughters of Israel, nor a sodomite of the sons of Israel.

23:18    娼妓所得的錢，或孌童（原文作狗）所得的價，你不可帶入耶和華你神的殿還願，因為這兩樣都是耶和華你神所憎惡的。
Thou shalt not bring the hire of a whore, or the price of a dog, into the house of the LORD thy God for any vow: for even both these are abomination unto the LORD thy God.

23:19    你借給你弟兄的，或是錢財或是糧食，無論什麼可生利的物，都不可取利。
Thou shalt not lend upon usury to thy brother; usury of money, usury of victuals, usury of any thing that is lent upon usury:

23:20    借給外邦人可以取利，只是借給你弟兄不可取利。這樣，耶和華你神必在你所去得為業的地上和你手裡所辦的一切事上賜福與你。
Unto a stranger thou mayest lend upon usury; but unto thy brother thou shalt not lend upon usury: that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all that thou settest thine hand to in the land whither thou goest to possess it.

23:21    你向耶和華你的神許願，償還不可遲延。因為耶和華你的神必定向你追討，你不償還就有罪。
When thou shalt vow a vow unto the LORD thy God, thou shalt not slack to pay it: for the LORD thy God will surely require it of thee; and it would be sin in thee.

23:22    你若不許願，倒無罪。
But if thou shalt forbear to vow, it shall be no sin in thee.

23:23    你嘴裡所出的，就是你口中應許甘心所獻的，要照你向耶和華你神所許的願謹守遵行。
That which is gone out of thy lips thou shalt keep and perform; even a freewill offering, according as thou hast vowed unto the LORD thy God, which thou hast promised with thy mouth.

23:24    你進了鄰舍的葡萄園，可以隨意吃飽了葡萄，只是不可裝在器皿中。
When thou comest into thy neighbour's vineyard, then thou mayest eat grapes thy fill at thine own pleasure; but thou shalt not put any in thy vessel.

23:25    你進了鄰舍站著的禾稼，可以用手摘穗子，只是不可用鐮刀割取禾稼。
When thou comest into the standing corn of thy neighbour, then thou mayest pluck the ears with thine hand; but thou shalt not move a sickle unto thy neighbour's standing corn.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


24:1    人若娶妻以後，見她有什麼不合理的事，不喜悅她，就可以寫休書交在她手中，打發她離開夫家。
When a man hath taken a wife, and married her, and it come to pass that she find no favour in his eyes, because he hath found some uncleanness in her: then let him write her a bill of divorcement, and give it in her hand, and send her out of his house.

24:2    婦人離開夫家以後，可以去嫁別人。
And when she is departed out of his house, she may go and be another man's wife.

24:3    後夫若恨惡她，寫休書交在她手中，打發她離開夫家，或是娶她為妻的後夫死了，
And if the latter husband hate her, and write her a bill of divorcement, and giveth it in her hand, and sendeth her out of his house; or if the latter husband die, which took her to be his wife;

24:4    打發她去的前夫不可在婦人玷汙之後再娶她為妻，因為這是耶和華所憎惡的。不可使耶和華你神所賜為業之地被玷汙了。
Her former husband, which sent her away, may not take her again to be his wife, after that she is defiled; for that is abomination before the LORD: and thou shalt not cause the land to sin, which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance.

24:5    新娶妻之人不可從軍出征，也不可託他辦理什麼公事，可以在家清閒一年，使他所娶的妻快活。
When a man hath taken a new wife, he shall not go out to war, neither shall he be charged with any business: but he shall be free at home one year, and shall cheer up his wife which he hath taken.

24:6    不可拿人的全盤磨石或是上磨石作當頭，因為這是拿人的命作當頭。
No man shall take the nether or the upper millstone to pledge: for he taketh a man's life to pledge.

24:7    若遇見人拐帶以色列中的一個弟兄，當奴才待他，或是賣了他，那拐帶人的就必治死。這樣，便將那惡從你們中間除掉。
If a man be found stealing any of his brethren of the children of Israel, and maketh merchandise of him, or selleth him; then that thief shall die; and thou shalt put evil away from among you.

24:8    在大麻瘋的災病上，你們要謹慎，照祭司利未人一切所指教你們的留意遵行。我怎樣吩咐他們，你們要怎樣遵行。
Take heed in the plague of leprosy, that thou observe diligently, and do according to all that the priests the Levites shall teach you: as I commanded them, so ye shall observe to do.

24:9    當記念出埃及後，在路上，耶和華你神向米利暗所行的事。
Remember what the LORD thy God did unto Miriam by the way, after that ye were come forth out of Egypt.

24:10    你借給鄰舍，不拘是什麼，不可進他家拿他的當頭。
When thou dost lend thy brother any thing, thou shalt not go into his house to fetch his pledge.

24:11    要站在外面，等那向你借貸的人把當頭拿出來交給你。
Thou shalt stand abroad, and the man to whom thou dost lend shall bring out the pledge abroad unto thee.

24:12    他若是窮人，你不可留他的當頭過夜。
And if the man be poor, thou shalt not sleep with his pledge:

24:13    日落的時候，總要把當頭還他，使他用那件衣服蓋著睡覺，他就為你祝福。這在耶和華你神面前就是你的義了。
In any case thou shalt deliver him the pledge again when the sun goeth down, that he may sleep in his own raiment, and bless thee: and it shall be righteousness unto thee before the LORD thy God.

24:14    困苦窮乏的僱工，無論是你的弟兄或是在你城裡寄居的，你不可欺負他。
Thou shalt not oppress an hired servant that is poor and needy, whether he be of thy brethren, or of thy strangers that are in thy land within thy gates:

24:15    要當日給他工價，不可等到日落。因為他窮苦，把心放在工價上，恐怕他因你求告耶和華，罪便歸你了。
At his day thou shalt give him his hire, neither shall the sun go down upon it; for he is poor, and setteth his heart upon it: lest he cry against thee unto the LORD, and it be sin unto thee.

24:16    不可因子殺父，也不可因父殺子。凡被殺的都為本身的罪。
The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, neither shall the children be put to death for the fathers: every man shall be put to death for his own sin.

24:17    你不可向寄居的和孤兒屈枉正直，也不可拿寡婦的衣裳作當頭。
Thou shalt not pervert the judgment of the stranger, nor of the fatherless; nor take a widow's raiment to pledge:

24:18    要記念你在埃及作過奴僕。耶和華你的神從那裡將你救贖，所以我吩咐你這樣行。
But thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in Egypt, and the LORD thy God redeemed thee thence: therefore I command thee to do this thing.

24:19    你在田間收割莊稼，若忘下一捆，不可回去再取，要留給寄居的與孤兒寡婦。這樣，耶和華你神必在你手裡所辦的一切事上賜福與你。
When thou cuttest down thine harvest in thy field, and hast forgot a sheaf in the field, thou shalt not go again to fetch it: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow: that the LORD thy God may bless thee in all the work of thine hands.

24:20    你打橄欖樹，枝上剩下的，不可再打。要留給寄居的與孤兒寡婦。
When thou beatest thine olive tree, thou shalt not go over the boughs again: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.

24:21    你摘葡萄園的葡萄，所剩下的，不可再摘。要留給寄居的與孤兒寡婦。
When thou gatherest the grapes of thy vineyard, thou shalt not glean it afterward: it shall be for the stranger, for the fatherless, and for the widow.

24:22    你也要記念你在埃及地作過奴僕，所以我吩咐你這樣行。
And thou shalt remember that thou wast a bondman in the land of Egypt: therefore I command thee to do this thing.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


25:1    人若有爭訟，來聽審判，審判官就要定義人有理，定惡人有罪。
If there be a controversy between men, and they come unto judgment, that the judges may judge them; then they shall justify the righteous, and condemn the wicked.

25:2    惡人若該受責打，審判官就要叫他當面伏在地上，按著他的罪照數責打。
And it shall be, if the wicked man be worthy to be beaten, that the judge shall cause him to lie down, and to be beaten before his face, according to his fault, by a certain number.

25:3    只可打他四十下，不可過數。若過數，便是輕賤你的弟兄了。
Forty stripes he may give him, and not exceed: lest, if he should exceed, and beat him above these with many stripes, then thy brother should seem vile unto thee.

25:4    牛在場上踹谷的時候，不可籠住它的嘴。
Thou shalt not muzzle the ox when he treadeth out the corn.

25:5    弟兄同居，若死了一個，沒有兒子，死人的妻不可出嫁外人，她丈夫的兄弟當盡弟兄的本分，娶她為妻，與她同房。
If brethren dwell together, and one of them die, and have no child, the wife of the dead shall not marry without unto a stranger: her husband's brother shall go in unto her, and take her to him to wife, and perform the duty of an husband's brother unto her.

25:6    婦人生的長子必歸死兄的名下，免得他的名在以色列中塗抹了。
And it shall be, that the firstborn which she beareth shall succeed in the name of his brother which is dead, that his name be not put out of Israel.

25:7    那人若不願意娶她哥哥的妻，他哥哥的妻就要到城門長老那裡，說，我丈夫的兄弟不肯在以色列中興起他哥哥的名字，不給我盡弟兄的本分。
And if the man like not to take his brother's wife, then let his brother's wife go up to the gate unto the elders, and say, My husband's brother refuseth to raise up unto his brother a name in Israel, he will not perform the duty of my husband's brother.

25:8    本城的長老就要召那人來問他，他若執意說，我不願意娶她，
Then the elders of his city shall call him, and speak unto him: and if he stand to it, and say, I like not to take her;

25:9    他哥哥的妻就要當著長老到那人的跟前，脫了他的鞋，吐唾沫在他臉上，說，凡不為哥哥建立家室的都要這樣待他。
Then shall his brother's wife come unto him in the presence of the elders, and loose his shoe from off his foot, and spit in his face, and shall answer and say, So shall it be done unto that man that will not build up his brother's house.

25:10    在以色列中，他的名必稱為脫鞋之家。
And his name shall be called in Israel, The house of him that hath his shoe loosed.

25:11    若有二人爭鬥，這人的妻近前來，要救她丈夫脫離那打她丈夫之人的手，抓住那人的下體，
When men strive together one with another, and the wife of the one draweth near for to deliver her husband out of the hand of him that smiteth him, and putteth forth her hand, and taketh him by the secrets:

25:12    就要砍斷婦人的手，眼不可顧惜她。
Then thou shalt cut off her hand, thine eye shall not pity her.

25:13    你囊中不可有一大一小兩樣的法碼。
Thou shalt not have in thy bag divers weights, a great and a small.

25:14    你家裡不可有一大一小兩樣的升斗。
Thou shalt not have in thine house divers measures, a great and a small.

25:15    當用對準公平的法碼，公平的升斗。這樣，在耶和華你神所賜你的地上，你的日子就可以長久。
But thou shalt have a perfect and just weight, a perfect and just measure shalt thou have: that thy days may be lengthened in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

25:16    因為行非義之事的人都是耶和華你神所憎惡的。
For all that do such things, and all that do unrighteously, are an abomination unto the LORD thy God.

25:17    你要記念你們出埃及的時候，亞瑪力人在路上怎樣待你。
Remember what Amalek did unto thee by the way, when ye were come forth out of Egypt;

25:18    他們在路上遇見你，趁你疲乏困倦擊殺你盡後邊軟弱的人，並不敬畏神。
How he met thee by the way, and smote the hindmost of thee, even all that were feeble behind thee, when thou wast faint and weary; and he feared not God.

25:19    所以耶和華你神使你不被四圍一切的仇敵擾亂，在耶和華你神賜你為業的地上得享平安。那時，你要將亞瑪力的名號從天下塗抹了，不可忘記。
Therefore it shall be, when the LORD thy God hath given thee rest from all thine enemies round about, in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance to possess it, that thou shalt blot out the remembrance of Amalek from under heaven; thou shalt not forget it.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


26:1    你進去得了耶和華你神所賜你為業之地居住，
And it shall be, when thou art come in unto the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee for an inheritance, and possessest it, and dwellest therein;

26:2    就要從耶和華你神賜你的地上將所收的各種初熟的土產取些來，盛在筐子裡，往耶和華你神所選擇要立為他名的居所去，
That thou shalt take of the first of all the fruit of the earth, which thou shalt bring of thy land that the LORD thy God giveth thee, and shalt put it in a basket, and shalt go unto the place which the LORD thy God shall choose to place his name there.

26:3    見當時作祭司的，對他說，我今日向耶和華你神明認，我已來到耶和華向我們列祖起誓應許賜給我們的地。
And thou shalt go unto the priest that shall be in those days, and say unto him, I profess this day unto the LORD thy God, that I am come unto the country which the LORD sware unto our fathers for to give us.

26:4    祭司就從你手裡取過筐子來，放在耶和華你神的壇前。
And the priest shall take the basket out of thine hand, and set it down before the altar of the LORD thy God.

26:5    你要在耶和華你神面前說，我祖原是一個將亡的亞蘭人，下到埃及寄居。他人口稀少，在那裡卻成了又大又強，人數很多的國民。
And thou shalt speak and say before the LORD thy God, A Syrian ready to perish was my father, and he went down into Egypt, and sojourned there with a few, and became there a nation, great, mighty, and populous:

26:6    埃及人惡待我們，苦害我們，將苦工加在我們身上。
And the Egyptians evil entreated us, and afflicted us, and laid upon us hard bondage:

26:7    於是我們哀求耶和華我們列祖的神，耶和華聽見我們的聲音，看見我們所受的困苦，勞碌，欺壓，
And when we cried unto the LORD God of our fathers, the LORD heard our voice, and looked on our affliction, and our labour, and our oppression:

26:8    他就用大能的手和伸出來的膀臂，並大可畏的事與神蹟奇事，領我們出了埃及，
And the LORD brought us forth out of Egypt with a mighty hand, and with an outstretched arm, and with great terribleness, and with signs, and with wonders:

26:9    將我們領進這地方，把這流奶與蜜之地賜給我們。
And he hath brought us into this place, and hath given us this land, even a land that floweth with milk and honey.

26:10    耶和華阿，現在我把你所賜給我地上初熟的土產奉了來。隨後你要把筐子放在耶和華你神面前，向耶和華你的神下拜。
And now, behold, I have brought the firstfruits of the land, which thou, O LORD, hast given me. And thou shalt set it before the LORD thy God, and worship before the LORD thy God:

26:11    你和利未人，並在你們中間寄居的，要因耶和華你神所賜你和你家的一切福分歡樂。
And thou shalt rejoice in every good thing which the LORD thy God hath given unto thee, and unto thine house, thou, and the Levite, and the stranger that is among you.

26:12    每逢三年，就是十分取一之年，你取完了一切土產的十分之一，要分給利未人和寄居的，與孤兒寡婦，使他們在你城中可以吃得飽足。
When thou hast made an end of tithing all the tithes of thine increase the third year, which is the year of tithing, and hast given it unto the Levite, the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, that they may eat within thy gates, and be filled;

26:13    你又要在耶和華你神面前說，我已將聖物從我家裡拿出來，給了利未人和寄居的，與孤兒寡婦，是照你所吩咐我的一切命令。你的命令我都沒有違背，也沒有忘記。
Then thou shalt say before the LORD thy God, I have brought away the hallowed things out of mine house, and also have given them unto the Levite, and unto the stranger, to the fatherless, and to the widow, according to all thy commandments which thou hast commanded me: I have not transgressed thy commandments, neither have I forgotten them:

26:14    我守喪的時候，沒有吃這聖物。不潔淨的時候，也沒有拿出來，又沒有為死人送去。我聽從了耶和華我神的話，都照你所吩咐的行了。
I have not eaten thereof in my mourning, neither have I taken away ought thereof for any unclean use, nor given ought thereof for the dead: but I have hearkened to the voice of the LORD my God, and have done according to all that thou hast commanded me.

26:15    求你從天上，你的聖所垂看，賜福給你的百姓以色列與你所賜給我們的地，就是你向我們列祖起誓賜我們流奶與蜜之地。
Look down from thy holy habitation, from heaven, and bless thy people Israel, and the land which thou hast given us, as thou swarest unto our fathers, a land that floweth with milk and honey.

26:16    耶和華你的神今日吩咐你行這些律例典章，所以你要盡心儘性謹守遵行。
This day the LORD thy God hath commanded thee to do these statutes and judgments: thou shalt therefore keep and do them with all thine heart, and with all thy soul.

26:17    你今日認耶和華為你的神，應許遵行他的道，謹守他的律例，誡命，典章，聽從他的話。
Thou hast avouched the LORD this day to be thy God, and to walk in his ways, and to keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his judgments, and to hearken unto his voice:

26:18    耶和華今日照他所應許你的，也認你為他的子民，使你謹守他的一切誡命，
And the LORD hath avouched thee this day to be his peculiar people, as he hath promised thee, and that thou shouldest keep all his commandments;

26:19    又使你得稱讚，美名，尊榮，超乎他所造的萬民之上，並照他所應許的使你歸耶和華你神為聖潔的民。
And to make thee high above all nations which he hath made, in praise, and in name, and in honour; and that thou mayest be an holy people unto the LORD thy God, as he hath spoken.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


27:1    摩西和以色列的眾長老吩咐百姓說，你們要遵守我今日所吩咐的一切誡命。
And Moses with the elders of Israel commanded the people, saying, Keep all the commandments which I command you this day.

27:2    你們過約旦河，到了耶和華你神所賜給你的地，當天要立起幾塊大石頭，墁上石灰，
And it shall be on the day when ye shall pass over Jordan unto the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, that thou shalt set thee up great stones, and plaister them with plaister:

27:3    把這律法的一切話寫在石頭上。你過了河，可以進入耶和華你神所賜你流奶與蜜之地，正如耶和華你列祖之神所應許你的。
And thou shalt write upon them all the words of this law, when thou art passed over, that thou mayest go in unto the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee, a land that floweth with milk and honey; as the LORD God of thy fathers hath promised thee.

27:4    你們過了約旦河，就要在以巴路山上照我今日所吩咐的，將這些石頭立起來，墁上石灰。
Therefore it shall be when ye be gone over Jordan, that ye shall set up these stones, which I command you this day, in mount Ebal, and thou shalt plaister them with plaister.

27:5    在那裡要為耶和華你的神築一座石壇。在石頭上不可動鐵器。
And there shalt thou build an altar unto the LORD thy God, an altar of stones: thou shalt not lift up any iron tool upon them.

27:6    要用沒有鑿過的石頭築耶和華你神的壇，在壇上要將燔祭獻給耶和華你的神。
Thou shalt build the altar of the LORD thy God of whole stones: and thou shalt offer burnt offerings thereon unto the LORD thy God:

27:7    又要獻平安祭，且在那裡吃，在耶和華你的神面前歡樂。
And thou shalt offer peace offerings, and shalt eat there, and rejoice before the LORD thy God.

27:8    你要將這律法的一切話明明地寫在石頭上。
And thou shalt write upon the stones all the words of this law very plainly.

27:9    摩西和祭司利未人曉諭以色列眾人說，以色列阿，要默默靜聽。你今日成為耶和華你神的百姓了。
And Moses and the priests the Levites spake unto all Israel, saying, Take heed, and hearken, O Israel; this day thou art become the people of the LORD thy God.

27:10    所以要聽從耶和華你神的話，遵行他的誡命律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的。
Thou shalt therefore obey the voice of the LORD thy God, and do his commandments and his statutes, which I command thee this day.

27:11    當日，摩西囑咐百姓說，
And Moses charged the people the same day, saying,

27:12    你們過了約旦河，西緬，利未，猶大，以薩迦，約瑟，便雅憫六個支派的人都要站在基利心山上為百姓祝福。
These shall stand upon mount Gerizim to bless the people, when ye are come over Jordan; Simeon, and Levi, and Judah, and Issachar, and Joseph, and Benjamin:

27:13    流便，迦得，亞設，西布倫，但，拿弗他利六個支派的人都要站在以巴路山上宣佈咒詛。
And these shall stand upon mount Ebal to curse; Reuben, Gad, and Asher, and Zebulun, Dan, and Naphtali.

27:14    利未人要向以色列眾人高聲說，
And the Levites shall speak, and say unto all the men of Israel with a loud voice,

27:15    有人制造耶和華所憎惡的偶像，或雕刻，或鑄造，就是工匠手所作的，在暗中設立，那人必受咒詛。百姓都要答應說，阿們。
Cursed be the man that maketh any graven or molten image, an abomination unto the LORD, the work of the hands of the craftsman, and putteth it in a secret place. And all the people shall answer and say, Amen.

27:16    輕慢父母的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that setteth light by his father or his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:17    挪移鄰舍地界的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that removeth his neighbour's landmark. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:18    使瞎子走差路的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that maketh the blind to wander out of the way. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:19    向寄居的和孤兒寡婦屈枉正直的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that perverteth the judgment of the stranger, fatherless, and widow. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:20    與繼母行淫的，必受咒詛。因為掀開他父親的衣襟。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that lieth with his father's wife; because he uncovereth his father's skirt. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:21    與獸淫合的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that lieth with any manner of beast. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:22    與異母同父，或異父同母的姊妹行淫的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that lieth with his sister, the daughter of his father, or the daughter of his mother. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:23    與岳母行淫的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that lieth with his mother in law. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:24    暗中殺人的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that smiteth his neighbour secretly. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:25    受賄賂害死無辜之人的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that taketh reward to slay an innocent person. And all the people shall say, Amen.

27:26    不堅守遵行這律法言語的，必受咒詛。百姓都要說，阿們。
Cursed be he that confirmeth not all the words of this law to do them. And all the people shall say, Amen.





舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


28:1    你若留意聽從耶和華你神的話，謹守遵行他的一切誡命，就是我今日所吩咐你的，他必使你超乎天下萬民之上。
And it shall come to pass, if thou shalt hearken diligently unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe and to do all his commandments which I command thee this day, that the LORD thy God will set thee on high above all nations of the earth:

28:2    你若聽從耶和華你神的話，這以下的福必追隨你，臨到你身上，
And all these blessings shall come on thee, and overtake thee, if thou shalt hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God.

28:3    你在城裡必蒙福，在田間也必蒙福。
Blessed shalt thou be in the city, and blessed shalt thou be in the field.

28:4    你身所生的，地所產的，牲畜所下的，以及牛犢，洋羔，都必蒙福。
Blessed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy ground, and the fruit of thy cattle, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.

28:5    你的筐子和你的摶面盆都必蒙福。
Blessed shall be thy basket and thy store.

28:6    你出也蒙福，入也蒙福。
Blessed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and blessed shalt thou be when thou goest out.

28:7    仇敵起來攻擊你，耶和華必使他們在你面前被你殺敗。他們從一條路來攻擊你，必從七條路逃跑。
The LORD shall cause thine enemies that rise up against thee to be smitten before thy face: they shall come out against thee one way, and flee before thee seven ways.

28:8    在你倉房裡，並你手所辦的一切事上，耶和華所命的福必臨到你。耶和華你神也要在所給你的地上賜福與你。
The LORD shall command the blessing upon thee in thy storehouses, and in all that thou settest thine hand unto; and he shall bless thee in the land which the LORD thy God giveth thee.

28:9    你若謹守耶和華你神的誡命，遵行他的道，他必照著向你所起的誓立你作為自己的聖民。
The LORD shall establish thee an holy people unto himself, as he hath sworn unto thee, if thou shalt keep the commandments of the LORD thy God, and walk in his ways.

28:10    天下萬民見你歸在耶和華的名下，就要懼怕你。
And all people of the earth shall see that thou art called by the name of the LORD; and they shall be afraid of thee.

28:11    你在耶和華向你列祖起誓應許賜你的地上，他必使你身所生的，牲畜所下的，地所產的，都綽綽有餘。
And the LORD shall make thee plenteous in goods, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy ground, in the land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers to give thee.

28:12    耶和華必為你開天上的府庫，按時降雨在你的地上。在你手裡所辦的一切事上賜福與你。你必借給許多國民，卻不致向他們借貸。
The LORD shall open unto thee his good treasure, the heaven to give the rain unto thy land in his season, and to bless all the work of thine hand: and thou shalt lend unto many nations, and thou shalt not borrow.

28:13    *
And the LORD shall make thee the head, and not the tail; and thou shalt be above only, and thou shalt not be beneath; if that thou hearken unto the commandments of the LORD thy God, which I command thee this day, to observe and to do them:

28:14    你若聽從耶和華你神的誡命，就是我今日所吩咐你的，謹守遵行，不偏左右，也不隨從事奉別神，耶和華就必使你作首不作尾，但居上不居下。
And thou shalt not go aside from any of the words which I command thee this day, to the right hand, or to the left, to go after other gods to serve them.

28:15    你若不聽從耶和華你神的話，不謹守遵行他的一切誡命律例，就是我今日所吩咐你的，這以下的咒詛都必追隨你，臨到你身上，
But it shall come to pass, if thou wilt not hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to observe to do all his commandments and his statutes which I command thee this day; that all these curses shall come upon thee, and overtake thee:

28:16    你在城裡必受咒詛，在田間也必受咒詛。
Cursed shalt thou be in the city, and cursed shalt thou be in the field.

28:17    你的筐子和你的摶面盆都必受咒詛。
Cursed shall be thy basket and thy store.

28:18    你身所生的，地所產的，以及牛犢，羊羔，都必受咒詛。
Cursed shall be the fruit of thy body, and the fruit of thy land, the increase of thy kine, and the flocks of thy sheep.

28:19    你出也受咒詛，入也受咒詛。
Cursed shalt thou be when thou comest in, and cursed shalt thou be when thou goest out.

28:20    耶和華因你行惡離棄他，必在你手裡所辦的一切事上，使咒詛，擾亂，責罰臨到你，直到你被毀滅，速速地滅亡。
The LORD shall send upon thee cursing, vexation, and rebuke, in all that thou settest thine hand unto for to do, until thou be destroyed, and until thou perish quickly; because of the wickedness of thy doings, whereby thou hast forsaken me.

28:21    耶和華必使瘟疫貼在你身上，直到他將你從所進去得為業的地上滅絕。
The LORD shall make the pestilence cleave unto thee, until he have consumed thee from off the land, whither thou goest to possess it.

28:22    耶和華要用癆病，熱病，火症，瘧疾，刀劍，旱風（或作乾旱），黴爛攻擊你。這都要追趕你，直到你滅亡。
The LORD shall smite thee with a consumption, and with a fever, and with an inflammation, and with an extreme burning, and with the sword, and with blasting, and with mildew; and they shall pursue thee until thou perish.

28:23    你頭上的天要變為銅，腳下的地要變為鐵。
And thy heaven that is over thy head shall be brass, and the earth that is under thee shall be iron.

28:24    耶和華要使那降在你地上的雨變為塵沙，從天臨在你身上，直到你滅亡。
The LORD shall make the rain of thy land powder and dust: from heaven shall it come down upon thee, until thou be destroyed.

28:25    耶和華必使你敗在仇敵面前，你從一條路去攻擊他們，必從七條路逃跑。你必在天下萬國中拋來拋去。
The LORD shall cause thee to be smitten before thine enemies: thou shalt go out one way against them, and flee seven ways before them: and shalt be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.

28:26    你的屍首必給空中的飛鳥和地上的走獸作食物，並無人哄趕。
And thy carcase shall be meat unto all fowls of the air, and unto the beasts of the earth, and no man shall fray them away.

28:27    耶和華必用埃及人的瘡並痔瘡，牛皮癬與疥攻擊你，使你不能醫治。
The LORD will smite thee with the botch of Egypt, and with the emerods, and with the scab, and with the itch, whereof thou canst not be healed.

28:28    耶和華必用癲狂，眼瞎，心驚攻擊你。
The LORD shall smite thee with madness, and blindness, and astonishment of heart:

28:29    你必在午間摸索，好像瞎子在暗中摸索一樣。你所行的必不亨通，時常遭遇欺壓，搶奪，無人搭救。
And thou shalt grope at noonday, as the blind gropeth in darkness, and thou shalt not prosper in thy ways: and thou shalt be only oppressed and spoiled evermore, and no man shall save thee.

28:30    你聘定了妻，別人必與她同房。你建造房屋，不得住在其內。你栽種葡萄園，也不得用其中的果子。
Thou shalt betroth a wife, and another man shall lie with her: thou shalt build an house, and thou shalt not dwell therein: thou shalt plant a vineyard, and shalt not gather the grapes thereof.

28:31    你的牛在你眼前宰了，你必不得吃它的肉。你的驢在你眼前被搶奪，不得歸還。你的羊歸了仇敵，無人搭救。
Thine ox shall be slain before thine eyes, and thou shalt not eat thereof: thine ass shall be violently taken away from before thy face, and shall not be restored to thee: thy sheep shall be given unto thine enemies, and thou shalt have none to rescue them.

28:32    你的兒女必歸與別國的民。你的眼目終日切望，甚至失明，你手中無力拯救。
Thy sons and thy daughters shall be given unto another people, and thine eyes shall look, and fail with longing for them all the day long: and there shall be no might in thine hand:

28:33    你的土產和你勞碌得來的，必被你所不認識的國民吃盡。你時常被欺負，受壓制，
The fruit of thy land, and all thy labours, shall a nation which thou knowest not eat up; and thou shalt be only oppressed and crushed alway:

28:34    甚至你因眼中所看見的，必致瘋狂。
So that thou shalt be mad for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.

28:35    耶和華必攻擊你，使你膝上腿上，從腳掌到頭頂，長毒瘡無法醫治。
The LORD shall smite thee in the knees, and in the legs, with a sore botch that cannot be healed, from the sole of thy foot unto the top of thy head.

28:36    耶和華必將你和你所立的王領到你和你列祖素不認識的國去。在那裡你必事奉木頭石頭的神。
The LORD shall bring thee, and thy king which thou shalt set over thee, unto a nation which neither thou nor thy fathers have known; and there shalt thou serve other gods, wood and stone.

28:37    你在耶和華領你到的各國中，要令人驚駭，笑談，譏誚。
And thou shalt become an astonishment, a proverb, and a byword, among all nations whither the LORD shall lead thee.

28:38    你帶到田間的種子雖多，收進來的卻少，因為被蝗蟲吃了。
Thou shalt carry much seed out into the field, and shalt gather but little in; for the locust shall consume it.

28:39    你栽種，修理葡萄園，卻不得收葡萄，也不得喝葡萄酒，因為被蟲子吃了。
Thou shalt plant vineyards, and dress them, but shalt neither drink of the wine, nor gather the grapes; for the worms shall eat them.

28:40    你全境有橄欖樹，卻不得其油抹身，因為樹上的橄欖不熟自落了。
Thou shalt have olive trees throughout all thy coasts, but thou shalt not anoint thyself with the oil; for thine olive shall cast his fruit.

28:41    你生兒養女，卻不算是你的，因為必被擄去。
Thou shalt beget sons and daughters, but thou shalt not enjoy them; for they shall go into captivity.

28:42    你所有的樹木和你地裡的出產必被蝗蟲所吃。
All thy trees and fruit of thy land shall the locust consume.

28:43    在你中間寄居的，必漸漸上升，比你高而又高。你必漸漸下降，低而又低。
The stranger that is within thee shall get up above thee very high; and thou shalt come down very low.

28:44    他必借給你，你卻不能借給他。他必作首，你必作尾。
He shall lend to thee, and thou shalt not lend to him: he shall be the head, and thou shalt be the tail.

28:45    這一切咒詛必追隨你，趕上你，直到你滅亡。因為你不聽從耶和華你神的話，不遵守他所吩咐的誡命律例。
Moreover all these curses shall come upon thee, and shall pursue thee, and overtake thee, till thou be destroyed; because thou hearkenedst not unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which he commanded thee:

28:46    這些咒詛必在你和你後裔的身上成為異跡奇事，直到永遠。
And they shall be upon thee for a sign and for a wonder, and upon thy seed for ever.

28:47    因為你富有的時候，不歡心樂意地事奉耶和華你的神，
Because thou servedst not the LORD thy God with joyfulness, and with gladness of heart, for the abundance of all things;

28:48    所以你必在飢餓，乾渴，赤露，缺乏之中事奉耶和華所打發來攻擊你的仇敵。他必把鐵軛加在你的頸項上，直到將你滅絕。
Therefore shalt thou serve thine enemies which the LORD shall send against thee, in hunger, and in thirst, and in nakedness, and in want of all things: and he shall put a yoke of iron upon thy neck, until he have destroyed thee.

28:49    耶和華要從遠方，地極帶一國的民，如鷹飛來攻擊你。這民的言語，你不懂得。
The LORD shall bring a nation against thee from far, from the end of the earth, as swift as the eagle flieth; a nation whose tongue thou shalt not understand;

28:50    這民的面貌凶惡，不顧恤年老的，也不恩待年少的。
A nation of fierce countenance, which shall not regard the person of the old, nor shew favour to the young:

28:51    他們必吃你牲畜所下的和你地土所產的，直到你滅亡。你的五穀，新酒，和油，以及牛犢，羊羔，都不給你留下，直到將你滅絕。
And he shall eat the fruit of thy cattle, and the fruit of thy land, until thou be destroyed: which also shall not leave thee either corn, wine, or oil, or the increase of thy kine, or flocks of thy sheep, until he have destroyed thee.

28:52    他們必將你困在你各城裡，直到你所倚靠，高大堅固的城牆都被攻塌。他們必將你困在耶和華你神所賜你遍地的各城裡。
And he shall besiege thee in all thy gates, until thy high and fenced walls come down, wherein thou trustedst, throughout all thy land: and he shall besiege thee in all thy gates throughout all thy land, which the LORD thy God hath given thee.

28:53    你在仇敵圍困窘迫之中，必吃你本身所生的，就是耶和華你神所賜給你的兒女之肉。
And thou shalt eat the fruit of thine own body, the flesh of thy sons and of thy daughters, which the LORD thy God hath given thee, in the siege, and in the straitness, wherewith thine enemies shall distress thee:

28:54    你們中間，柔弱嬌嫩的人必惡眼看他弟兄和他懷中的妻，並他餘剩的兒女。
So that the man that is tender among you, and very delicate, his eye shall be evil toward his brother, and toward the wife of his bosom, and toward the remnant of his children which he shall leave:

28:55    甚至在你受仇敵圍困窘迫的城中，他要吃兒女的肉，不肯分一點給他的親人，因為他一無所剩。
So that he will not give to any of them of the flesh of his children whom he shall eat: because he hath nothing left him in the siege, and in the straitness, wherewith thine enemies shall distress thee in all thy gates.

28:56    你們中間，柔弱嬌嫩的婦人，是因嬌嫩柔弱不肯把腳踏地的，必惡眼看她懷中的丈夫和她的兒女。
The tender and delicate woman among you, which would not adventure to set the sole of her foot upon the ground for delicateness and tenderness, her eye shall be evil toward the husband of her bosom, and toward her son, and toward her daughter,

28:57    她兩腿中間出來的嬰孩與她所要生的兒女，她因缺乏一切就要在你受仇敵圍困窘迫的城中將他們暗暗地吃了。
And toward her young one that cometh out from between her feet, and toward her children which she shall bear: for she shall eat them for want of all things secretly in the siege and straitness, wherewith thine enemy shall distress thee in thy gates.

28:58    這書上所寫律法的一切話是叫你敬畏耶和華你神可榮可畏的名。
If thou wilt not observe to do all the words of this law that are written in this book, that thou mayest fear this glorious and fearful name, THE LORD THY GOD;

28:59    你若不謹守遵行，耶和華就必將奇災，就是至大至長的災，至重至久的病，加在你和你後裔的身上，
Then the LORD will make thy plagues wonderful, and the plagues of thy seed, even great plagues, and of long continuance, and sore sicknesses, and of long continuance.

28:60    也必使你所懼怕，埃及人的病都臨到你，貼在你身上，
Moreover he will bring upon thee all the diseases of Egypt, which thou wast afraid of; and they shall cleave unto thee.

28:61    又必將沒有寫在這律法書上的各樣疾病，災殃降在你身上，直到你滅亡。
Also every sickness, and every plague, which is not written in the book of this law, them will the LORD bring upon thee, until thou be destroyed.

28:62    你們先前雖然像天上的星那樣多，卻因不聽從耶和華你神的話，所剩的人數就稀少了。
And ye shall be left few in number, whereas ye were as the stars of heaven for multitude; because thou wouldest not obey the voice of the LORD thy God.

28:63    先前耶和華怎樣喜悅善待你們，使你們眾多，也要照樣喜悅毀滅你們，使你們滅亡。並且你們從所要進去得的地上必被拔除。
And it shall come to pass, that as the LORD rejoiced over you to do you good, and to multiply you; so the LORD will rejoice over you to destroy you, and to bring you to nought; and ye shall be plucked from off the land whither thou goest to possess it.

28:64    耶和華必使你們分散在萬民中，從地這邊到地那邊，你必在那裡事奉你和你列祖素不認識，木頭石頭的神。
And the LORD shall scatter thee among all people, from the one end of the earth even unto the other; and there thou shalt serve other gods, which neither thou nor thy fathers have known, even wood and stone.

28:65    在那些國中，你必不得安逸，也不得落腳之地。耶和華卻使你在那裡心中跳動，眼目失明，精神消耗。
And among these nations shalt thou find no ease, neither shall the sole of thy foot have rest: but the LORD shall give thee there a trembling heart, and failing of eyes, and sorrow of mind:

28:66    你的性命必懸懸無定。你晝夜恐懼，自料性命難保。
And thy life shall hang in doubt before thee; and thou shalt fear day and night, and shalt have none assurance of thy life:

28:67    你因心裡所恐懼的，眼中所看見的，早晨必說，巴不得到晚上才好。晚上必說，巴不得到早晨才好。
In the morning thou shalt say, Would God it were even! and at even thou shalt say, Would God it were morning! for the fear of thine heart wherewith thou shalt fear, and for the sight of thine eyes which thou shalt see.

28:68    耶和華必使你坐船回埃及去，走我曾告訴你不得再見的路。在那裡你必賣己身與仇敵作奴婢，卻無人買。
And the LORD shall bring thee into Egypt again with ships, by the way whereof I spake unto thee, Thou shalt see it no more again: and there ye shall be sold unto your enemies for bondmen and bondwomen, and no man shall buy you.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


29:1    這是耶和華在摩押地吩咐摩西與以色列人立約的話，是在他和他們於何烈山所立的約之外。
These are the words of the covenant, which the LORD commanded Moses to make with the children of Israel in the land of Moab, beside the covenant which he made with them in Horeb.

29:2    摩西召了以色列眾人來，對他們說，耶和華在埃及地，在你們眼前向法老和他眾臣僕，並他全地所行的一切事，你們都看見了，
And Moses called unto all Israel, and said unto them, Ye have seen all that the LORD did before your eyes in the land of Egypt unto Pharaoh, and unto all his servants, and unto all his land;

29:3    就是你親眼看見的大試驗和神蹟，並那些大奇事。
The great temptations which thine eyes have seen, the signs, and those great miracles:

29:4    但耶和華到今日沒有使你們心能明白，眼能看見，耳能聽見。
Yet the LORD hath not given you an heart to perceive, and eyes to see, and ears to hear, unto this day.

29:5    我領你們在曠野四十年，你們身上的衣服並沒有穿破，腳上的鞋也沒有穿壞。
And I have led you forty years in the wilderness: your clothes are not waxen old upon you, and thy shoe is not waxen old upon thy foot.

29:6    你們沒有吃餅，也沒有喝清酒濃酒。這要使你們知道，耶和華是你們的神。
Ye have not eaten bread, neither have ye drunk wine or strong drink: that ye might know that I am the LORD your God.

29:7    你們來到這地方，希實本王西巨集，巴珊王噩都出來與我們交戰，我們就擊殺了他們，
And when ye came unto this place, Sihon the king of Heshbon, and Og the king of Bashan, came out against us unto battle, and we smote them:

29:8    取了他們的地給流便支派，迦得支派，和瑪拿西半支派為業。
And we took their land, and gave it for an inheritance unto the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to the half tribe of Manasseh.

29:9    所以你們要謹守遵行這約的話，好叫你們在一切所行的事上亨通。
Keep therefore the words of this covenant, and do them, that ye may prosper in all that ye do.

29:10    *
Ye stand this day all of you before the LORD your God; your captains of your tribes, your elders, and your officers, with all the men of Israel,

29:11    今日你們的首領，族長（原文作支派），長老，官長，以色列的男丁，你們的妻子，兒女和營中寄居的，以及為你們劈柴挑水的人，都站在耶和華你們的神面前，
Your little ones, your wives, and thy stranger that is in thy camp, from the hewer of thy wood unto the drawer of thy water:

29:12    為要你順從耶和華你神今日與你所立的約，向你所起的誓。
That thou shouldest enter into covenant with the LORD thy God, and into his oath, which the LORD thy God maketh with thee this day:

29:13    這樣，他要照他向你所應許的話，又向你列祖亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各所起的誓，今日立你作他的子民，他作你的神。
That he may establish thee to day for a people unto himself, and that he may be unto thee a God, as he hath said unto thee, and as he hath sworn unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob.

29:14    我不但與你們立這約，起這誓，
Neither with you only do I make this covenant and this oath;

29:15    凡與我們一同站在耶和華我們神面前的，並今日不在我們這裡的人，我也與他們立這約，起這誓。
But with him that standeth here with us this day before the LORD our God, and also with him that is not here with us this day:

29:16    （我們曾住過埃及地，也從列國經過。這是你們知道的。
(For ye know how we have dwelt in the land of Egypt; and how we came through the nations which ye passed by;

29:17    你們也看見他們中間可憎之物，並他們木，石，金，銀的偶像。）
And ye have seen their abominations, and their idols, wood and stone, silver and gold, which were among them:)

29:18    惟恐你們中間，或男或女，或族長或支派長，今日心裡偏離耶和華我們的神，去事奉那些國的神。又怕你們中間有惡根生出苦菜和茵？？來，
Lest there should be among you man, or woman, or family, or tribe, whose heart turneth away this day from the LORD our God, to go and serve the gods of these nations; lest there should be among you a root that beareth gall and wormwood;

29:19    聽見這咒詛的話，心裡仍是自誇說，我雖然行事心裡頑梗，連累眾人，卻還是平安。
And it come to pass, when he heareth the words of this curse, that he bless himself in his heart, saying, I shall have peace, though I walk in the imagination of mine heart, to add drunkenness to thirst:

29:20    耶和華必不饒恕他。耶和華的怒氣與憤恨要向他發作，如煙冒出，將這書上所寫的一切咒詛都加在他身上。耶和華又要從天下塗抹他的名，
The LORD will not spare him, but then the anger of the LORD and his jealousy shall smoke against that man, and all the curses that are written in this book shall lie upon him, and the LORD shall blot out his name from under heaven.

29:21    也必照著寫在律法書上，約中的一切咒詛將他從以色列眾支派中分別出來，使他受禍。
And the LORD shall separate him unto evil out of all the tribes of Israel, according to all the curses of the covenant that are written in this book of the law:

29:22    你們的後代，就是以後興起來的子孫，和遠方來的外人，看見這地的災殃，並耶和華所降與這地的疾病，
So that the generation to come of your children that shall rise up after you, and the stranger that shall come from a far land, shall say, when they see the plagues of that land, and the sicknesses which the LORD hath laid upon it;

29:23    又看見遍地有硫磺，有鹽滷，有火跡，沒有耕種，沒有出產，連草都不生長，好像耶和華在忿怒中所傾覆的所多瑪，蛾摩拉，押瑪，洗扁一樣。
And that the whole land thereof is brimstone, and salt, and burning, that it is not sown, nor beareth, nor any grass groweth therein, like the overthrow of Sodom, and Gomorrah, Admah, and Zeboim, which the LORD overthrew in his anger, and in his wrath:

29:24    所看見的人，連萬國人，都必問說，耶和華為何向此地這樣行呢，這樣大發烈怒是什麼意思呢，
Even all nations shall say, Wherefore hath the LORD done thus unto this land? what meaneth the heat of this great anger?

29:25    人必回答說，是因這地的人離棄了耶和華他們列祖的神，領他們出埃及地的時候與他們所立的約，
Then men shall say, Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD God of their fathers, which he made with them when he brought them forth out of the land of Egypt:

29:26    去事奉敬拜素不認識的別神，是耶和華所未曾給他們安排的。
For they went and served other gods, and worshipped them, gods whom they knew not, and whom he had not given unto them:

29:27    所以耶和華的怒氣向這地發作，將這書上所寫的一切咒詛都降在這地上。
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against this land, to bring upon it all the curses that are written in this book:

29:28    耶和華在怒氣，忿怒，大惱恨中將他們從本地拔出來，扔在別的地上，像今日一樣。
And the LORD rooted them out of their land in anger, and in wrath, and in great indignation, and cast them into another land, as it is this day.

29:29    隱祕的事是屬耶和華我們神的。惟有明顯的事是永遠屬我們和我們子孫的，好叫我們遵行這律法上的一切話。
The secret things belong unto the LORD our God: but those things which are revealed belong unto us and to our children for ever, that we may do all the words of this law.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


30:1    我所陳明在你面前的這一切咒詛都臨到你身上。你在耶和華你神追趕你到的萬國中必心裡追念祝福的話。
And it shall come to pass, when all these things are come upon thee, the blessing and the curse, which I have set before thee, and thou shalt call them to mind among all the nations, whither the LORD thy God hath driven thee,

30:2    你和你的子孫若盡心儘性歸向耶和華你的神，照著我今日一切所吩咐的聽從他的話。
And shalt return unto the LORD thy God, and shalt obey his voice according to all that I command thee this day, thou and thy children, with all thine heart, and with all thy soul;

30:3    那時，耶和華你的神必憐恤你，救回你這被擄的子民。耶和華你的神要回轉過來，從分散你到的萬民中將你招聚回來。
That then the LORD thy God will turn thy captivity, and have compassion upon thee, and will return and gather thee from all the nations, whither the LORD thy God hath scattered thee.

30:4    你被趕散的人，就是在天涯的，耶和華你的神也必從那裡將你招聚回來。
If any of thine be driven out unto the outmost parts of heaven, from thence will the LORD thy God gather thee, and from thence will he fetch thee:

30:5    耶和華你的神必領你進入你列祖所得的地，使你可以得著。又必善待你，使你的人數比你列祖眾多。
And the LORD thy God will bring thee into the land which thy fathers possessed, and thou shalt possess it; and he will do thee good, and multiply thee above thy fathers.

30:6    耶和華你神必將你心裡和你後裔心裡的汙穢除掉，好叫你盡心儘性愛耶和華你的神，使你可以存活。
And the LORD thy God will circumcise thine heart, and the heart of thy seed, to love the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul, that thou mayest live.

30:7    耶和華你的神必將這一切咒詛加在你仇敵和恨惡你，逼迫你的人身上。
And the LORD thy God will put all these curses upon thine enemies, and on them that hate thee, which persecuted thee.

30:8    你必歸回，聽從耶和華的話，遵行他的一切誡命，就是我今日所吩咐你的。
And thou shalt return and obey the voice of the LORD, and do all his commandments which I command thee this day.

30:9    *
And the LORD thy God will make thee plenteous in every work of thine hand, in the fruit of thy body, and in the fruit of thy cattle, and in the fruit of thy land, for good: for the LORD will again rejoice over thee for good, as he rejoiced over thy fathers:



30:10    你若聽從耶和華你神的話，謹守這律法書上所寫的誡命，律例，又盡心儘性歸向耶和華你的神，他必使你手裡所辦的一切事，並你身所生的，牲畜所下的，地土所產的，都綽綽有餘，因為耶和華必在喜悅你，降福與你，相從前喜悅你列祖一樣。
If thou shalt hearken unto the voice of the LORD thy God, to keep his commandments and his statutes which are written in this book of the law, and if thou turn unto the LORD thy God with all thine heart, and with all thy soul.

30:11    我今日所吩咐你的誡命不是你難行的，也不是離你遠的。
For this commandment which I command thee this day, it is not hidden from thee, neither is it far off.

30:12    不是在天上，使你說，誰替我們上天取下來，使我們聽見可以遵行呢，
It is not in heaven, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go up for us to heaven, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it?

30:13    也不是在海外，使你說，誰替我們過海取了來，使我們聽見可以遵行呢，
Neither is it beyond the sea, that thou shouldest say, Who shall go over the sea for us, and bring it unto us, that we may hear it, and do it?

30:14    這話卻離你甚近，就在你口中，在你心裡，使你可以遵行。
But the word is very nigh unto thee, in thy mouth, and in thy heart, that thou mayest do it.

30:15    看哪，我今日將生與福，死與禍，陳明在你面前。
See, I have set before thee this day life and good, and death and evil;

30:16    吩咐你愛耶和華你的神，遵行他的道，謹守他的誡命，律例，典章，使你可以存活，人數增多，耶和華你神就必在你所要進去得為業的地上賜福與你。
In that I command thee this day to love the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, and to keep his commandments and his statutes and his judgments, that thou mayest live and multiply: and the LORD thy God shall bless thee in the land whither thou goest to possess it.

30:17    倘若你心裡偏離，不肯聽從，卻被勾引去敬拜事奉別神，
But if thine heart turn away, so that thou wilt not hear, but shalt be drawn away, and worship other gods, and serve them;

30:18    我今日明明告訴你們，你們必要滅亡。在你過約旦河，進去得為業的地上，你的日子必不長久。
I denounce unto you this day, that ye shall surely perish, and that ye shall not prolong your days upon the land, whither thou passest over Jordan to go to possess it.

30:19    我今日呼天喚地向你作見證。我將生死禍福陳明在你面前，所以你要揀選生命，使你和你的後裔都得存活。
I call heaven and earth to record this day against you, that I have set before you life and death, blessing and cursing: therefore choose life, that both thou and thy seed may live:

30:20    且愛耶和華你的神，聽從他的話，專靠他。因為他是你的生命，你的日子長久也在乎他。這樣，你就可以在耶和華向你列祖亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各起誓應許所賜的地上居住。
That thou mayest love the LORD thy God, and that thou mayest obey his voice, and that thou mayest cleave unto him: for he is thy life, and the length of thy days: that thou mayest dwell in the land which the LORD sware unto thy fathers, to Abraham, to Isaac, and to Jacob, to give them.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


31:1    摩西去告訴以色列眾人
And Moses went and spake these words unto all Israel.

31:2    說，我現在一百二十歲了，不能照常出入。耶和華也曾對我說，你必不得過這約旦河。
And he said unto them, I am an hundred and twenty years old this day; I can no more go out and come in: also the LORD hath said unto me, Thou shalt not go over this Jordan.

31:3    耶和華你們的神必引導你們過去，將這些國民在你們面前滅絕，你們就得他們的地。約書亞必引導你們過去，正如耶和華所說的。
The LORD thy God, he will go over before thee, and he will destroy these nations from before thee, and thou shalt possess them: and Joshua, he shall go over before thee, as the LORD hath said.

31:4    耶和華必待他們，如同從前待他所滅絕的亞摩利二王西巨集與噩以及他們的國一樣。
And the LORD shall do unto them as he did to Sihon and to Og, kings of the Amorites, and unto the land of them, whom he destroyed.

31:5    耶和華必將他們交給你們。你們要照我所吩咐的一切命令待他們。
And the LORD shall give them up before your face, that ye may do unto them according unto all the commandments which I have commanded you.

31:6    你們當剛強壯膽，不要害怕，也不要畏懼他們，因為耶和華你的神和你同去。他必不撇下你，也不丟棄你。
Be strong and of a good courage, fear not, nor be afraid of them: for the LORD thy God, he it is that doth go with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.

31:7    摩西召了約書亞來，在以色列眾人眼前對他說，你當剛強壯膽。因為，你要和這百姓一同進入耶和華向他們列祖起誓應許所賜之地。你也要使他們承受那地為業。
And Moses called unto Joshua, and said unto him in the sight of all Israel, Be strong and of a good courage: for thou must go with this people unto the land which the LORD hath sworn unto their fathers to give them; and thou shalt cause them to inherit it.

31:8    耶和華必在你前面行。他必與你同在，必不撇下你，也不丟棄你。不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。
And the LORD, he it is that doth go before thee; he will be with thee, he will not fail thee, neither forsake thee: fear not, neither be dismayed.

31:9    摩西將這律法寫出來，交給抬耶和華約櫃的祭司利未子孫和以色列的眾長老。
And Moses wrote this law, and delivered it unto the priests the sons of Levi, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and unto all the elders of Israel.

31:10    摩西吩咐他們說，每逢七年的末一年，就在豁免年的定期住棚節的時候，
And Moses commanded them, saying, At the end of every seven years, in the solemnity of the year of release, in the feast of tabernacles,

31:11    以色列眾人來到耶和華你神所選擇的地方朝見他。那時，你要在以色列眾人面前將這律法念給他們聽。
When all Israel is come to appear before the LORD thy God in the place which he shall choose, thou shalt read this law before all Israel in their hearing.

31:12    要招聚他們男，女，孩子，並城裡寄居的，使他們聽，使他們學習，好敬畏耶和華你們的神，謹守，遵行這律法的一切話，
Gather the people together, men, and women, and children, and thy stranger that is within thy gates, that they may hear, and that they may learn, and fear the LORD your God, and observe to do all the words of this law:

31:13    也使他們未曾曉得這律法的兒女得以聽見，學習敬畏耶和華你們的神，在你們過約旦河要得為業之地，存活的日子，常常這樣行。
And that their children, which have not known any thing, may hear, and learn to fear the LORD your God, as long as ye live in the land whither ye go over Jordan to possess it.

31:14    耶和華對摩西說，你的死期臨近了。要召約書亞來，你們二人站在會幕裡，我好囑咐他。於是摩西和約書亞去站在會幕裡。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Behold, thy days approach that thou must die: call Joshua, and present yourselves in the tabernacle of the congregation, that I may give him a charge. And Moses and Joshua went, and presented themselves in the tabernacle of the congregation.

31:15    耶和華在會幕裡雲柱中顯現，雲柱停在會幕門以上。
And the LORD appeared in the tabernacle in a pillar of a cloud: and the pillar of the cloud stood over the door of the tabernacle.

31:16    耶和華又對摩西說，你必和你列祖同睡。這百姓要起來，在他們所要去的地上，在那地的人中，隨從外邦神行邪淫，離棄我，違揹我與他們所立的約。
And the LORD said unto Moses, Behold, thou shalt sleep with thy fathers; and this people will rise up, and go a whoring after the gods of the strangers of the land, whither they go to be among them, and will forsake me, and break my covenant which I have made with them.

31:17    那時，我的怒氣必向他們發作。我也必離棄他們，掩面不顧他們，以致他們被吞滅，並有許多的禍患災難臨到他們。那日他們必說，這些禍患臨到我們，豈不是因我們的神不在我們中間嗎？
Then my anger shall be kindled against them in that day, and I will forsake them, and I will hide my face from them, and they shall be devoured, and many evils and troubles shall befall them; so that they will say in that day, Are not these evils come upon us, because our God is not among us?

31:18    那時，因他們偏向別神所行的一切惡，我必定掩面不顧他們。
And I will surely hide my face in that day for all the evils which they shall have wrought, in that they are turned unto other gods.

31:19    現在你要寫一篇歌，教導以色列人，傳給他們，使這歌見證他們的不是。
Now therefore write ye this song for you, and teach it the children of Israel: put it in their mouths, that this song may be a witness for me against the children of Israel.

31:20    因為我將他們領進我向他們列祖起誓應許那流奶與蜜之地，他們在那裡吃得飽足，身體肥胖，就必偏向別神，事奉他們，藐視我，背棄我的約。
For when I shall have brought them into the land which I sware unto their fathers, that floweth with milk and honey; and they shall have eaten and filled themselves, and waxen fat; then will they turn unto other gods, and serve them, and provoke me, and break my covenant.

31:21    那時，有許多禍患災難臨到他們，這歌必在他們面前作見證，他們後!裔的口中必唸誦不忘。我未領他們到我所起誓應許之地以先，他們所懷的意念我都知道了。
And it shall come to pass, when many evils and troubles are befallen them, that this song shall testify against them as a witness; for it shall not be forgotten out of the mouths of their seed: for I know their imagination which they go about, even now, before I have brought them into the land which I sware.

31:22    當日摩西就寫了一篇歌，教導以色列人。
Moses therefore wrote this song the same day, and taught it the children of Israel.

31:23    耶和華囑咐嫩的兒子約書亞說，你當剛強壯膽，因為你必領以色列人進我所起誓應許他們的地。我必與你同在。
And he gave Joshua the son of Nun a charge, and said, Be strong and of a good courage: for thou shalt bring the children of Israel into the land which I sware unto them: and I will be with thee.

31:24    摩西將這律法的話寫在書上，及至寫完了，
And it came to pass, when Moses had made an end of writing the words of this law in a book, until they were finished,

31:25    就吩咐抬耶和華約櫃的利未人說，
That Moses commanded the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, saying,

31:26    將這律法書放在耶和華你們神的約櫃旁，可以在那裡見證以色列人的不是。
Take this book of the law, and put it in the side of the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, that it may be there for a witness against thee.

31:27    因為我知道你們是悖逆的，是硬著頸項的。我今日還活著與你們同在，你們尚且悖逆耶和華，何況我死後呢，
For I know thy rebellion, and thy stiff neck: behold, while I am yet alive with you this day, ye have been rebellious against the LORD; and how much more after my death?

31:28    你們要將你們支派的眾長老和官長都招聚了來，我好將這些話說與他們聽，並呼天喚地見證他們的不是。
Gather unto me all the elders of your tribes, and your officers, that I may speak these words in their ears, and call heaven and earth to record against them.

31:29    我知道我死後，你們必全然敗壞，偏離我所吩咐你們的道，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，以手所作的惹他發怒。日後必有禍患臨到你們。
For I know that after my death ye will utterly corrupt yourselves, and turn aside from the way which I have commanded you; and evil will befall you in the latter days; because ye will do evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger through the work of your hands.

31:30    摩西將這一篇歌的話都說與以色列全會眾聽。
And Moses spake in the ears of all the congregation of Israel the words of this song, until they were ended.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


32:1    諸天哪，側耳，我要說話。願地也聽我口中的言語。
Give ear, O ye heavens, and I will speak; and hear, O earth, the words of my mouth.

32:2    我的教訓要淋漓如雨。我的言語要滴落如露，如細雨降在嫩草上，如甘霖降在菜蔬中。
My doctrine shall drop as the rain, my speech shall distil as the dew, as the small rain upon the tender herb, and as the showers upon the grass:

32:3    我要宣告耶和華的名。你們要將大德歸與我們的神。
Because I will publish the name of the LORD: ascribe ye greatness unto our God.

32:4    他是磐石，他的作為完全，他所行的無不公平，是誠實無偽的神。又公義，又正直。
He is the Rock, his work is perfect: for all his ways are judgment: a God of truth and without iniquity, just and right is he.

32:5    這乖僻彎曲的世代向他行事邪僻。有這弊病就不是他的兒女。
They have corrupted themselves, their spot is not the spot of his children: they are a perverse and crooked generation.

32:6    愚昧無知的民哪，你們這樣報答耶和華嗎，他豈不是你的父，將你買來的嗎，他是製造你，建立你的。
Do ye thus requite the LORD, O foolish people and unwise? is not he thy father that hath bought thee? hath he not made thee, and established thee?

32:7    你當追想上古之日，思念歷代之年。問你的父親，他必指示你。問你的長者，他必告訴你。
Remember the days of old, consider the years of many generations: ask thy father, and he will shew thee; thy elders, and they will tell thee.

32:8    至高者將地業賜給列邦，將世人分開，就照以色列人的數目立定萬民的疆界。
When the Most High divided to the nations their inheritance, when he separated the sons of Adam, he set the bounds of the people according to the number of the children of Israel.

32:9    耶和華的分本是他的百姓。他的產業本是雅各。
For the LORD's portion is his people; Jacob is the lot of his inheritance.

32:10    耶和華遇見他在曠野荒涼野獸吼叫之地，就環繞他，看顧他，保護他，如同保護眼中的瞳人。
He found him in a desert land, and in the waste howling wilderness; he led him about, he instructed him, he kept him as the apple of his eye.

32:11    又如鷹攪動巢窩，在雛鷹以上兩翅扇展，接取雛鷹，背在兩翼之上。
As an eagle stirreth up her nest, fluttereth over her young, spreadeth abroad her wings, taketh them, beareth them on her wings:

32:12    這樣，耶和華獨自引導他，並無外邦神與他同在。
So the LORD alone did lead him, and there was no strange god with him.

32:13    耶和華使他乘駕地的高處，得吃田間的土產。又使他從磐石中咂蜜，從堅石中吸油。
He made him ride on the high places of the earth, that he might eat the increase of the fields; and he made him to suck honey out of the rock, and oil out of the flinty rock;

32:14    也吃牛的奶油，羊的奶，羊羔的脂油，巴珊所出的公綿羊和山羊，與上好的麥子，也喝葡萄汁釀的酒。
Butter of kine, and milk of sheep, with fat of lambs, and rams of the breed of Bashan, and goats, with the fat of kidneys of wheat; and thou didst drink the pure blood of the grape.

32:15    但耶書侖漸漸肥胖，粗壯，光潤，踢跳奔跑，便離棄造他的神，輕看救他的磐石。
But Jeshurun waxed fat, and kicked: thou art waxen fat, thou art grown thick, thou art covered with fatness; then he forsook God which made him, and lightly esteemed the Rock of his salvation.

32:16    敬拜別神，觸動神的憤恨，行可憎惡的事，惹了他的怒氣。
They provoked him to jealousy with strange gods, with abominations provoked they him to anger.

32:17    所祭祀的鬼魔並非真神，乃是素不認識的神，是近來新興的，是你列祖所不畏懼的
They sacrificed unto devils, not to God; to gods whom they knew not, to new gods that came newly up, whom your fathers feared not.

32:18    你輕忽生你的磐石，忘記產你的神。
Of the Rock that begat thee thou art unmindful, and hast forgotten God that formed thee.

32:19    耶和華看見他的兒女惹動他，就厭惡他們，
And when the LORD saw it, he abhorred them, because of the provoking of his sons, and of his daughters.

32:20    說，我要向他們掩面，看他們的結局如何。他們本是極乖僻的族類，心中無誠實的兒女。
And he said, I will hide my face from them, I will see what their end shall be: for they are a very froward generation, children in whom is no faith.

32:21    他們以那不算為神的觸動我的憤恨，以虛無的神惹了我的怒氣。我也要以那不成子民的觸動他們的憤恨，以愚昧的國民惹了他們的怒氣。
They have moved me to jealousy with that which is not God; they have provoked me to anger with their vanities: and I will move them to jealousy with those which are not a people; I will provoke them to anger with a foolish nation.

32:22    因為在我怒中有火燒起，直燒到極深的陰間，把地和地的出產盡都焚燒，山的根基也燒著了。
For a fire is kindled in mine anger, and shall burn unto the lowest hell, and shall consume the earth with her increase, and set on fire the foundations of the mountains.

32:23    我要將禍患堆在他們身上，把我的箭向他們射盡。
I will heap mischiefs upon them; I will spend mine arrows upon them.

32:24    他們必因飢餓消瘦，被炎熱苦毒吞滅。我要打發野獸用牙齒咬他們，並土中腹行的，用毒氣害他們。
They shall be burnt with hunger, and devoured with burning heat, and with bitter destruction: I will also send the teeth of beasts upon them, with the poison of serpents of the dust.

32:25    外頭有刀劍，內室有驚恐，使人喪亡，使少男，童女，吃奶的，白髮的，盡都滅絕。
The sword without, and terror within, shall destroy both the young man and the virgin, the suckling also with the man of gray hairs.

32:26    我說，我必將他們分散遠方，使他們的名號從人間除滅。
I said, I would scatter them into corners, I would make the remembrance of them to cease from among men:

32:27    惟恐仇敵惹動我，只怕敵人錯看，說，是我們手的能力，並非耶和華所行的。
Were it not that I feared the wrath of the enemy, lest their adversaries should behave themselves strangely, and lest they should say, Our hand is high, and the LORD hath not done all this.

32:28    因為以色列民毫無計謀，心中沒有聰明。
For they are a nation void of counsel, neither is there any understanding in them.

32:29    惟願他們有智慧，能明白這事，肯思念他們的結局。
O that they were wise, that they understood this, that they would consider their latter end!

32:30    若不是他們的磐石賣了他們，若不是耶和華交出他們，一人焉能追趕他們千人，二人焉能使萬人逃跑呢，
How should one chase a thousand, and two put ten thousand to flight, except their Rock had sold them, and the LORD had shut them up?

32:31    據我們的仇敵自己斷定，他們的磐石不如我們的磐石。
For their rock is not as our Rock, even our enemies themselves being judges.

32:32    他們的葡萄樹是所多瑪的葡萄樹，蛾摩拉田園所生的。他們的葡萄是毒葡萄，全掛都是苦的。
For their vine is of the vine of Sodom, and of the fields of Gomorrah: their grapes are grapes of gall, their clusters are bitter:

32:33    他們的酒是大蛇的毒氣，是虺蛇殘害的惡毒。
Their wine is the poison of dragons, and the cruel venom of asps.

32:34    這不都是積蓄在我這裡，封鎖在我府庫中嗎，
Is not this laid up in store with me, and sealed up among my treasures?

32:35    他們失腳的時候，伸冤報應在我。因他們遭災的日子近了。那要臨在他們身上的必速速來到。
To me belongeth vengeance, and recompence; their foot shall slide in due time: for the day of their calamity is at hand, and the things that shall come upon them make haste.

32:36    耶和華見他百姓毫無能力，無論困住的，自由的都沒有剩下，就必為他們伸冤，為他的僕人後悔。
For the LORD shall judge his people, and repent himself for his servants, when he seeth that their power is gone, and there is none shut up, or left.

32:37    他必說，他們的神，他們所投靠的磐石，
And he shall say, Where are their gods, their rock in whom they trusted,

32:38    就是向來吃他們祭牲的脂油，喝他們奠祭之酒的，在哪裡呢，他可以興起幫助你們，護衛你們。
Which did eat the fat of their sacrifices, and drank the wine of their drink offerings? let them rise up and help you, and be your protection.

32:39    你們如今要知道，我，惟有我是神。在我以外並無別神。我使人死，我使人活。我損傷，我也醫治，並無人能從我手中救出來。
See now that I, even I, am he, and there is no god with me: I kill, and I make alive; I wound, and I heal: neither is there any that can deliver out of my hand.

32:40    我向天舉手說，我憑我的永生起誓，
For I lift up my hand to heaven, and say, I live for ever.

32:41    我若磨我閃亮的刀，手掌審判之權，就必報復我的敵人，報應恨我的人。
If I whet my glittering sword, and mine hand take hold on judgment; I will render vengeance to mine enemies, and will reward them that hate me.

32:42    我要使我的箭飲血飲醉，就是被殺被擄之人的血。我的刀要吃肉，乃是仇敵中首領之頭的肉。
I will make mine arrows drunk with blood, and my sword shall devour flesh; and that with the blood of the slain and of the captives, from the beginning of revenges upon the enemy.

32:43    你們外邦人當與主的百姓一同歡呼。因他要伸他僕人流血的冤，報應他的敵人，潔淨他的地，救贖他的百姓。
Rejoice, O ye nations, with his people: for he will avenge the blood of his servants, and will render vengeance to his adversaries, and will be merciful unto his land, and to his people.

32:44    摩西和嫩的兒子約書亞去將這歌的一切話說給百姓聽。
And Moses came and spake all the words of this song in the ears of the people, he, and Hoshea the son of Nun.

32:45    摩西向以色列眾人說完了這一切的話，
And Moses made an end of speaking all these words to all Israel:

32:46    又說，我今日所警教你們的，你們都要放在心上。要吩咐你們的子孫謹守遵行這律法上的話。
And he said unto them, Set your hearts unto all the words which I testify among you this day, which ye shall command your children to observe to do, all the words of this law.

32:47    因為這不是虛空，與你們無關的事，乃是你們的生命。在你們過約旦河要得為業的地上必因這事日子得以長久。
For it is not a vain thing for you; because it is your life: and through this thing ye shall prolong your days in the land, whither ye go over Jordan to possess it.

32:48    當日，耶和華吩咐摩西說，
And the LORD spake unto Moses that selfsame day, saying,

32:49    你上這亞巴琳山中的尼波山去，在摩押地與耶利哥相對，觀看我所要賜給以色列人為業的迦南地。
Get thee up into this mountain Abarim, unto mount Nebo, which is in the land of Moab, that is over against Jericho; and behold the land of Canaan, which I give unto the children of Israel for a possession:

32:50    你必死在你所登的山上，歸你列祖（原文作本民）去，像你哥哥亞倫死在何珥山上，歸他的列祖一樣。
And die in the mount whither thou goest up, and be gathered unto thy people; as Aaron thy brother died in mount Hor, and was gathered unto his people:

32:51    因為你們在尋的曠野，加低斯的米利巴水，在以色列人中沒有尊我為聖，得罪了我。
Because ye trespassed against me among the children of Israel at the waters of MeribahKadesh, in the wilderness of Zin; because ye sanctified me not in the midst of the children of Israel.

32:52    我所賜給以色列人的地，你可以遠遠地觀看，卻不得進去。
Yet thou shalt see the land before thee; but thou shalt not go thither unto the land which I give the children of Israel.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


33:1    以下是神人摩西在未死之先為以色列人所祝的福，
And this is the blessing, wherewith Moses the man of God blessed the children of Israel before his death.

33:2    他說，耶和華從西奈而來，從西珥向他們顯現，從巴蘭山發出光輝，從萬萬聖者中來臨，從他右手為百姓傳出烈火的律法。
And he said, The LORD came from Sinai, and rose up from Seir unto them; he shined forth from mount Paran, and he came with ten thousands of saints: from his right hand went a fiery law for them.

33:3    他疼愛百姓。眾聖徒都在他手中。他們坐在他的腳下，領受他的言語。
Yea, he loved the people; all his saints are in thy hand: and they sat down at thy feet; every one shall receive of thy words.

33:4    摩西將律法傳給我們，作為雅各會眾的產業。
Moses commanded us a law, even the inheritance of the congregation of Jacob.

33:5    百姓的眾首領，以色列的各支派，一同聚會的時候，耶和華（原文作他）在耶書侖中為王。
And he was king in Jeshurun, when the heads of the people and the tribes of Israel were gathered together.

33:6    願流便存活，不致死亡。願他人數不致稀少。
Let Reuben live, and not die; and let not his men be few.

33:7    為猶大祝福說，求耶和華俯聽猶大的聲音，引導他歸於本族。他曾用手為自己爭戰，你必幫助他攻擊敵人。
And this is the blessing of Judah: and he said, Hear, LORD, the voice of Judah, and bring him unto his people: let his hands be sufficient for him; and be thou an help to him from his enemies.

33:8    論利未說，耶和華阿，你的土明和烏陵都在你的虔誠人那裡。你在瑪撒曾試驗他，在米利巴水與他爭論。
And of Levi he said, Let thy Thummim and thy Urim be with thy holy one, whom thou didst prove at Massah, and with whom thou didst strive at the waters of Meribah;

33:9    他論自己的父母說，我未曾看見。他也不承認弟兄，也不認識自己的兒女。這是因利未人遵行你的話，謹守你的約。
Who said unto his father and to his mother, I have not seen him; neither did he acknowledge his brethren, nor knew his own children: for they have observed thy word, and kept thy covenant.

33:10    他們要將你的典章教訓雅各，將你的律法教訓以色列。他們要把香焚在你面前，把全牲的燔祭獻在你的壇上。
They shall teach Jacob thy judgments, and Israel thy law: they shall put incense before thee, and whole burnt sacrifice upon thine altar.

33:11    求耶和華降福在他的財物上，悅納他手裡所辦的事。那些起來攻擊他和恨惡他的人，願你刺透他們的腰，使他們不得再起來。
Bless, LORD, his substance, and accept the work of his hands: smite through the loins of them that rise against him, and of them that hate him, that they rise not again.

33:12    論便雅憫說，耶和華所親愛的必同耶和華安然居住。耶和華終日遮蔽他，也住在他兩肩之中。
And of Benjamin he said, The beloved of the LORD shall dwell in safety by him; and the Lord shall cover him all the day long, and he shall dwell between his shoulders.

33:13    論約瑟說，願他的地蒙耶和華賜福，得天上的寶物，甘露，以及地裡所藏的泉水。
And of Joseph he said, Blessed of the LORD be his land, for the precious things of heaven, for the dew, and for the deep that coucheth beneath,

33:14    得太陽所晒熟的美果，月亮所養成的寶物。
And for the precious fruits brought forth by the sun, and for the precious things put forth by the moon,

33:15    得上古之山的至寶，永世之嶺的寶物。
And for the chief things of the ancient mountains, and for the precious things of the lasting hills,

33:16    得地和其中所充滿的寶物，並住荊棘中上主的喜悅。願這些福都歸於約瑟的頭上，歸於那與弟兄迥別之人的頂上。
And for the precious things of the earth and fulness thereof, and for the good will of him that dwelt in the bush: let the blessing come upon the head of Joseph, and upon the top of the head of him that was separated from his brethren.

33:17    他為牛群中頭生的，有威嚴。他的角是野牛的角，用以牴觸萬邦，直到地極。這角是以法蓮的萬萬，瑪拿西的千千。
His glory is like the firstling of his bullock, and his horns are like the horns of unicorns: with them he shall push the people together to the ends of the earth: and they are the ten thousands of Ephraim, and they are the thousands of Manasseh.

33:18    論西布倫說，西布倫哪，你出外可以歡喜。以薩迦阿，在你帳棚裡可以快樂。
And of Zebulun he said, Rejoice, Zebulun, in thy going out; and, Issachar, in thy tents.

33:19    他們要將列邦召到山上，在那裡獻公義的祭。因為他們要吸取海里的豐富，並沙中所藏的珍寶。
They shall call the people unto the mountain; there they shall offer sacrifices of righteousness: for they shall suck of the abundance of the seas, and of treasures hid in the sand.

33:20    論迦得說，使迦得擴張的應當稱頌。迦得住如母獅。他撕裂膀臂，連頭頂也撕裂。
And of Gad he said, Blessed be he that enlargeth Gad: he dwelleth as a lion, and teareth the arm with the crown of the head.

33:21    他為自己選擇頭一段地，因在那裡有設立律法者的分存留。他與百姓的首領同來。他施行耶和華的公義和耶和華與以色列所立的典章。
And he provided the first part for himself, because there, in a portion of the lawgiver, was he seated; and he came with the heads of the people, he executed the justice of the LORD, and his judgments with Israel.

33:22    論但說，但為小獅子，從巴珊跳出來。
And of Dan he said, Dan is a lion's whelp: he shall leap from Bashan.

33:23    論拿弗他利說，拿弗他利阿，你足沾恩惠，滿得耶和華的福，可以得西方和南方為業。
And of Naphtali he said, O Naphtali, satisfied with favour, and full with the blessing of the LORD: possess thou the west and the south.

33:24    論亞設說，願亞設享受多子的福樂，得他弟兄的喜悅，可以把腳蘸在油中。
And of Asher he said, Let Asher be blessed with children; let him be acceptable to his brethren, and let him dip his foot in oil.

33:25    你的門閂（或作鞋）是銅的，鐵的。你的日子如何，你的力量也必如何。
Thy shoes shall be iron and brass; and as thy days, so shall thy strength be.

33:26    耶書侖哪，沒有能比神的。他為幫助你，乘在天空，顯其威榮，駕行穹蒼。
There is none like unto the God of Jeshurun, who rideth upon the heaven in thy help, and in his excellency on the sky.

33:27    永生的神是你的居所。他永久的膀臂在你以下。他在你前面攆出仇敵，說，毀滅吧。
The eternal God is thy refuge, and underneath are the everlasting arms: and he shall thrust out the enemy from before thee; and shall say, Destroy them.

33:28    以色列安然居住。雅各的本源獨居五穀新酒之地。他的天也滴甘露。
Israel then shall dwell in safety alone: the fountain of Jacob shall be upon a land of corn and wine; also his heavens shall drop down dew.

33:29    以色列阿，你是有福的。誰像你這蒙耶和華所拯救的百姓呢，他是你的盾牌，幫助你，是你威榮的刀劍。你的仇敵必投降你。你必踏在他們的高處。
Happy art thou, O Israel: who is like unto thee, O people saved by the LORD, the shield of thy help, and who is the sword of thy excellency! and thine enemies shall be found liars unto thee; and thou shalt tread upon their high places.



舊約 -- 申命記(Deuteronomy) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 34 章 )    　


34:1    摩西從摩押平原登尼波山，上了那與耶利哥相對的毗斯迦山頂。耶和華把基列全地直到但，
And Moses went up from the plains of Moab unto the mountain of Nebo, to the top of Pisgah, that is over against Jericho. And the LORD shewed him all the land of Gilead, unto Dan,

34:2    拿弗他利全地，以法蓮，瑪拿西的地，猶大全地直到西海，
And all Naphtali, and the land of Ephraim, and Manasseh, and all the land of Judah, unto the utmost sea,

34:3    南地和棕樹城耶利哥的平原，直到瑣珥，都指給他看。
And the south, and the plain of the valley of Jericho, the city of palm trees, unto Zoar.

34:4    耶和華對他說，這就是我向亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各起誓應許之地。說，我必將這地賜給你的後裔。現在我使你眼睛看見了，你卻不得過到那裡去。
And the LORD said unto him, This is the land which I sware unto Abraham, unto Isaac, and unto Jacob, saying, I will give it unto thy seed: I have caused thee to see it with thine eyes, but thou shalt not go over thither.

34:5    於是，耶和華的僕人摩西死在摩押地，正如耶和華所說的。
So Moses the servant of the LORD died there in the land of Moab, according to the word of the LORD.

34:6    耶和華將他埋葬在摩押地，伯毗珥對面的谷中，只是到今日沒有人知道他的墳墓。
And he buried him in a valley in the land of Moab, over against Bethpeor: but no man knoweth of his sepulchre unto this day.

34:7    摩西死的時候年一百二十歲。眼目沒有昏花，精神沒有衰敗。
And Moses was an hundred and twenty years old when he died: his eye was not dim, nor his natural force abated.

34:8    以色列人在摩押平原為摩西哀哭了三十日，為摩西居喪哀哭的日子就滿了。
And the children of Israel wept for Moses in the plains of Moab thirty days: so the days of weeping and mourning for Moses were ended.

34:9    嫩的兒子約書亞。因為摩西曾按手在他頭上，就被智慧的靈充滿，以色列人便聽從他，照著耶和華吩咐摩西的行了。
And Joshua the son of Nun was full of the spirit of wisdom; for Moses had laid his hands upon him: and the children of Israel hearkened unto him, and did as the LORD commanded Moses.

34:10    以後以色列中再沒有興起先知像摩西的。他是耶和華面對面所認識的。
And there arose not a prophet since in Israel like unto Moses, whom the LORD knew face to face,

34:11    耶和華打發他在埃及地向法老和他的一切臣僕，並他的全地，行各樣神蹟奇事，
In all the signs and the wonders, which the LORD sent him to do in the land of Egypt to Pharaoh, and to all his servants, and to all his land,

34:12    又在以色列眾人眼前顯大能的手，行一切大而可畏的事。
And in all that mighty hand, and in all the great terror which Moses shewed in the sight of all Israel.




