舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


1:1    耶和華的僕人摩西死了以後，耶和華曉諭摩西的幫手，嫩的兒子約書亞，說，
Now after the death of Moses the servant of the LORD it came to pass, that the LORD spake unto Joshua the son of Nun, Moses' minister, saying,

1:2    我的僕人摩西死了。現在你要起來，和眾百姓過這約旦河，往我所要賜給以色列人的地去。
Moses my servant is dead; now therefore arise, go over this Jordan, thou, and all this people, unto the land which I do give to them, even to the children of Israel.

1:3    凡你們腳掌所踏之地，我都照著我所應許摩西的話賜給你們了。
Every place that the sole of your foot shall tread upon, that have I given unto you, as I said unto Moses.

1:4    從曠野，和這黎巴嫩，直到伯拉大河。赫人的全地。又到大海日落之處。都要作你們的境界。
From the wilderness and this Lebanon even unto the great river, the river Euphrates, all the land of the Hittites, and unto the great sea toward the going down of the sun, shall be your coast.

1:5    你平生的日子，必無一人能在你面前刪立得住。我怎樣與摩西同在，也必照樣與你同在。我必不撇下你，也不丟棄你。
There shall not any man be able to stand before thee all the days of thy life: as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee: I will not fail thee, nor forsake thee.

1:6    你當剛強壯膽。因為你必使這百姓承受那地為業，就是我向他們列祖起誓應許賜給他們的地。
Be strong and of a good courage: for unto this people shalt thou divide for an inheritance the land, which I sware unto their fathers to give them.

1:7    只要剛強，大大壯膽，謹守遵行我僕人摩西所吩咐你的一切律法，不可偏離左右，使你無論往哪裡去，都可以順利。
Only be thou strong and very courageous, that thou mayest observe to do according to all the law, which Moses my servant commanded thee: turn not from it to the right hand or to the left, that thou mayest prosper whithersoever thou goest.

1:8    這律法書不可離開你的口，總要晝夜思想，好使你謹守遵行這書上所寫的一切話。如此，你的道路就可以亨通，凡事順利。
This book of the law shall not depart out of thy mouth; but thou shalt meditate therein day and night, that thou mayest observe to do according to all that is written therein: for then thou shalt make thy way prosperous, and then thou shalt have good success.

1:9    我豈沒有吩咐你嗎。你當剛強壯膽。不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。因為你無論往哪裡去，耶和華你的神必與你同在。
Have not I commanded thee? Be strong and of a good courage; be not afraid, neither be thou dismayed: for the LORD thy God is with thee whithersoever thou goest.

1:10    於是，約書亞吩咐百姓的官長說，
Then Joshua commanded the officers of the people, saying,

1:11    你們要走遍營中，吩咐百姓說，當預備食物。因為三日之內你們要過這約旦河，進去得耶和華你們神賜你們為業之地。
Pass through the host, and command the people, saying, Prepare you victuals; for within three days ye shall pass over this Jordan, to go in to possess the land, which the LORD your God giveth you to possess it.

1:12    約書亞對流便人，迦得人，和瑪拿西半支派的人說，
And to the Reubenites, and to the Gadites, and to half the tribe of Manasseh, spake Joshua, saying,

1:13    你們要追念耶和華的僕人摩西所吩咐你們的話說，耶和華你們的神使你們得享平安，也必將這地賜給你們。
Remember the word which Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, saying, The LORD your God hath given you rest, and hath given you this land.

1:14    你們的妻子，孩子，和牲畜都可以留在約旦河東，摩西所給你們的地。但你們中間一切大能的勇士都要帶著兵器在你們的弟兄前面過去，幫助他們，
Your wives, your little ones, and your cattle, shall remain in the land which Moses gave you on this side Jordan; but ye shall pass before your brethren armed, all the mighty men of valour, and help them;

1:15    等到耶和華使你們的弟兄像你們一樣得享平安，並且得著耶和華你們神所賜他們為業之地，那時才可以回你們所得之地，承受為業，就是耶和華的僕人摩西在約旦河東，向日出之地所給你們的。
Until the LORD have given your brethren rest, as he hath given you, and they also have possessed the land which the LORD your God giveth them: then ye shall return unto the land of your possession, and enjoy it, which Moses the LORD's servant gave you on this side Jordan toward the sunrising.

1:16    他們回答約書亞說，你所吩咐我們行的，我們都必行。你所差遣我們去的，我們都必去。
And they answered Joshua, saying, All that thou commandest us we will do, and whithersoever thou sendest us, we will go.

1:17    我們從前在一切事上怎樣聽從摩西，現在也必照樣聽從你。惟願耶和華你的神與你同在，像與摩西同在一樣。
According as we hearkened unto Moses in all things, so will we hearken unto thee: only the LORD thy God be with thee, as he was with Moses.

1:18    無論什麼人違揹你的命令，不聽從你所吩咐他的一切話，就必治死他。你只要剛強壯膽。
Whosoever he be that doth rebel against thy commandment, and will not hearken unto thy words in all that thou commandest him, he shall be put to death: only be strong and of a good courage.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


2:1    當下，嫩的兒子約書亞從什亭暗暗打發兩個人作探子，吩咐說，你們去窺探那地和耶利哥。於是二人去了，來到一個妓女名叫喇合的家裡，就在那裡躺臥。
And Joshua the son of Nun sent out of Shittim two men to spy secretly, saying, Go view the land, even Jericho. And they went, and came into an harlot's house, named Rahab, and lodged there.

2:2    有人告訴耶利哥王說，今夜有以色列人來到這裡窺探此地。
And it was told the king of Jericho, saying, Behold, there came men in hither to night of the children of Israel to search out the country.

2:3    耶利哥王打發人去見喇合說，那來到你這裡，進了你家的人要交出來，因為他們來窺探全地。
And the king of Jericho sent unto Rahab, saying, Bring forth the men that are come to thee, which are entered into thine house: for they be come to search out all the country.

2:4    女人將二人隱藏，就回答說，那人果然到我這裡來。他們是哪裡來的我卻不知道。
And the woman took the two men, and hid them, and said thus, There came men unto me, but I wist not whence they were:

2:5    天黑，要關城門的時候，他們出去了，往哪裡去我卻不知道。你們快快地去追趕，就必追上。
And it came to pass about the time of shutting of the gate, when it was dark, that the men went out: whither the men went I wot not: pursue after them quickly; for ye shall overtake them.

2:6    （先是女人領二人上了房頂，將他們藏在那裡所擺的麻秸中。）
But she had brought them up to the roof of the house, and hid them with the stalks of flax, which she had laid in order upon the roof.

2:7    那些人就往約旦河的渡口追趕他們去了。追趕他們的人一出去，城門就關了。
And the men pursued after them the way to Jordan unto the fords: and as soon as they which pursued after them were gone out, they shut the gate.

2:8    二人還沒有躺臥，女人就上房頂，到他們那裡，
And before they were laid down, she came up unto them upon the roof;

2:9    對他們說，我知道耶和華已經把這地賜給你們，並且因你們的緣故我們都驚慌了。這地的一切居民在你們面前心都消化了。
And she said unto the men, I know that the LORD hath given you the land, and that your terror is fallen upon us, and that all the inhabitants of the land faint because of you.

2:10    因為我們聽見你們出埃及的時候，耶和華怎樣在你們前面使紅海的水乾了，並且你們怎樣待約旦河東的兩個亞摩利王西巨集和噩，將他們盡行毀滅。
For we have heard how the LORD dried up the water of the Red sea for you, when ye came out of Egypt; and what ye did unto the two kings of the Amorites, that were on the other side Jordan, Sihon and Og, whom ye utterly destroyed.

2:11    我們一聽見這些事，心就消化了。因你們的緣故，並無一人有膽氣。耶和華你們的神本是上天下地的神。
And as soon as we had heard these things, our hearts did melt, neither did there remain any more courage in any man, because of you: for the LORD your God, he is God in heaven above, and in earth beneath.

2:12    現在我既是恩待你們，求你們指著耶和華向我起誓，也要恩待我父家，並給我一個實在的證據，
Now therefore, I pray you, swear unto me by the LORD, since I have shewed you kindness, that ye will also shew kindness unto my father's house, and give me a true token:

2:13    要救活我的父母，弟兄，姊妹，和一切屬他們的，拯救我們性命不死。
And that ye will save alive my father, and my mother, and my brethren, and my sisters, and all that they have, and deliver our lives from death.

2:14    二人對她說，你若不洩漏我們這件事，我們情願替你們死。耶和華將這地賜給我們的時候，我們必以慈愛誠實待你。
And the men answered her, Our life for yours, if ye utter not this our business. And it shall be, when the LORD hath given us the land, that we will deal kindly and truly with thee.

2:15    於是女人用繩子將二人從窗戶裡縋下去。因她的房子是在城牆邊上，她也住在城牆上。
Then she let them down by a cord through the window: for her house was upon the town wall, and she dwelt upon the wall.

2:16    她對他們說，你們且往山上去，恐怕追趕的人碰見你們。要在那裡隱藏三天，等追趕的人回來，然後才可以走你們的路。
And she said unto them, Get you to the mountain, lest the pursuers meet you; and hide yourselves there three days, until the pursuers be returned: and afterward may ye go your way.

2:17    二人對她說，你要這樣行。不然，你叫我們所起的誓就與我們無干了。
And the men said unto her, We will be blameless of this thine oath which thou hast made us swear.

2:18    我們來到這地的時候，你要把這條硃紅線繩系在縋我們下去的窗戶上，並要使你的父母，弟兄，和你父的全家都聚集在你家中。
Behold, when we come into the land, thou shalt bind this line of scarlet thread in the window which thou didst let us down by: and thou shalt bring thy father, and thy mother, and thy brethren, and all thy father's household, home unto thee.

2:19    凡出了你家門往街上去的，他的罪（罪原文作血）必歸到自己的頭上，與我們無干了。凡在你家裡的，若有人下手害他，流他血的罪就歸到我們的頭上。
And it shall be, that whosoever shall go out of the doors of thy house into the street, his blood shall be upon his head, and we will be guiltless: and whosoever shall be with thee in the house, his blood shall be on our head, if any hand be upon him.

2:20    你若洩漏我們這件事，你叫我們所起的誓就與我們無干了。
And if thou utter this our business, then we will be quit of thine oath which thou hast made us to swear.

2:21    女人說，照你們的話行吧。於是打發他們去了，又把硃紅線繩系在窗戶上。
And she said, According unto your words, so be it. And she sent them away, and they departed: and she bound the scarlet line in the window.

2:22    二人到山上，在那裡住了三天，等著追趕的人回去了。追趕的人一路找他們，卻找不著。
And they went, and came unto the mountain, and abode there three days, until the pursuers were returned: and the pursuers sought them throughout all the way, but found them not.

2:23    二人就下山回來，過了河，到嫩的兒子約書亞那裡，向他述說所遭遇的一切事。
So the two men returned, and descended from the mountain, and passed over, and came to Joshua the son of Nun, and told him all things that befell them:

2:24    又對約書亞說，耶和華果然將那全地交在我們手中。那地的一切居民在我們面前心都消化了。
And they said unto Joshua, Truly the LORD hath delivered into our hands all the land; for even all the inhabitants of the country do faint because of us.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


3:1    約書亞清早起來，和以色列眾人都離開什亭，來到約旦河，就住在那裡，等候過河。
And Joshua rose early in the morning; and they removed from Shittim, and came to Jordan, he and all the children of Israel, and lodged there before they passed over.



3:2    過了三天，官長走遍營中，
And it came to pass after three days, that the officers went through the host;

3:3    吩咐百姓說，你們看見耶和華你們神的約櫃，又見祭司利未人抬著，就要離開所住的地方，跟著約櫃去。
And they commanded the people, saying, When ye see the ark of the covenant of the LORD your God, and the priests the Levites bearing it, then ye shall remove from your place, and go after it.

3:4    只是你們和約櫃相離要量二千肘，不可與約櫃相近，使你們知道所當走的路，因為這條路你們向來沒有走過。
Yet there shall be a space between you and it, about two thousand cubits by measure: come not near unto it, that ye may know the way by which ye must go: for ye have not passed this way heretofore.

3:5    約書亞吩咐百姓說，你們要自潔，因為明天耶和華必在你們中間行奇事。
And Joshua said unto the people, Sanctify yourselves: for to morrow the LORD will do wonders among you.

3:6    約書亞又吩咐祭司說，你們抬起約櫃，在百姓前頭過去。於是他們抬起約櫃，在百姓前頭走。
And Joshua spake unto the priests, saying, Take up the ark of the covenant, and pass over before the people. And they took up the ark of the covenant, and went before the people.

3:7    耶和華對約書亞說，從今日起，我必使你在以色列眾人眼前尊大，使他們知道我怎樣與摩西同在，也必照樣與你同在。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, This day will I begin to magnify thee in the sight of all Israel, that they may know that, as I was with Moses, so I will be with thee.

3:8    你要吩咐抬約櫃的祭司說，你們到了約旦河的水邊上，就要在約旦河水裡站住。
And thou shalt command the priests that bear the ark of the covenant, saying, When ye are come to the brink of the water of Jordan, ye shall stand still in Jordan.

3:9    約書亞對以色列人說，你們近前來，聽耶和華你們神的話。
And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, Come hither, and hear the words of the LORD your God.

3:10    *
And Joshua said, Hereby ye shall know that the living God is among you, and that he will without fail drive out from before you the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Hivites, and the Perizzites, and the Girgashites, and the Amorites, and the Jebusites.

3:11    約書亞說，看哪，普天下主的約櫃必在你們前頭過去，到約旦河裡，因此你們就知道在你們中間有永生神。並且他必在你們面前趕出迦南人，赫人，希未人，比利洗人，革迦撒人，亞摩利人，耶布斯人。
Behold, the ark of the covenant of the LORD of all the earth passeth over before you into Jordan.

3:12    你們現在要從以色列支派中揀選十二個人，每支派一人，
Now therefore take you twelve men out of the tribes of Israel, out of every tribe a man.

3:13    等到抬普天下主耶和華約櫃的祭司把腳站在約旦河水裡，約旦河的水，就是從上往下流的水，必然斷絕，立起成壘。
And it shall come to pass, as soon as the soles of the feet of the priests that bear the ark of the LORD, the LORD of all the earth, shall rest in the waters of Jordan, that the waters of Jordan shall be cut off from the waters that come down from above; and they shall stand upon an heap.

3:14    百姓離開帳棚要過約旦河的時候，抬約櫃的祭司乃在百姓的前頭。
And it came to pass, when the people removed from their tents, to pass over Jordan, and the priests bearing the ark of the covenant before the people;

3:15    他們到了約旦河，腳一入水（原來約旦河水在收割的日子漲過兩岸），
And as they that bare the ark were come unto Jordan, and the feet of the priests that bare the ark were dipped in the brim of the water, (for Jordan overfloweth all his banks all the time of harvest,)

3:16    那從上往下流的水便在極遠之地，撒拉但旁的亞當城那裡停住，立起成壘。那往亞拉巴的海，就是鹽海，下流的水全然斷絕。於是百姓在耶利哥的對面過去了。
That the waters which came down from above stood and rose up upon an heap very far from the city Adam, that is beside Zaretan: and those that came down toward the sea of the plain, even the salt sea, failed, and were cut off: and the people passed over right against Jericho.

3:17    抬耶和華約櫃的祭司在約旦河中的乾地上站定，以色列眾人都從乾地上過去，直到國民盡都過了約旦河。
And the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD stood firm on dry ground in the midst of Jordan, and all the Israelites passed over on dry ground, until all the people were passed clean over Jordan.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


4:1    國民盡都過了約旦河，耶和華就對約書亞說，
And it came to pass, when all the people were clean passed over Jordan, that the LORD spake unto Joshua, saying,

4:2    你從民中要揀選十二個人，每支派一人，
Take you twelve men out of the people, out of every tribe a man,

4:3    吩咐他們說，你們從這裡，從約旦河中，祭司腳站定的地方，取十二塊石頭帶過去，放在你們今夜要住宿的地方。
And command ye them, saying, Take you hence out of the midst of Jordan, out of the place where the priests' feet stood firm, twelve stones, and ye shall carry them over with you, and leave them in the lodging place, where ye shall lodge this night.

4:4    於是，約書亞將他從以色列人中所預備的那十二個人，每支派一人，都召了來。
Then Joshua called the twelve men, whom he had prepared of the children of Israel, out of every tribe a man:

4:5    對他們說，你們下約旦河中，過到耶和華你們神的約櫃前頭，按著以色列人十二支派的數目，每人取一塊石頭扛在肩上。
And Joshua said unto them, Pass over before the ark of the LORD your God into the midst of Jordan, and take you up every man of you a stone upon his shoulder, according unto the number of the tribes of the children of Israel:

4:6    這些石頭在你們中間可以作為證據。日後，你們的子孫問你們說，這些石頭是什麼意思。
That this may be a sign among you, that when your children ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean ye by these stones?

4:7    你們就對他們說，這是因為約旦河的水在耶和華的約櫃前斷絕。約櫃過約旦河的時候，約旦河的水就斷絕了。這些石頭要作以色列人永遠的紀念。
Then ye shall answer them, That the waters of Jordan were cut off before the ark of the covenant of the LORD; when it passed over Jordan, the waters of Jordan were cut off: and these stones shall be for a memorial unto the children of Israel for ever.

4:8    以色列人就照約書亞所吩咐的，按著以色列人支派的數目，從約旦河中取了十二塊石頭，都遵耶和華所吩咐約書亞的行了。他們把石頭帶過去，到他們所住宿的地方，就放在那裡。
And the children of Israel did so as Joshua commanded, and took up twelve stones out of the midst of Jordan, as the LORD spake unto Joshua, according to the number of the tribes of the children of Israel, and carried them over with them unto the place where they lodged, and laid them down there.

4:9    約書亞另把十二塊石頭立在約旦河中，在抬約櫃的祭司腳站立的地方。直到今日，那石頭還在那裡。
And Joshua set up twelve stones in the midst of Jordan, in the place where the feet of the priests which bare the ark of the covenant stood: and they are there unto this day.

4:10    抬約櫃的祭司站在約旦河中，等到耶和華曉諭約書亞吩咐百姓的事辦完了，是照摩西所吩咐約書亞的一切話。於是百姓急速過去了。
For the priests which bare the ark stood in the midst of Jordan, until everything was finished that the LORD commanded Joshua to speak unto the people, according to all that Moses commanded Joshua: and the people hasted and passed over.

4:11    眾百姓盡都過了河，耶和華的約櫃和祭司就在百姓面前過去。
And it came to pass, when all the people were clean passed over, that the ark of the LORD passed over, and the priests, in the presence of the people.

4:12    流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西半支派的人都照摩西所吩咐他們的，帶著兵器在以色列人前頭過去。
And the children of Reuben, and the children of Gad, and half the tribe of Manasseh, passed over armed before the children of Israel, as Moses spake unto them:

4:13    約有四萬人都準備打仗，在耶和華面前過去，到耶利哥的平原，等候上陣。
About forty thousand prepared for war passed over before the LORD unto battle, to the plains of Jericho.

4:14    當那日，耶和華使約書亞在以色列眾人眼前尊大。在他平生的日子，百姓敬畏他，像從前敬畏摩西一樣。
On that day the LORD magnified Joshua in the sight of all Israel; and they feared him, as they feared Moses, all the days of his life.

4:15    耶和華曉諭約書亞說，
And the LORD spake unto Joshua, saying,

4:16    你吩咐抬法櫃的祭司從約旦河裡上來。
Command the priests that bear the ark of the testimony, that they come up out of Jordan.

4:17    約書亞就吩咐祭司說，你們從約旦河裡上來。
Joshua therefore commanded the priests, saying, Come ye up out of Jordan.



4:18    抬耶和華約櫃的祭司從約旦河裡上來，腳掌剛落旱地，約旦河的水就流到原處，仍舊漲過兩岸。
And it came to pass, when the priests that bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD were come up out of the midst of Jordan, and the soles of the priests' feet were lifted up unto the dry land, that the waters of Jordan returned unto their place, and flowed over all his banks, as they did before.

4:19    正月初十日，百姓從約旦河裡上來，就在吉甲，在耶利哥的東邊安營。
And the people came up out of Jordan on the tenth day of the first month, and encamped in Gilgal, in the east border of Jericho.

4:20    他們從約旦河中取來的那十二塊石頭，約書亞就立在吉甲，
And those twelve stones, which they took out of Jordan, did Joshua pitch in Gilgal.

4:21    對以色列人說，日後你們的子孫問他們的父親說，這些石頭是什麼意思。
And he spake unto the children of Israel, saying, When your children shall ask their fathers in time to come, saying, What mean these stones?

4:22    你們就告訴他們說，以色列人曾走乾地過這約旦河。
Then ye shall let your children know, saying, Israel came over this Jordan on dry land.

4:23    因為耶和華你們的神在你們前面使約旦河的水乾了，等著你們過來，就如耶和華你們的神從前在我們前面使紅海乾了，等著我們過來一樣，
For the LORD your God dried up the waters of Jordan from before you, until ye were passed over, as the LORD your God did to the Red sea, which he dried up from before us, until we were gone over:

4:24    要使地上萬民都知道，耶和華的手大有能力，也要使你們永遠敬畏耶和華你們的神。
That all the people of the earth might know the hand of the LORD, that it is mighty: that ye might fear the LORD your God for ever.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


5:1    約旦河西亞摩利人的諸王和靠海迦南人的諸王，聽見耶和華在以色列人前面使約旦河的水乾了，等到我們過去，他們的心因以色列人的緣故就消化了，不再有膽氣。
And it came to pass, when all the kings of the Amorites, which were on the side of Jordan westward, and all the kings of the Canaanites, which were by the sea, heard that the LORD had dried up the waters of Jordan from before the children of Israel, until we were passed over, that their heart melted, neither was there spirit in them any more, because of the children of Israel.

5:2    那時，耶和華吩咐約書亞說，你製造火石刀，第二次給以色列人行割禮。
At that time the LORD said unto Joshua, Make thee sharp knives, and circumcise again the children of Israel the second time.

5:3    約書亞就製造了火石刀，在除皮山那裡給以色列人行割禮。
And Joshua made him sharp knives, and circumcised the children of Israel at the hill of the foreskins.

5:4    約書亞行割禮的緣故，是因為從埃及出來的眾民，就是一切能打仗的男丁，出了埃及以後，都死在曠野的路上。
And this is the cause why Joshua did circumcise: All the people that came out of Egypt, that were males, even all the men of war, died in the wilderness by the way, after they came out of Egypt.

5:5    因為出來的眾民都受過割禮。惟獨出埃及以後，在曠野的路上所生的眾民都沒有受過割禮。
Now all the people that came out were circumcised: but all the people that were born in the wilderness by the way as they came forth out of Egypt, them they had not circumcised.

5:6    以色列人在曠野走了四十年，等到國民，就是出埃及的兵丁，都消滅了，因為他們沒有聽從耶和華的話。耶和華曾向他們起誓，必不容他們看見耶和華向他們列祖起誓，應許賜給我們的地，就是流奶與蜜之地。
For the children of Israel walked forty years in the wilderness, till all the people that were men of war, which came out of Egypt, were consumed, because they obeyed not the voice of the LORD: unto whom the LORD sware that he would not shew them the land, which the LORD sware unto their fathers that he would give us, a land that floweth with milk and honey.

5:7    他們的子孫，就是耶和華所興起來接續他們的，都沒有受過割禮。因為在路上沒有給他們行割禮，約書亞這才給他們行了。
And their children, whom he raised up in their stead, them Joshua circumcised: for they were uncircumcised, because they had not circumcised them by the way.

5:8    國民都受完了割禮，就住在營中自己的地方，等到痊癒了。
And it came to pass, when they had done circumcising all the people, that they abode in their places in the camp, till they were whole.

5:9    耶和華對約書亞說，我今日將埃及的羞辱從你們身上輥去了。因此，那地方名叫吉甲（吉甲就是輥的意思），直到今日。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, This day have I rolled away the reproach of Egypt from off you. Wherefore the name of the place is called Gilgal unto this day.

5:10    以色列人在吉甲安營。正月十四日晚上，在耶利哥的平原守逾越節。
And the children of Israel encamped in Gilgal, and kept the passover on the fourteenth day of the month at even in the plains of Jericho.

5:11    逾越節的次日，他們就吃了那地的出產。正當那日吃無酵餅和烘的谷。
And they did eat of the old corn of the land on the morrow after the passover, unleavened cakes, and parched corn in the selfsame day.

5:12    他們吃了那地的出產，第二日嗎哪就止住了，以色列人也不再有嗎哪了。那一年，他們卻吃迦南地的出產。
And the manna ceased on the morrow after they had eaten of the old corn of the land; neither had the children of Israel manna any more; but they did eat of the fruit of the land of Canaan that year.

5:13    約書亞靠近耶利哥的時候，舉目觀看，不料，有一個人手裡有拔出來的刀，對面站立。約書亞到他那裡，問他說，你是幫助我們呢，是幫助我們敵人呢。
And it came to pass, when Joshua was by Jericho, that he lifted up his eyes and looked, and, behold, there stood a man over against him with his sword drawn in his hand: and Joshua went unto him, and said unto him, Art thou for us, or for our adversaries?

5:14    他回答說，不是的，我來是要作耶和華軍隊的元帥。約書亞就俯伏在地下拜，說，我主有什麼話吩咐僕人。
And he said, Nay; but as captain of the host of the LORD am I now come. And Joshua fell on his face to the earth, and did worship, and said unto him, What saith my lord unto his servant?

5:15    耶和華軍隊的元帥對約書亞說，把你腳上的鞋脫下來，因為你所站的地方是聖的。約書亞就照著行了。
And the captain of the LORD's host said unto Joshua, Loose thy shoe from off thy foot; for the place whereon thou standest is holy. And Joshua did so.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


6:1    耶利哥的城門因以色列人就關得嚴緊，無人出入。
Now Jericho was straitly shut up because of the children of Israel: none went out, and none came in.

6:2    耶和華曉諭約書亞說，看哪，我已經把耶利哥和耶利哥的王，並大能的勇士，都交在你手中。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, See, I have given into thine hand Jericho, and the king thereof, and the mighty men of valour.

6:3    你們的一切兵丁要圍繞這城，一日圍繞一次，六日都要這樣行。
And ye shall compass the city, all ye men of war, and go round about the city once. Thus shalt thou do six days.

6:4    七個祭司要拿七個羊角走在約櫃前。到第七日，你們要繞城七次，祭司也要吹角。
And seven priests shall bear before the ark seven trumpets of rams' horns: and the seventh day ye shall compass the city seven times, and the priests shall blow with the trumpets.

6:5    他們吹的角聲拖長，你們聽見角聲，眾百姓要大聲呼喊，城牆就必塌陷，各人都要往前直上。
And it shall come to pass, that when they make a long blast with the ram's horn, and when ye hear the sound of the trumpet, all the people shall shout with a great shout; and the wall of the city shall fall down flat, and the people shall ascend up every man straight before him.

6:6    嫩的兒子約書亞召了祭司來，吩咐他們說，你們抬起約櫃來，要有七個祭司拿七個羊角走在耶和華的約櫃前。
And Joshua the son of Nun called the priests, and said unto them, Take up the ark of the covenant, and let seven priests bear seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD.

6:7    又對百姓說，你們前去繞城，帶兵器的要走在耶和華的約櫃前。
And he said unto the people, Pass on, and compass the city, and let him that is armed pass on before the ark of the LORD.

6:8    約書亞對百姓說完了話，七個祭司拿七個羊角走在耶和華面前吹角。耶和華的約櫃在他們後面跟隨。
And it came to pass, when Joshua had spoken unto the people, that the seven priests bearing the seven trumpets of rams' horns passed on before the LORD, and blew with the trumpets: and the ark of the covenant of the LORD followed them.

6:9    帶兵器的走在吹角的祭司前面，後隊隨著約櫃行。祭司一面走一面吹。
And the armed men went before the priests that blew with the trumpets, and the rereward came after the ark, the priests going on, and blowing with the trumpets.

6:10    約書亞吩咐百姓說，你們不可呼喊，不可出聲，連一句話也不可出你們的口，等到我吩咐你們呼喊的日子，那時才可以呼喊。
And Joshua had commanded the people, saying, Ye shall not shout, nor make any noise with your voice, neither shall any word proceed out of your mouth, until the day I bid you shout; then shall ye shout.

6:11    這樣，他使耶和華的約櫃繞城，把城繞了一次。眾人回到營裡，就在營裡住宿。
So the ark of the LORD compassed the city, going about it once: and they came into the camp, and lodged in the camp.

6:12    約書亞清早起來，祭司又抬起耶和華的約櫃。
And Joshua rose early in the morning, and the priests took up the ark of the LORD.

6:13    七個祭司拿七個羊角在耶和華的約櫃前，時常行走吹角。帶兵器的在他們前面走，後隊隨著耶和華的約櫃行。祭司一面走一面吹。
And seven priests bearing seven trumpets of rams' horns before the ark of the LORD went on continually, and blew with the trumpets: and the armed men went before them; but the rereward came after the ark of the LORD, the priests going on, and blowing with the trumpets.

6:14    第二日，眾人把城繞了一次，就回營裡去。六日都是這樣行。
And the second day they compassed the city once, and returned into the camp: so they did six days.

6:15    第七日清早，黎明的時候，他們起來，照樣繞城七次。惟獨這日把城繞了七次。
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they rose early about the dawning of the day, and compassed the city after the same manner seven times: only on that day they compassed the city seven times.

6:16    到了第七次，祭司吹角的時候，約書亞吩咐百姓說，呼喊吧，因為耶和華已經把城交給你們了。
And it came to pass at the seventh time, when the priests blew with the trumpets, Joshua said unto the people, Shout; for the LORD hath given you the city.

6:17    這城和其中所有的都要在耶和華面前毀滅。只有妓女喇合與她家中所有的可以存活，因為她隱藏了我們所打發的使者。
And the city shall be accursed, even it, and all that are therein, to the LORD: only Rahab the harlot shall live, she and all that are with her in the house, because she hid the messengers that we sent.

6:18    至於你們，務要謹慎，不可取那當滅的物，恐怕你們取了那當滅的物就連累以色列的全營，使全營受咒詛。
And ye, in any wise keep yourselves from the accursed thing, lest ye make yourselves accursed, when ye take of the accursed thing, and make the camp of Israel a curse, and trouble it.

6:19    惟有金子，銀子，和銅鐵的器皿都要歸耶和華為聖，必入耶和華的庫中。
But all the silver, and gold, and vessels of brass and iron, are consecrated unto the LORD: they shall come into the treasury of the LORD.



6:20    於是百姓呼喊，祭司也吹角。百姓聽見角聲，便大聲呼喊，城牆就塌陷，百姓便上去進城，各人往前直上，將城奪取。
So the people shouted when the priests blew with the trumpets: and it came to pass, when the people heard the sound of the trumpet, and the people shouted with a great shout, that the wall fell down flat, so that the people went up into the city, every man straight before him, and they took the city.

6:21    又將城中所有的，不拘男女老少，牛羊和驢，都用刀殺盡。
And they utterly destroyed all that was in the city, both man and woman, young and old, and ox, and sheep, and ass, with the edge of the sword.

6:22    約書亞吩咐窺探地的兩個人說，你們進那妓女的家，照著你們向她所起的誓，將那女人和她所有的都從那裡帶出來。
But Joshua had said unto the two men that had spied out the country, Go into the harlot's house, and bring out thence the woman, and all that she hath, as ye sware unto her.

6:23    當探子的兩個少年人就進去，將喇合與她的父母，弟兄，和她所有的，並她一切的親眷，都帶出來，安置在以色列的營外。
And the young men that were spies went in, and brought out Rahab, and her father, and her mother, and her brethren, and all that she had; and they brought out all her kindred, and left them without the camp of Israel.

6:24    眾人就用火將城和其中所有的焚燒了。惟有金子，銀子，和銅鐵的器皿都放在耶和華殿的庫中。
And they burnt the city with fire, and all that was therein: only the silver, and the gold, and the vessels of brass and of iron, they put into the treasury of the house of the LORD.

6:25    約書亞卻把妓女喇合與她父家，並她所有的，都救活了。因為她隱藏了約書亞所打發窺探耶利哥的使者，她就住在以色列中，直到今日。
And Joshua saved Rahab the harlot alive, and her father's household, and all that she had; and she dwelleth in Israel even unto this day; because she hid the messengers, which Joshua sent to spy out Jericho.

6:26    當時，約書亞叫眾人起誓說，有興起重修這耶利哥城的人，當在耶和華面前受咒詛。他立根基的時候，必喪長子，安門的時候，必喪幼子。
And Joshua adjured them at that time, saying, Cursed be the man before the LORD, that riseth up and buildeth this city Jericho: he shall lay the foundation thereof in his firstborn, and in his youngest son shall he set up the gates of it.

6:27    耶和華與約書亞同在，約書亞的聲名傳揚遍地。
So the LORD was with Joshua; and his fame was noised throughout all the country.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


7:1    以色列人在當滅的物上犯了罪。因為猶大支派中，謝拉的曾孫，撒底的孫子，迦米的兒子亞幹取了當滅的物。耶和華的怒氣就向以色列人發作。
But the children of Israel committed a trespass in the accursed thing: for Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, took of the accursed thing: and the anger of the LORD was kindled against the children of Israel.

7:2    當下，約書亞從耶利哥打發人往伯特利東邊，靠近伯亞文的艾城去，吩咐他們說，你們上去窺探那地。他們就上去窺探艾城。
And Joshua sent men from Jericho to Ai, which is beside Bethaven, on the east side of Bethel, and spake unto them, saying, Go up and view the country.  And the men went up and viewed Ai.

7:3    他們回到約書亞那裡，對他說，眾民不必都上去，只要二三千人上去就能攻取艾城。不必勞累眾民都去，因為那裡的人少。
And they returned to Joshua, and said unto him, Let not all the people go up; but let about two or three thousand men go up and smite Ai; and make not all the people to labour thither; for they are but few.

7:4    於是民中約有三千人上那裡去，竟在艾城人面前逃跑了。
So there went up thither of the people about three thousand men: and they fled before the men of Ai.

7:5    艾城的人擊殺了他們三十六人，從城門前追趕他們，直到示巴琳，在下坡殺敗他們。眾民的心就消化如水。
And the men of Ai smote of them about thirty and six men: for they chased them from before the gate even unto Shebarim, and smote them in the going down: wherefore the hearts of the people melted, and became as water.

7:6    約書亞便撕裂衣服。他和以色列的長老把灰撒在頭上，在耶和華的約櫃前俯伏在地，直到晚上。
And Joshua rent his clothes, and fell to the earth upon his face before the ark of the LORD until the eventide, he and the elders of Israel, and put dust upon their heads.

7:7    約書亞說，哀哉。主耶和華阿，你為什麼竟領這百姓過約旦河，將我們交在亞摩利人的手中，使我們滅亡呢。我們不如住在約旦河那邊倒好。
And Joshua said, Alas, O LORD God, wherefore hast thou at all brought this people over Jordan, to deliver us into the hand of the Amorites, to destroy us? would to God we had been content, and dwelt on the other side Jordan!

7:8    主阿，以色列人既在仇敵面前轉背逃跑，我還有什麼可說的呢。
O LORD, what shall I say, when Israel turneth their backs before their enemies!

7:9    迦南人和這地一切的居民聽見了就必圍困我們，將我們的名從地上除滅。那時你為你的大名要怎樣行呢。
For the Canaanites and all the inhabitants of the land shall hear of it, and shall environ us round, and cut off our name from the earth: and what wilt thou do unto thy great name?

7:10    耶和華吩咐約書亞說，起來。你為何這樣俯伏在地呢。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, Get thee up; wherefore liest thou thus upon thy face?

7:11    以色列人犯了罪，違背了我所吩咐他們的約，取了當滅的物。又偷竊，又行詭詐，又把那當滅的放在他們的傢俱裡。
Israel hath sinned, and they have also transgressed my covenant which I commanded them: for they have even taken of the accursed thing, and have also stolen, and dissembled also, and they have put it even among their own stuff.

7:12    因此，以色列人在仇敵面前刪立不住。他們在仇敵面前轉背逃跑，是因成了被咒詛的。你們若不把當滅的物從你們中間除掉，我就不再與你們同在了。
Therefore the children of Israel could not stand before their enemies, but turned their backs before their enemies, because they were accursed: neither will I be with you any more, except ye destroy the accursed from among you.

7:13    你起來，叫百姓自潔，對他們說，你們要自潔，預備明天，因為耶和華以色列的神這樣說，以色列阿，你們中間有當滅的物，你們若不除掉，在仇敵面前必站立不住。
Up, sanctify the people, and say, Sanctify yourselves against to morrow: for thus saith the LORD God of Israel, There is an accursed thing in the midst of thee, O Israel: thou canst not stand before thine enemies, until ye take away the accursed thing from among you.

7:14    到了早晨，你們要按著支派近前來。耶和華所取的支派，要按著宗族近前來。耶和華所取的宗族，要按著家室近前來。耶和華所取的家室，要按著人丁，一個一個地近前來。
In the morning therefore ye shall be brought according to your tribes: and it shall be, that the tribe which the LORD taketh shall come according to the families thereof; and the family which the LORD shall take shall come by households; and the household which the LORD shall take shall come man by man.

7:15    被取的人有當滅的物在他那裡，他和他所有的必被火焚燒。因他違背了耶和華的約，又因他在以色列中行了愚妄的事。
And it shall be, that he that is taken with the accursed thing shall be burnt with fire, he and all that he hath: because he hath transgressed the covenant of the LORD, and because he hath wrought folly in Israel.

7:16    於是，約書亞清早起來，使以色列人按著支派近前來，取出來的是猶大支派。
So Joshua rose up early in the morning, and brought Israel by their tribes; and the tribe of Judah was taken:

7:17    使猶大支派（原文作宗族）近前來，就取了謝拉的宗族。使謝拉的宗族，按著家室人丁，一個一個地近前來，取出來的是撒底。
And he brought the family of Judah; and he took the family of the Zarhites: and he brought the family of the Zarhites man by man; and Zabdi was taken:

7:18    使撒底的家室，按著人丁，一個一個地近前來，就取出猶大支派的人謝拉的曾孫，撒底的孫子，迦米的兒子亞幹。
And he brought his household man by man; and Achan, the son of Carmi, the son of Zabdi, the son of Zerah, of the tribe of Judah, was taken.

7:19    約書亞對亞幹說，我兒，我勸你將榮耀歸給耶和華以色列的神，在他面前認罪，將你所作的事告訴我，不要向我隱瞞。
And Joshua said unto Achan, My son, give, I pray thee, glory to the LORD God of Israel, and make confession unto him; and tell me now what thou hast done; hide it not from me.

7:20    亞幹回答約書亞說，我實在得罪了耶和華以色列的神。我所作的事如此如此，
And Achan answered Joshua, and said, Indeed I have sinned against the LORD God of Israel, and thus and thus have I done:

7:21    我在所奪的財物中看見一件美好的示拿衣服，二百舍客勒銀子，一條金子重五十舍客勒，我就貪愛這些物件，便拿去了。現今藏在我帳棚內的地裡，銀子在衣服底下。
When I saw among the spoils a goodly Babylonish garment, and two hundred shekels of silver, and a wedge of gold of fifty shekels weight, then I coveted them, and took them; and, behold, they are hid in the earth in the midst of my tent, and the silver under it.

7:22    約書亞就打發人跑到亞乾的帳棚裡。那件衣服果然藏在他帳棚內，銀子在底下。
So Joshua sent messengers, and they ran unto the tent; and, behold, it was hid in his tent, and the silver under it.

7:23    他們就從帳棚裡取出來，拿到約書亞和以色列眾人那裡，放在耶和華面前。
And they took them out of the midst of the tent, and brought them unto Joshua, and unto all the children of Israel, and laid them out before the LORD.

7:24    約書亞和以色列眾人把謝拉的曾孫亞乾和那銀子，那件衣服，那條金子，並亞乾的兒女，牛，驢，羊，帳棚，以及他所有的，都帶到亞割谷去。
And Joshua, and all Israel with him, took Achan the son of Zerah, and the silver, and the garment, and the wedge of gold, and his sons, and his daughters, and his oxen, and his asses, and his sheep, and his tent, and all that he had: and they brought them unto the valley of Achor.

7:25    約書亞說，你為什麼連累我們呢。今日耶和華必叫你受連累。於是以色列眾人用石頭打死他，將石頭扔在其上，又用火焚燒他所有的（他所有的原文作他們）。
And Joshua said, Why hast thou troubled us? the LORD shall trouble thee this day. And all Israel stoned him with stones, and burned them with fire, after they had stoned them with stones.

7:26    眾人在亞幹身上堆成一大堆石頭，直存到今日。於是耶和華轉意，不發他的烈怒。因此那地方名叫亞割谷（亞割就是連累的意思），直到今日。
And they raised over him a great heap of stones unto this day. So the LORD turned from the fierceness of his anger. Wherefore the name of that place was called, The valley of Achor, unto this day.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華對約書亞說，不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。你起來，率領一切兵丁上艾城去，我已經把艾城的王和他的民，他的城，並他的地，都交在你手裡。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, Fear not, neither be thou dismayed: take all the people of war with thee, and arise, go up to Ai: see, I have given into thy hand the king of Ai, and his people, and his city, and his land:

8:2    你怎樣待耶利哥和耶利哥的王，也當照樣待艾城和艾城的王。只是城內所奪的財物和牲畜，你們可以取為自己的掠物。你要在城後設下伏兵。
And thou shalt do to Ai and her king as thou didst unto Jericho and her king: only the spoil thereof, and the cattle thereof, shall ye take for a prey unto yourselves: lay thee an ambush for the city behind it.

8:3    於是，約書亞和一切兵丁都起來，要上艾城去。約書亞選了三萬大能的勇士，夜間打發他們前往，
So Joshua arose, and all the people of war, to go up against Ai: and Joshua chose out thirty thousand mighty men of valour, and sent them away by night.

8:4    吩咐他們說，你們要在城後埋伏，不可離城太遠，都要各自準備。
And he commanded them, saying, Behold, ye shall lie in wait against the city, even behind the city: go not very far from the city, but be ye all ready:

8:5    我與我所帶領的眾民要向城前往。城裡的人像初次出來攻擊我們的時候，我們就在他們面前逃跑，
And I, and all the people that are with me, will approach unto the city: and it shall come to pass, when they come out against us, as at the first, that we will flee before them,

8:6    他們必出來追趕我們，直到我們引誘他們離開城。因為他們必說，這些人像初次在我們面前逃跑。所以我們要在他們面前逃跑，
(For they will come out after us) till we have drawn them from the city; for they will say, They flee before us, as at the first: therefore we will flee before them.

8:7    你們就從埋伏的地方起來，奪取那城。因為耶和華你們的神，必把城交在你們手裡。
Then ye shall rise up from the ambush, and seize upon the city: for the LORD your God will deliver it into your hand.

8:8    你們奪了城以後，就放火燒城，要照耶和華的話行。這是我吩咐你們的。
And it shall be, when ye have taken the city, that ye shall set the city on fire: according to the commandment of the LORD shall ye do. See, I have commanded you.

8:9    約書亞打發他們前往，他們就上埋伏的地方去，住在伯特利和艾城的中間，就是在艾城的西邊。這夜約書亞卻在民中住宿。
Joshua therefore sent them forth: and they went to lie in ambush, and abode between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of Ai: but Joshua lodged that night among the people.

8:10    約書亞清早起來，點齊百姓，他和以色列的長老在百姓前面上艾城去。
And Joshua rose up early in the morning, and numbered the people, and went up, he and the elders of Israel, before the people to Ai.

8:11    眾民，就是他所帶領的兵丁，都上去，向前直往，來到城前，在艾城北邊安營。在約書亞和艾城中間有一山谷。
And all the people, even the people of war that were with him, went up, and drew nigh, and came before the city, and pitched on the north side of Ai: now there was a valley between them and Ai.

8:12    他挑了約有五千人，使他們埋伏在伯特利和艾城的中間，就是在艾城的西邊，
And he took about five thousand men, and set them to lie in ambush between Bethel and Ai, on the west side of the city.

8:13    於是安置了百姓，就是城北的全軍和城西的伏兵。這夜約書亞進入山谷之中。
And when they had set the people, even all the host that was on the north of the city, and their liers in wait on the west of the city, Joshua went that night into the midst of the valley.

8:14    艾城的王看見這景況，就和全城的人，清早急忙起來，按所定的時候，出到亞拉巴前，要與以色列人交戰。王卻不知道在城後有伏兵。
And it came to pass, when the king of Ai saw it, that they hasted and rose up early, and the men of the city went out against Israel to battle, he and all his people, at a time appointed, before the plain; but he wist not that there were liers in ambush against him behind the city.

8:15    約書亞和以色列眾人在他們面前裝敗，往那通曠野的路逃跑。
And Joshua and all Israel made as if they were beaten before them, and fled by the way of the wilderness.

8:16    城內的眾民都被招聚，追趕他們。艾城人追趕的時候，就被引誘離開城。
And all the people that were in Ai were called together to pursue after them: and they pursued after Joshua, and were drawn away from the city.

8:17    艾城和伯特利城沒有一人不出來追趕以色列人的，撇了敞開的城門，去追趕以色列人。
And there was not a man left in Ai or Bethel, that went not out after Israel: and they left the city open, and pursued after Israel.

8:18    耶和華吩咐約書亞說，你向艾城伸出手裡的短槍，因為我要將城交在你手裡。約書亞就向城伸出手裡的短槍。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, Stretch out the spear that is in thy hand toward Ai; for I will give it into thine hand. And Joshua stretched out the spear that he had in his hand toward the city.

8:19    他一伸手，伏兵就從埋伏的地方急忙起來，奪了城，跑進城去，放火焚燒。
And the ambush arose quickly out of their place, and they ran as soon as he had stretched out his hand: and they entered into the city, and took it, and hasted and set the city on fire.

8:20    艾城的人回頭一看，不料，城中煙氣沖天，他們就無力向左向右逃跑。那往曠野逃跑的百姓便轉身攻擊追趕他們的人。
And when the men of Ai looked behind them, they saw, and, behold, the smoke of the city ascended up to heaven, and they had no power to flee this way or that way: and the people that fled to the wilderness turned back upon the pursuers.

8:21    約書亞和以色列眾人見伏兵已經奪了城，城中煙氣飛騰，就轉身回去，擊殺艾城的人。
And when Joshua and all Israel saw that the ambush had taken the city, and that the smoke of the city ascended, then they turned again, and slew the men of Ai.

8:22    伏兵也出城迎擊艾城人，艾城人就困在以色列人中間，前後都是以色列人。於是以色列人擊殺他們，沒有留下一個，也沒有一個逃脫的，
And the other issued out of the city against them; so they were in the midst of Israel, some on this side, and some on that side: and they smote them, so that they let none of them remain or escape.

8:23    生擒了艾城的王，將他解到約書亞那裡。
And the king of Ai they took alive, and brought him to Joshua.

8:24    以色列人在田間和曠野殺盡所追趕一切艾城的居民。艾城人倒在刀下，直到滅盡。以色列眾人就回到艾城，用刀殺了城中的人。
And it came to pass, when Israel had made an end of slaying all the inhabitants of Ai in the field, in the wilderness wherein they chased them, and when they were all fallen on the edge of the sword, until they were consumed, that all the Israelites returned unto Ai, and smote it with the edge of the sword.

8:25    當日殺斃的人，連男帶女共有一萬二千，就是艾城所有的人。
And so it was, that all that fell that day, both of men and women, were twelve thousand, even all the men of Ai.

8:26    約書亞沒有收回手裡所伸出來的短槍，直到把艾城的一切居民盡行殺滅。
For Joshua drew not his hand back, wherewith he stretched out the spear, until he had utterly destroyed all the inhabitants of Ai.

8:27    惟獨城中的牲畜和財物，以色列人都取為自己的掠物，是照耶和華所吩咐約書亞的話。
Only the cattle and the spoil of that city Israel took for a prey unto themselves, according unto the word of the LORD which he commanded Joshua.

8:28    約書亞將艾城焚燒，使城永為高堆，荒場，直到今日。
And Joshua burnt Ai, and made it an heap for ever, even a desolation unto this day.

8:29    又將艾城王掛在樹上，直到晚上。日落的時候，約書亞吩咐人把屍首從樹上取下來，丟在城門口，在屍首上堆成一大堆石頭，直存到今日。
And the king of Ai he hanged on a tree until eventide: and as soon as the sun was down, Joshua commanded that they should take his carcase down from the tree, and cast it at the entering of the gate of the city, and raise thereon a great heap of stones, that remaineth unto this day.

8:30    那時，約書亞在藝巴路山上為耶和華以色列的神築一座壇，
Then Joshua built an altar unto the LORD God of Israel in mount Ebal,

8:31    是用沒有動過鐵器的整石頭築的，照著耶和華僕人摩西所吩咐以色列人的話，正如摩西律法書上所寫的。眾人在這壇上給耶和華奉獻燔祭和平安祭。
As Moses the servant of the LORD commanded the children of Israel, as it is written in the book of the law of Moses, an altar of whole stones, over which no man hath lift up any iron: and they offered thereon burnt offerings unto the LORD, and sacrificed peace offerings.

8:32    約書亞在那裡，當著以色列人面前，將摩西所寫的律法抄寫在石頭上。
And he wrote there upon the stones a copy of the law of Moses, which he wrote in the presence of the children of Israel.

8:33    以色列眾人，無論是本地人，是寄居的，和長老，官長，並審判官，都站在約櫃兩旁，在抬耶和華約櫃的祭司利未人面前，一半對著基利心山，一半對著以巴路山，為以色列民祝福，正如耶和華僕人摩西先前所吩咐的。
And all Israel, and their elders, and officers, and their judges, stood on this side the ark and on that side before the priests the Levites, which bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, as well the stranger, as he that was born among them; half of them over against mount Gerizim, and half of them over against mount Ebal; as Moses the servant of the LORD had commanded before, that they should bless the people of Israel.

8:34    隨後，約書亞將律法上祝福，咒詛的話，照著律法書上一切所寫的，都宣讀了一遍。
And afterward he read all the words of the law, the blessings and cursings, according to all that is written in the book of the law.

8:35    摩西所吩咐的一切話，約書亞在以色列全會眾和婦女，孩子，並他們中間寄居的外人面前，沒有一句不宣讀的。
There was not a word of all that Moses commanded, which Joshua read not before all the congregation of Israel, with the women, and the little ones, and the strangers that were conversant among them.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


9:1    約旦河西，住山地，高原，並對著黎巴嫩山沿大海一帶的諸王，就是赫人，亞摩利人，迦南人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人的諸王，聽見這事，
And it came to pass, when all the kings which were on this side Jordan, in the hills, and in the valleys, and in all the coasts of the great sea over against Lebanon, the Hittite, and the Amorite, the Canaanite, the Perizzite, the Hivite, and the Jebusite, heard thereof;

9:2    就都聚集，同心合意地要與約書亞和以色列人爭戰。
That they gathered themselves together, to fight with Joshua and with Israel, with one accord.

9:3    基遍的居民聽見約書亞向耶利哥和艾城所行的事，
And when the inhabitants of Gibeon heard what Joshua had done unto Jericho and to Ai,

9:4    就設詭計，假充使者，拿舊口袋和破裂縫補的舊皮酒袋馱在驢上，
They did work wilily, and went and made as if they had been ambassadors, and took old sacks upon their asses, and wine bottles, old, and rent, and bound up;

9:5    將補過的舊鞋穿在腳上，把舊衣服穿在身上。他們所帶的餅都是乾的，長了黴了。
And old shoes and clouted upon their feet, and old garments upon them; and all the bread of their provision was dry and mouldy.

9:6    他們到吉甲營中見約書亞，對他和以色列人說，我們是從遠方來的，現在求你與我們立約。
And they went to Joshua unto the camp at Gilgal, and said unto him, and to the men of Israel, We be come from a far country: now therefore make ye a league with us.

9:7    以色列人對這些希未人說，只怕你們是住在我們中間的。若是這樣，怎能和你們立約呢。
And the men of Israel said unto the Hivites, Peradventure ye dwell among us; and how shall we make a league with you?

9:8    他們對約書亞說，我們是你的僕人。約書亞問他們說，你們是什麼人。是從哪裡來的。
And they said unto Joshua, We are thy servants. And Joshua said unto them, Who are ye? and from whence come ye?

9:9    他們回答說，僕人從極遠之地而來，是因聽見耶和華你神的名聲和他在埃及所行的一切事，
And they said unto him, From a very far country thy servants are come because of the name of the LORD thy God: for we have heard the fame of him, and all that he did in Egypt,

9:10    並他向約旦河東的兩個亞摩利王，就是希實本王西巨集和在亞斯他錄的巴珊王噩一切所行的事。
And all that he did to the two kings of the Amorites, that were beyond Jordan, to Sihon king of Heshbon, and to Og king of Bashan, which was at Ashtaroth.

9:11    我們的長老和我們那地的一切居民對我們說，你們手裡要帶著路上用的食物去迎接以色列人，對他們說，我們是你們的僕人。現在求你們與我們立約。
Wherefore our elders and all the inhabitants of our country spake to us, saying, Take victuals with you for the journey, and go to meet them, and say unto them, We are your servants: therefore now make ye a league with us.

9:12    我們出來要往你們這裡來的日子，從家裡帶出來的這餅還是熱的。看哪，現在都乾了，長了黴了。
This our bread we took hot for our provision out of our houses on the day we came forth to go unto you; but now, behold, it is dry, and it is mouldy:

9:13    這皮酒袋，我們盛酒的時候還是新的。看哪，現在已經破裂。我們這衣服和鞋，因為道路甚遠，也都穿舊了。
And these bottles of wine, which we filled, were new; and, behold, they be rent: and these our garments and our shoes are become old by reason of the very long journey.

9:14    以色列人受了他們些食物，並沒有求問耶和華。
And the men took of their victuals, and asked not counsel at the mouth of the LORD.

9:15    於是約書亞與他們講和，與他們立約，容他們活著。會眾的首領也向他們起誓。
And Joshua made peace with them, and made a league with them, to let them live: and the princes of the congregation sware unto them.

9:16    以色列人與他們立約之後，過了三天才聽見他們是近鄰，住在以色列人中間的。
And it came to pass at the end of three days after they had made a league with them, that they heard that they were their neighbours, and that they dwelt among them.

9:17    以色列人起行，第三天到了他們的城邑，就是基遍，基非拉，比錄，基列耶琳。
And the children of Israel journeyed, and came unto their cities on the third day. Now their cities were Gibeon, and Chephirah, and Beeroth, and Kirjathjearim.

9:18    因為會眾的首領已經指著耶和華以色列的神向他們起誓，所以以色列人不擊殺他們。全會眾就向首領發怨言。
And the children of Israel smote them not, because the princes of the congregation had sworn unto them by the LORD God of Israel. And all the congregation murmured against the princes.

9:19    眾首領對全會眾說，我們已經指著耶和華以色列的神向他們起誓，現在我們不能害他們。
But all the princes said unto all the congregation, We have sworn unto them by the LORD God of Israel: now therefore we may not touch them.

9:20    我們要如此待他們，容他們活著，免得有忿怒因我們所起的誓臨到我們身上。
This we will do to them; we will even let them live, lest wrath be upon us, because of the oath which we sware unto them.

9:21    首領又對會眾說，要容他們活著。於是他們為全會眾作了劈柴挑水的人，正如首領對他們所說的話。
And the princes said unto them, Let them live; but let them be hewers of wood and drawers of water unto all the congregation; as the princes had promised them.

9:22    約書亞召了他們來，對他們說，為什麼欺哄我們說我們離你們甚遠呢。其實你們是住在我們中間。
And Joshua called for them, and he spake unto them, saying, Wherefore have ye beguiled us, saying, We are very far from you; when ye dwell among us?

9:23    現在你們是被咒詛的。你們中間的人必斷不了作奴僕，為我神的殿作劈柴挑水的人。
Now therefore ye are cursed, and there shall none of you be freed from being bondmen, and hewers of wood and drawers of water for the house of my God.

9:24    他們回答約書亞說，因為有人實在告訴你的僕人，耶和華你的神曾吩咐他的僕人摩西，把這全地賜給你們，並在你們面前滅絕這地的一切居民，所以我們為你們的緣故甚怕喪命，就行了這事。
And they answered Joshua, and said, Because it was certainly told thy servants, how that the LORD thy God commanded his servant Moses to give you all the land, and to destroy all the inhabitants of the land from before you, therefore we were sore afraid of our lives because of you, and have done this thing.

9:25    現在我們在你手中，你以怎樣待我們為善為正，就怎樣做吧。
And now, behold, we are in thine hand: as it seemeth good and right unto thee to do unto us, do.

9:26    於是約書亞這樣待他們，救他們脫離以色列人的手，以色列人就沒有殺他們。
And so did he unto them, and delivered them out of the hand of the children of Israel, that they slew them not.

9:27    當日約書亞使他們在耶和華所要選擇的地方，為會眾和耶和華的壇作劈柴挑水的人，直到今日。
And Joshua made them that day hewers of wood and drawers of water for the congregation, and for the altar of the LORD, even unto this day, in the place which he should choose.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


10:1    耶路撒冷王亞多尼洗德聽見約書亞奪了艾城，盡行毀滅，怎樣待耶利哥和耶利哥的王，也照樣待艾城和艾城的王，又聽見基遍的居民與以色列人立了和約，住在他們中間，
Now it came to pass, when Adonizedec king of Jerusalem had heard how Joshua had taken Ai, and had utterly destroyed it; as he had done to Jericho and her king, so he had done to Ai and her king; and how the inhabitants of Gibeon had made peace with Israel, and were among them;

10:2    就甚懼怕。因為基遍是一座大城，如都城一般，比艾城更大，並且城內的人都是勇士。
That they feared greatly, because Gibeon was a great city, as one of the royal cities, and because it was greater than Ai, and all the men thereof were mighty.

10:3    所以耶路撒冷王亞多尼洗德打發人去見希伯侖王何鹹，耶末王毗蘭，拉吉王雅非亞，和伊磯倫王底璧，說，
Wherefore Adonizedec king of Jerusalem sent unto Hoham king of Hebron, and unto Piram king of Jarmuth, and unto Japhia king of Lachish, and unto Debir king of Eglon, saying,

10:4    求你們上來幫助我，我們好攻打基遍，因為他們與約書亞和以色列人立了和約。
Come up unto me, and help me, that we may smite Gibeon: for it hath made peace with Joshua and with the children of Israel.

10:5    於是五個亞摩利王，就是耶路撒冷王，希伯侖王，耶末王，拉吉王，伊磯倫王，大家聚集，率領他們的眾軍上去，對著基遍安營，攻打基遍。
Therefore the five kings of the Amorites, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, the king of Eglon, gathered themselves together, and went up, they and all their hosts, and encamped before Gibeon, and made war against it.

10:6    基遍人就打發人往吉甲的營中去見約書亞，說，你不要袖手不顧你的僕人，求你速速上來拯救我們，幫助我們，因為住山地亞摩利人的諸王都聚集攻擊我們。
And the men of Gibeon sent unto Joshua to the camp to Gilgal, saying, Slack not thy hand from thy servants; come up to us quickly, and save us, and help us: for all the kings of the Amorites that dwell in the mountains are gathered together against us.

10:7    於是約書亞和他一切兵丁，並大能的勇士，都從吉甲上去。
So Joshua ascended from Gilgal, he, and all the people of war with him, and all the mighty men of valour.

10:8    耶和華對約書亞說，不要怕他們。因為我已將他們交在你手裡，他們無一人能在你面前刪立得住。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, Fear them not: for I have delivered them into thine hand; there shall not a man of them stand before thee.

10:9    約書亞就終夜從吉甲上去，猛然臨到他們那裡。
Joshua therefore came unto them suddenly, and went up from Gilgal all night.

10:10    耶和華使他們在以色列人面前潰亂。約書亞在基遍大大地殺敗他們，追趕他們，在伯和侖的上坡路擊殺他們，直到亞西加和瑪基大。
And the LORD discomfited them before Israel, and slew them with a great slaughter at Gibeon, and chased them along the way that goeth up to Bethhoron, and smote them to Azekah, and unto Makkedah.

10:11    他們在以色列人面前逃跑，正在伯和侖下坡的時候，耶和華從天上降大冰雹（冰雹原文作石頭）在他們身上，直降到亞西加，打死他們。被冰雹打死的，比以色列人用刀殺死的還多。
And it came to pass, as they fled from before Israel, and were in the going down to Bethhoron, that the LORD cast down great stones from heaven upon them unto Azekah, and they died: they were more which died with hailstones than they whom the children of Israel slew with the sword.

10:12    當耶和華將亞摩利人交付以色列人的日子，約書亞就禱告耶和華，在以色列人眼前說，日頭阿，你要停在基遍。月亮阿，你要止在亞雅侖谷。
Then spake Joshua to the LORD in the day when the LORD delivered up the Amorites before the children of Israel, and he said in the sight of Israel, Sun, stand thou still upon Gibeon; and thou, Moon, in the valley of Ajalon.

10:13    於是日頭停留，月亮止住，直等國民向敵人報仇。這事豈不是寫在雅煞珥書上嗎。日頭在天當中停住，不急速下落，約有一日之久。
And the sun stood still, and the moon stayed, until the people had avenged themselves upon their enemies. Is not this written in the book of Jasher? So the sun stood still in the midst of heaven, and hasted not to go down about a whole day.

10:14    在這日以前，這日以後，耶和華聽人的禱告，沒有像這日的，是因耶和華為以色列爭戰。
And there was no day like that before it or after it, that the LORD hearkened unto the voice of a man: for the LORD fought for Israel.

10:15    約書亞和以色列眾人回到吉甲的營中。
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp to Gilgal.

10:16    那五王逃跑，藏在瑪基大洞裡。
But these five kings fled, and hid themselves in a cave at Makkedah.

10:17    有人告訴約書亞說，那五王已經找到了，都藏在瑪基大洞裡。
And it was told Joshua, saying, The five kings are found hid in a cave at Makkedah.

10:18    約書亞說，你們把幾塊大石頭滾到洞口，派人看守，
And Joshua said, Roll great stones upon the mouth of the cave, and set men by it for to keep them:

10:19    你們卻不可耽延，要追趕你們的仇敵，擊殺他們盡後邊的人，不容他們進自己的城邑，因為耶和華你們的神已經把他們交在你們手裡。
And stay ye not, but pursue after your enemies, and smite the hindmost of them; suffer them not to enter into their cities: for the LORD your God hath delivered them into your hand.

10:20    約書亞和以色列人大大殺敗他們，直到將他們滅盡。其中剩下的人都進了堅固的城。
And it came to pass, when Joshua and the children of Israel had made an end of slaying them with a very great slaughter, till they were consumed, that the rest which remained of them entered into fenced cities.

10:21    眾百姓就安然回瑪基大營中，到約書亞那裡。沒有一人敢向以色列人饒舌。
And all the people returned to the camp to Joshua at Makkedah in peace: none moved his tongue against any of the children of Israel.

10:22    約書亞說，開啟洞口，將那五王從洞裡帶出來，領到我面前。
Then said Joshua, Open the mouth of the cave, and bring out those five kings unto me out of the cave.

10:23    眾人就這樣行，將那五王，就是耶路撒冷王，希伯侖王，耶末王，拉吉王，伊磯倫王，從洞裡帶出來，領到約書亞面前。
And they did so, and brought forth those five kings unto him out of the cave, the king of Jerusalem, the king of Hebron, the king of Jarmuth, the king of Lachish, and the king of Eglon.

10:24    帶出那五王到約書亞面前的時候，約書亞就召了以色列眾人來，對那些和他同去的軍長說，你們近前來，把腳踏在這些王的頸項上。他們就近前來，把腳踏在這些王的頸項上。
And it came to pass, when they brought out those kings unto Joshua, that Joshua called for all the men of Israel, and said unto the captains of the men of war which went with him, Come near, put your feet upon the necks of these kings. And they came near, and put their feet upon the necks of them.

10:25    約書亞對他們說，你們不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。應當剛強壯膽，因為耶和華必這樣待你們所要攻打的一切仇敵。
And Joshua said unto them, Fear not, nor be dismayed, be strong and of good courage: for thus shall the LORD do to all your enemies against whom ye fight.

10:26    隨後約書亞將這五王殺死，掛在五棵樹上。他們就在樹上直掛到晚上。
And afterward Joshua smote them, and slew them, and hanged them on five trees: and they were hanging upon the trees until the evening.

10:27    日頭要落的時候，約書亞一吩咐，人就把屍首從樹上取下來，丟在他們藏過的洞裡，把幾塊大石頭放在洞口，直存到今日。
And it came to pass at the time of the going down of the sun, that Joshua commanded, and they took them down off the trees, and cast them into the cave wherein they had been hid, and laid great stones in the cave's mouth, which remain until this very day.

10:28    當日，約書亞奪了瑪基大，用刀擊殺城中的人和王。將其中一切人口盡行殺滅，沒有留下一個。他待瑪基大王，像從前待耶利哥王一樣。
And that day Joshua took Makkedah, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and the king thereof he utterly destroyed, them, and all the souls that were therein; he let none remain: and he did to the king of Makkedah as he did unto the king of Jericho.

10:29    約書亞和以色列眾人從瑪基大往立拿去，攻打立拿。
Then Joshua passed from Makkedah, and all Israel with him, unto Libnah, and fought against Libnah:

10:30    耶和華將立拿和立拿的王也交在以色列人手裡。約書亞攻打這城，用刀擊殺了城中的一切人口，沒有留下一個。他待立拿王，像從前待耶利哥王一樣。
And the LORD delivered it also, and the king thereof, into the hand of Israel; and he smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein; he let none remain in it; but did unto the king thereof as he did unto the king of Jericho.

10:31    約書亞和以色列眾人從立拿往拉吉去，對著拉吉安營，攻打這城。
And Joshua passed from Libnah, and all Israel with him, unto Lachish, and encamped against it, and fought against it:

10:32    耶和華將拉吉交在以色列人的手裡。第二天約書亞就奪了拉吉，用刀擊殺了城中的一切人口，是照他向立拿一切所行的。
And the LORD delivered Lachish into the hand of Israel, which took it on the second day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein, according to all that he had done to Libnah.

10:33    那時基色王荷蘭上來幫助拉吉，約書亞就把他和他的民都擊殺了，沒有留下一個。
Then Horam king of Gezer came up to help Lachish; and Joshua smote him and his people, until he had left him none remaining.

10:34    約書亞和以色列眾人從拉吉往伊磯倫去，對著伊磯倫安營，攻打這城。
And from Lachish Joshua passed unto Eglon, and all Israel with him; and they encamped against it, and fought against it:

10:35    當日就奪了城，用刀擊殺了城中的人。那日，約書亞將城中的一切人口盡行殺滅，是照他向拉吉一切所行的。
And they took it on that day, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and all the souls that were therein he utterly destroyed that day, according to all that he had done to Lachish.

10:36    約書亞和以色列眾人從伊磯倫上希伯侖去，攻打這城，
And Joshua went up from Eglon, and all Israel with him, unto Hebron; and they fought against it:

10:37    就奪了希伯侖和屬希伯侖的諸城邑，用刀將城中的人與王，並那些城邑中的人口，都擊殺了，沒有留下一個，是照他向伊磯倫所行的，把城中的一切人口盡行殺滅。
And they took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and the king thereof, and all the cities thereof, and all the souls that were therein; he left none remaining, according to all that he had done to Eglon; but destroyed it utterly, and all the souls that were therein.

10:38    約書亞和以色列眾人回到底璧，攻打這城，
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, to Debir; and fought against it:

10:39    就奪了底璧和屬底璧的城邑，又擒獲底璧的王，用刀將這些城中的人口盡行殺滅，沒有留下一個。他待底璧和底璧王，像從前待希伯侖和立拿與立拿王一樣。
And he took it, and the king thereof, and all the cities thereof; and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and utterly destroyed all the souls that were therein; he left none remaining: as he had done to Hebron, so he did to Debir, and to the king thereof; as he had done also to Libnah, and to her king.

10:40    這樣，約書亞擊殺全地的人，就是山地，南地，高原，山坡的人，和那些地的諸王，沒有留下一個。將凡有氣息的盡行殺滅，正如耶和華以色列的神所吩咐的。
So Joshua smote all the country of the hills, and of the south, and of the vale, and of the springs, and all their kings: he left none remaining, but utterly destroyed all that breathed, as the LORD God of Israel commanded.

10:41    約書亞從加低斯巴尼亞攻擊到迦薩，又攻擊歌珊全地，直到基遍。
And Joshua smote them from Kadeshbarnea even unto Gaza, and all the country of Goshen, even unto Gibeon.

10:42    約書亞一時殺敗了這些王，並奪了他們的地，因為耶和華以色列的神為以色列爭戰。
And all these kings and their land did Joshua take at one time, because the LORD God of Israel fought for Israel.

10:43    於是約書亞和以色列眾人回到吉甲的營中。
And Joshua returned, and all Israel with him, unto the camp to Gilgal.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


11:1    夏瑣王耶賓聽見這事，就打發人去見瑪頓王約巴，伸侖王，押煞王，
And it came to pass, when Jabin king of Hazor had heard those things, that he sent to Jobab king of Madon, and to the king of Shimron, and to the king of Achshaph,

11:2    與北方山地，基尼烈南邊的亞拉巴高原，並西邊多珥山岡的諸王。
And to the kings that were on the north of the mountains, and of the plains south of Chinneroth, and in the valley, and in the borders of Dor on the west,

11:3    又去見東方和西方的迦南人，與山地的亞摩利人，赫人，比利洗人，耶布斯人，並黑門山根米斯巴地的希未人。
And to the Canaanite on the east and on the west, and to the Amorite, and the Hittite, and the Perizzite, and the Jebusite in the mountains, and to the Hivite under Hermon in the land of Mizpeh.

11:4    這些王和他們的眾軍都出來，人數多如海邊的沙，並有許多馬匹車輛。
And they went out, they and all their hosts with them, much people, even as the sand that is upon the sea shore in multitude, with horses and chariots very many.

11:5    這諸王會合，來到米倫水邊，一同安營，要與以色列人爭戰。
And when all these kings were met together, they came and pitched together at the waters of Merom, to fight against Israel.

11:6    耶和華對約書亞說，你不要因他們懼怕。明日這時，我必將他們交付以色列人全然殺了。你要砍斷他們馬的蹄筋，用火焚燒他們的車輛。
And the LORD said unto Joshua, Be not afraid because of them: for to morrow about this time will I deliver them up all slain before Israel: thou shalt hough their horses, and burn their chariots with fire.

11:7    於是約書亞率領一切兵丁，在米倫水邊突然向前攻打他們。
So Joshua came, and all the people of war with him, against them by the waters of Merom suddenly; and they fell upon them.

11:8    耶和華將他們交在以色列人手裡，以色列人就擊殺他們，追趕他們到西頓大城，到米斯利弗瑪音，直到東邊米斯巴的平原，將他們擊殺，沒有留下一個。
And the LORD delivered them into the hand of Israel, who smote them, and chased them unto great Zidon, and unto Misrephothmaim, and unto the valley of Mizpeh eastward; and they smote them, until they left them none remaining.

11:9    約書亞就照耶和華所吩咐他的去行，砍斷他們馬的蹄筋，用火焚燒他們的車輛。
And Joshua did unto them as the LORD bade him: he houghed their horses, and burnt their chariots with fire.

11:10    當時，約書亞轉回奪了夏瑣，用刀擊殺夏瑣王。素來夏瑣在這諸國中是為首的。
And Joshua at that time turned back, and took Hazor, and smote the king thereof with the sword: for Hazor beforetime was the head of all those kingdoms.

11:11    以色列人用刀擊殺城中的人口，將他們盡行殺滅。凡有氣息的沒有留下一個。約書亞又用火焚燒夏瑣。
And they smote all the souls that were therein with the edge of the sword, utterly destroying them: there was not any left to breathe: and he burnt Hazor with fire.

11:12    約書亞奪了這些王的一切城邑，擒獲其中的諸王，用刀擊殺他們，將他們盡行殺滅，正如耶和華僕人摩西所吩咐的。
And all the cities of those kings, and all the kings of them, did Joshua take, and smote them with the edge of the sword, and he utterly destroyed them, as Moses the servant of the LORD commanded.

11:13    至於造在山岡上的城，除了夏瑣以外，以色列人都沒有焚燒。約書亞只將夏瑣焚燒了。
But as for the cities that stood still in their strength, Israel burned none of them, save Hazor only; that did Joshua burn.

11:14    那些城邑所有的財物和牲畜，以色列人都取為自己的掠物。惟有一切人口都用刀擊殺，直到殺盡。凡有氣息的沒有留下一個。
And all the spoil of these cities, and the cattle, the children of Israel took for a prey unto themselves; but every man they smote with the edge of the sword, until they had destroyed them, neither left they any to breathe.

11:15    耶和華怎樣吩咐他僕人摩西，摩西就照樣吩咐約書亞，約書亞也照樣行。凡耶和華所吩咐摩西的，約書亞沒有一件懈怠不行的。
As the LORD commanded Moses his servant, so did Moses command Joshua, and so did Joshua; he left nothing undone of all that the LORD commanded Moses.

11:16    約書亞奪了那全地，就是山地，一帶南地，歌珊全地，高原，亞拉巴，以色列的山地，和山下的高原。
So Joshua took all that land, the hills, and all the south country, and all the land of Goshen, and the valley, and the plain, and the mountain of Israel, and the valley of the same;

11:17    從上西珥的哈拉山，直到黑門山下黎巴嫩平原的巴力迦得，並且擒獲那些地的諸王，將他們殺死。
Even from the mount Halak, that goeth up to Seir, even unto Baalgad in the valley of Lebanon under mount Hermon: and all their kings he took, and smote them, and slew them.

11:18    約書亞和這諸王爭戰了許多年日。
Joshua made war a long time with all those kings.

11:19    除了基遍的希未人之外，沒有一城與以色列人講和的，都是以色列人爭戰奪來的。
There was not a city that made peace with the children of Israel, save the Hivites the inhabitants of Gibeon: all other they took in battle.

11:20    因為耶和華的意思是要使他們心裡剛硬，來與以色列人爭戰，好叫他們盡被殺滅，不蒙憐憫，正如耶和華所吩咐摩西的。
For it was of the LORD to harden their hearts, that they should come against Israel in battle, that he might destroy them utterly, and that they might have no favour, but that he might destroy them, as the LORD commanded Moses.

11:21    當時約書亞來到，將住山地，希伯侖，底璧，亞拿伯，猶大山地，以色列山地所有的亞衲族人剪除了。約書亞將他們和他們的城邑盡都毀滅。
And at that time came Joshua, and cut off the Anakims from the mountains, from Hebron, from Debir, from Anab, and from all the mountains of Judah, and from all the mountains of Israel: Joshua destroyed them utterly with their cities.

11:22    在以色列人的地沒有留下一個亞衲族人，只在迦薩，迦特，和亞實突有留下的。
There was none of the Anakims left in the land of the children of Israel: only in Gaza, in Gath, and in Ashdod, there remained.

11:23    這樣，約書亞照著耶和華所吩咐摩西的一切話奪了那全地，就按著以色列支派的宗族將地分給他們為業。於是國中太平，沒有爭戰了。
So Joshua took the whole land, according to all that the LORD said unto Moses; and Joshua gave it for an inheritance unto Israel according to their divisions by their tribes. And the land rested from war.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


12:1    以色列人在約旦河外向日出之地擊殺二王，得他們的地，就是從亞嫩谷直到黑門山，並東邊的全亞拉巴之地。
Now these are the kings of the land, which the children of Israel smote, and possessed their land on the other side Jordan toward the rising of the sun, from the river Arnon unto mount Hermon, and all the plain on the east:

12:2    這二王，有住希實本，亞摩利人的王西巨集。他所管之地是從亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥和谷中的城，並基列一半，直到亞捫人的境界，雅博河
Sihon king of the Amorites, who dwelt in Heshbon, and ruled from Aroer, which is upon the bank of the river Arnon, and from the middle of the river, and from half Gilead, even unto the river Jabbok, which is the border of the children of Ammon;

12:3    與約旦河東邊的亞拉巴，直到基尼烈海，又到亞拉巴的海，就是鹽海，通伯耶西末的路，以及南方，直到毗斯迦的山根。
And from the plain to the sea of Chinneroth on the east, and unto the sea of the plain, even the salt sea on the east, the way to Bethjeshimoth; and from the south, under Ashdothpisgah:

12:4    又有巴珊王噩。他是利乏音人所剩下的，住在亞斯他錄和以得來。
And the coast of Og king of Bashan, which was of the remnant of the giants, that dwelt at Ashtaroth and at Edrei,

12:5    他所管之地是黑門山，撒迦，巴珊全地，直到基述人和瑪迦人的境界，並基列一半，直到希實本王西巨集的境界。
And reigned in mount Hermon, and in Salcah, and in all Bashan, unto the border of the Geshurites and the Maachathites, and half Gilead, the border of Sihon king of Heshbon.

12:6    這二王是耶和華僕人摩西和以色列人所擊殺的。耶和華僕人摩西將他們的地賜給流便人，迦得人，和瑪拿西半支派的人為業。
Them did Moses the servant of the LORD and the children of Israel smite: and Moses the servant of the LORD gave it for a possession unto the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh.

12:7    約書亞和以色列人在約旦河西擊殺了諸王。他們的地是從黎巴嫩平原的巴力迦得，直到上西珥的哈拉山。約書亞就將那地按著以色列支派的宗族分給他們為業，
And these are the kings of the country which Joshua and the children of Israel smote on this side Jordan on the west, from Baalgad in the valley of Lebanon even unto the mount Halak, that goeth up to Seir; which Joshua gave unto the tribes of Israel for a possession according to their divisions;

12:8    就是赫人，亞摩利人，迦南人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人的山地，高原亞拉巴，山坡，曠野，和南地。
In the mountains, and in the valleys, and in the plains, and in the springs, and in the wilderness, and in the south country; the Hittites, the Amorites, and the Canaanites, the Perizzites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites:

12:9    他們的王，一個是耶利哥王，一個是靠近伯特利的艾城王，
The king of Jericho, one; the king of Ai, which is beside Bethel, one;

12:10    一個是耶路撒冷王，一個是希伯侖王，
The king of Jerusalem, one; the king of Hebron, one;

12:11    一個是耶末王，一個是拉吉王，
The king of Jarmuth, one; the king of Lachish, one;

12:12    一個是伊磯倫王，一個是基色王，
The king of Eglon, one; the king of Gezer, one;

12:13    一個是底璧王，一個是基德王，
The king of Debir, one; the king of Geder, one;

12:14    一個是何珥瑪王，一個是亞拉得王，
The king of Hormah, one; the king of Arad, one;

12:15    一個是立拿王，一個是亞杜蘭王，
The king of Libnah, one; the king of Adullam, one;

12:16    一個是瑪基大王，一個是伯特利王，
The king of Makkedah, one; the king of Bethel, one;

12:17    一個是他普亞王，一個是希弗王，
The king of Tappuah, one; the king of Hepher, one;

12:18    一個是亞弗王，一個是拉沙崙王，
The king of Aphek, one; the king of Lasharon, one;

12:19    一個是瑪頓王，一個是夏瑣王，
The king of Madon, one; the king of Hazor, one;

12:20    一個是伸侖米侖王，一個是押煞王，
The king of Shimronmeron, one; the king of Achshaph, one;

12:21    一個是他納王，一個是米吉多王，
The king of Taanach, one; the king of Megiddo, one;

12:22    一個是基低斯王，一個是靠近迦密的約念王，
The king of Kedesh, one; the king of Jokneam of Carmel, one;

12:23    一個是多珥山岡的多珥王，一個是吉甲的戈印王，
The king of Dor in the coast of Dor, one; the king of the nations of Gilgal, one;

12:24    一個是得撒王。共計三十一個王。
The king of Tirzah, one: all the kings thirty and one.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


13:1    約書亞年紀老邁，耶和華對他說，你年紀老邁了，還有許多未得之地，
Now Joshua was old and stricken in years; and the LORD said unto him, Thou art old and stricken in years, and there remaineth yet very much land to be possessed.

13:2    就是非利士人的全境和基述人的全地。
This is the land that yet remaineth: all the borders of the Philistines, and all Geshuri,

13:3    從埃及前的西曷河往北，直到以革倫的境界，就算屬迦南人之地。有非利士人五個首領所管的迦薩人，亞實突人，亞實基倫人，迦特人，以革倫人之地，並有南方亞衛人之地。
From Sihor, which is before Egypt, even unto the borders of Ekron northward, which is counted to the Canaanite: five lords of the Philistines; the Gazathites, and the Ashdothites, the Eshkalonites, the Gittites, and the Ekronites; also the Avites:

13:4    又有迦南人的全地，並屬西頓人的米亞拉到亞弗，直到亞摩利人的境界。
From the south, all the land of the Canaanites, and Mearah that is beside the Sidonians unto Aphek, to the borders of the Amorites:

13:5    還有迦巴勒人之地，並向日出的全黎巴嫩，就是從黑門山根的巴力迦得，直到哈馬口。
And the land of the Giblites, and all Lebanon, toward the sunrising, from Baalgad under mount Hermon unto the entering into Hamath.

13:6    山地的一切居民，從黎巴嫩直到米斯利弗瑪音，就是所有的西頓人，我必在以色列人面前趕出他們去。你只管照我所吩咐的，將這地拈鬮分給以色列人為業。
All the inhabitants of the hill country from Lebanon unto Misrephothmaim, and all the Sidonians, them will I drive out from before the children of Israel: only divide thou it by lot unto the Israelites for an inheritance, as I have commanded thee.

13:7    現在你要把這地分給九個支派和瑪拿西半個支派為業。
Now therefore divide this land for an inheritance unto the nine tribes, and the half tribe of Manasseh,

13:8    瑪拿西那半支派和流便，迦得二支派已經受了產業，就是耶和華的僕人摩西在約旦河東所賜給他們的，
With whom the Reubenites and the Gadites have received their inheritance, which Moses gave them, beyond Jordan eastward, even as Moses the servant of the LORD gave them;

13:9    是從亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥和谷中的城，並米底巴的全平原，直到底本，
From Aroer, that is upon the bank of the river Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain of Medeba unto Dibon;

13:10    和在希實本作王亞摩利王西巨集的諸城，直到亞捫人的境界。
And all the cities of Sihon king of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, unto the border of the children of Ammon;

13:11    又有基列地，基述人，瑪迦人的地界，並黑門全山，巴珊全地，直到撒迦。
And Gilead, and the border of the Geshurites and Maachathites, and all mount Hermon, and all Bashan unto Salcah;

13:12    又有巴珊王噩的全國。他在亞斯他錄和以得來作王（利乏音人所存留的只剩下他）。這些地的人都是摩西所擊殺，所趕逐的。
All the kingdom of Og in Bashan, which reigned in Ashtaroth and in Edrei, who remained of the remnant of the giants: for these did Moses smite, and cast them out.

13:13    以色列人卻沒有趕逐基述人，瑪迦人。這些人仍住在以色列中，直到今日。
Nevertheless the children of Israel expelled not the Geshurites, nor the Maachathites: but the Geshurites and the Maachathites dwell among the Israelites until this day.

13:14    只是利未支派，摩西（原文作他）沒有把產業分給他們。他們的產業乃是獻與耶和華以色列神的火祭，正如耶和華所應許他們的。
Only unto the tribe of Levi he gave none inheritance; the sacrifices of the LORD God of Israel made by fire are their inheritance, as he said unto them.

13:15    摩西按著流便支派的宗族分給他們產業。
And Moses gave unto the tribe of the children of Reuben inheritance according to their families.

13:16    他們的境界是亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥和谷中的城，靠近米底巴的全平原。
And their coast was from Aroer, that is on the bank of the river Arnon, and the city that is in the midst of the river, and all the plain by Medeba;

13:17    希實本並屬希實本平原的各城，底本，巴末巴力，伯巴力勉，
Heshbon, and all her cities that are in the plain; Dibon, and Bamothbaal, and Bethbaalmeon,

13:18    雅雜，基底莫，米法押，
And Jahaza, and Kedemoth, and Mephaath,

13:19    基列亭，西比瑪，谷中山的細列哈沙轄，
And Kirjathaim, and Sibmah, and Zarethshahar in the mount of the valley,

13:20    伯毗珥，毗斯迦山坡，伯耶西末。
And Bethpeor, and Ashdothpisgah, and Bethjeshimoth,

13:21    平原的各城，並亞摩利王西巨集的全國。這西巨集曾在希實本作王，摩西把他和米甸的族長以未，利金，蘇珥，戶珥，利巴擊殺了。這都是住那地屬西巨集為首領的。
And all the cities of the plain, and all the kingdom of Sihon king of the Amorites, which reigned in Heshbon, whom Moses smote with the princes of Midian, Evi, and Rekem, and Zur, and Hur, and Reba, which were dukes of Sihon, dwelling in the country.

13:22    那時以色列人在所殺的人中，也用刀殺了比珥的兒子術士巴蘭。
Balaam also the son of Beor, the soothsayer, did the children of Israel slay with the sword among them that were slain by them.

13:23    流便人的境界就是約旦河與靠近約旦河的地。以上是流便人按著宗族所得為業的諸城，並屬城的村莊。
And the border of the children of Reuben was Jordan, and the border thereof. This was the inheritance of the children of Reuben after their families, the cities and the villages thereof.

13:24    摩西按著迦得支派的宗族分給他們產業。
And Moses gave inheritance unto the tribe of Gad, even unto the children of Gad according to their families.

13:25    他們的境界是雅謝和基列的各城，並亞捫人的一半地，直到拉巴前的亞羅珥。
And their coast was Jazer, and all the cities of Gilead, and half the land of the children of Ammon, unto Aroer that is before Rabbah;

13:26    從希實本到拉抹米斯巴和比多寧，又從瑪哈唸到底璧的境界，
And from Heshbon unto Ramathmizpeh, and Betonim; and from Mahanaim unto the border of Debir;

13:27    並谷中的伯亞蘭，伯寧拉，疏割，撒分，就是希實本王西巨集國中的餘地，以及約旦河與靠近約旦河的地，直到基尼烈海的極邊，都在約旦河東。
And in the valley, Betharam, and Bethnimrah, and Succoth, and Zaphon, the rest of the kingdom of Sihon king of Heshbon, Jordan and his border, even unto the edge of the sea of Chinnereth on the other side Jordan eastward.

13:28    以上是迦得人按著宗族所得為業的諸城，並屬城的村莊。
This is the inheritance of the children of Gad after their families, the cities, and their villages.

13:29    摩西把產業分給瑪拿西半支派，是按著瑪拿西半支派的宗族所分的。
And Moses gave inheritance unto the half tribe of Manasseh: and this was the possession of the half tribe of the children of Manasseh by their families.

13:30    他們的境界是從瑪哈念起，包括巴珊全地，就是巴珊王噩的全國，並在巴珊，睚珥的一切城邑，共六十個。
And their coast was from Mahanaim, all Bashan, all the kingdom of Og king of Bashan, and all the towns of Jair, which are in Bashan, threescore cities:

13:31    基列的一半，並亞斯他錄，以得來，就是屬巴珊王噩國的二城，是按著宗族給瑪拿西的兒子瑪吉的一半子孫。
And half Gilead, and Ashtaroth, and Edrei, cities of the kingdom of Og in Bashan, were pertaining unto the children of Machir the son of Manasseh, even to the one half of the children of Machir by their families.

13:32    以上是摩西在約旦河東對著耶利哥的摩押平原所分給他們的產業。
These are the countries which Moses did distribute for inheritance in the plains of Moab, on the other side Jordan, by Jericho, eastward.

13:33    只是利未支派，摩西沒有把產業分給他們。耶和華以色列的神是他們的產業，正如耶和華所應許他們的。
But unto the tribe of Levi Moses gave not any inheritance: the LORD God of Israel was their inheritance, as he said unto them.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


14:1    以色列人在迦南地所得的產業，就是祭司以利亞撒和嫩的兒子約書亞，並以色列各支派的族長所分給他們的，都記在下面，
And these are the countries which the children of Israel inherited in the land of Canaan, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, distributed for inheritance to them.

14:2    是照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的，把產業拈鬮分給九個半支派。
By lot was their inheritance, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses, for the nine tribes, and for the half tribe.

14:3    原來，摩西在約旦河東已經把產業分給那兩個半支派，只是在他們中間沒有把產業分給利未人。
For Moses had given the inheritance of two tribes and an half tribe on the other side Jordan: but unto the Levites he gave none inheritance among them.

14:4    因為約瑟的子孫是兩個支派，就是瑪拿西和以法蓮，所以沒有把地分給利未人，但給他們城邑居住，並城邑的郊野，可以牧養他們的牲畜，安置他們的財物。
For the children of Joseph were two tribes, Manasseh and Ephraim: therefore they gave no part unto the Levites in the land, save cities to dwell in, with their suburbs for their cattle and for their substance.

14:5    耶和華怎樣吩咐摩西，以色列人就照樣行，把地分了。
As the LORD commanded Moses, so the children of Israel did, and they divided the land.

14:6    那時，猶大人來到吉甲見約書亞，有基尼洗族耶孚尼的兒子迦勒對約書亞說，耶和華在加低斯巴尼亞指著我與你對神人摩西所說的話，你都知道了。
Then the children of Judah came unto Joshua in Gilgal: and Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite said unto him, Thou knowest the thing that the LORD said unto Moses the man of God concerning me and thee in Kadeshbarnea.

14:7    耶和華的僕人摩西從加低斯巴尼亞打發我窺探這地，那時我正四十歲。我按著心意回報他。
Forty years old was I when Moses the servant of the LORD sent me from Kadeshbarnea to espy out the land; and I brought him word again as it was in mine heart.

14:8    然而，同我上去的眾弟兄使百姓的心消化。但我專心跟從耶和華我的神。
Nevertheless my brethren that went up with me made the heart of the people melt: but I wholly followed the LORD my God.

14:9    當日摩西起誓說，你腳所踏之地定要歸你和你的子孫永遠為業，因為你專心跟從耶和華我的神。
And Moses sware on that day, saying, Surely the land whereon thy feet have trodden shall be thine inheritance, and thy children's for ever, because thou hast wholly followed the LORD my God.

14:10    自從耶和華對摩西說這話的時候，耶和華照他所應許的使我存活這四十五年。其間以色列人在曠野行走。看哪，現今我八十五歲了，
And now, behold, the LORD hath kept me alive, as he said, these forty and five years, even since the LORD spake this word unto Moses, while the children of Israel wandered in the wilderness: and now, lo, I am this day fourscore and five years old.

14:11    我還是強壯，像摩西打發我去的那天一樣。無論是爭戰，是出入，我的力量那時如何，現在還是如何。
As yet I am as strong this day as I was in the day that Moses sent me: as my strength was then, even so is my strength now, for war, both to go out, and to come in.

14:12    求你將耶和華那日應許我的這山地給我。那裡有亞衲族人，並寬大堅固的城，你也曾聽見了。或者耶和華照他所應許的與我同在，我就把他們趕出去。
Now therefore give me this mountain, whereof the LORD spake in that day; for thou heardest in that day how the Anakims were there, and that the cities were great and fenced: if so be the LORD will be with me, then I shall be able to drive them out, as the LORD said.



14:13    於是約書亞為耶孚尼的兒子迦勒祝福，將希伯侖給他為業。
And Joshua blessed him, and gave unto Caleb the son of Jephunneh Hebron for an inheritance.

14:14    所以希伯侖作了基尼洗族耶孚尼的兒子迦勒的產業，直到今日，因為他專心跟從耶和華以色列的神。
Hebron therefore became the inheritance of Caleb the son of Jephunneh the Kenezite unto this day, because that he wholly followed the LORD God of Israel.

14:15    希伯侖從前名叫基列亞巴。亞巴是亞衲族中最尊大的人。於是國中太平，沒有爭戰了。
And the name of Hebron before was Kirjatharba; which Arba was a great man among the Anakims. And the land had rest from war.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


15:1    猶大支派按著宗族拈鬮所得之地是在盡南邊，到以東的交界，向南直到尋的曠野。
This then was the lot of the tribe of the children of Judah by their families; even to the border of Edom the wilderness of Zin southward was the uttermost part of the south coast.

15:2    他們的南界是從鹽海的盡邊，就是從朝南的海汊起，
And their south border was from the shore of the salt sea, from the bay that looketh southward:

15:3    通到亞克拉浜坡的南邊，接連到尋，上到加低斯巴尼亞的南邊，又過希斯崙，上到亞達珥，繞到甲加，
And it went out to the south side to Maalehacrabbim, and passed along to Zin, and ascended up on the south side unto Kadeshbarnea, and passed along to Hezron, and went up to Adar, and fetched a compass to Karkaa:

15:4    接連到押們，通到埃及小河，直通到海為止。這就是他們的南界。
From thence it passed toward Azmon, and went out unto the river of Egypt; and the goings out of that coast were at the sea: this shall be your south coast.

15:5    東界是從鹽海南邊到約旦河口。北界是從約旦河口的海汊起，
And the east border was the salt sea, even unto the end of Jordan. And their border in the north quarter was from the bay of the sea at the uttermost part of Jordan:

15:6    上到伯曷拉，過伯亞拉巴的北邊，上到流便之子波罕的磐石。
And the border went up to Bethhogla, and passed along by the north of Betharabah; and the border went up to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben:

15:7    從亞割谷往北，上到底璧，直向河南亞都冥坡對面的吉甲。又接連到隱示麥泉，直通到隱羅結，
And the border went up toward Debir from the valley of Achor, and so northward, looking toward Gilgal, that is before the going up to Adummim, which is on the south side of the river: and the border passed toward the waters of Enshemesh, and the goings out thereof were at Enrogel:

15:8    上到欣嫩子谷，貼近耶布斯的南界（耶布斯就是耶路撒冷）。又上到欣嫩谷西邊的山頂，就是在利乏音谷極北的邊界。
And the border went up by the valley of the son of Hinnom unto the south side of the Jebusite; the same is Jerusalem: and the border went up to the top of the mountain that lieth before the valley of Hinnom westward, which is at the end of the valley of the giants northward:

15:9    又從山頂延到尼弗多亞的水源，通到以弗侖山的城邑，又延到巴拉（巴拉就是基列耶琳）。
And the border was drawn from the top of the hill unto the fountain of the water of Nephtoah, and went out to the cities of mount Ephron; and the border was drawn to Baalah, which is Kirjathjearim:

15:10    又從巴拉往西繞到西珥山，接連到耶琳山的北邊（耶琳就是基撒侖）。又下到伯示麥過亭納，
And the border compassed from Baalah westward unto mount Seir, and passed along unto the side of mount Jearim, which is Chesalon, on the north side, and went down to Bethshemesh, and passed on to Timnah:

15:11    通到以革倫北邊，延到施基侖，接連到巴拉山。又通到雅比聶，直通到海為止。
And the border went out unto the side of Ekron northward: and the border was drawn to Shicron, and passed along to mount Baalah, and went out unto Jabneel; and the goings out of the border were at the sea.

15:12    西界就是大海和靠近大海之地。這是猶大人按著宗族所得之地四圍的交界。
And the west border was to the great sea, and the coast thereof. This is the coast of the children of Judah round about according to their families.

15:13    約書亞照耶和華所吩咐的，將猶大人中的一段地，就是基列亞巴，分給耶孚尼的兒子迦勒。亞巴是亞衲族的始祖（基列亞巴就是希伯侖）。
And unto Caleb the son of Jephunneh he gave a part among the children of Judah, according to the commandment of the LORD to Joshua, even the city of Arba the father of Anak, which city is Hebron.

15:14    迦勒就從那裡趕出亞衲族的三個族長，就是示篩，亞希幔，撻買。
And Caleb drove thence the three sons of Anak, Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai, the children of Anak.

15:15    又從那裡上去，攻擊底璧的居民，這底璧從前名叫基列西弗。
And he went up thence to the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kirjathsepher.

15:16    迦勒說，誰能攻打基列西弗將城奪取，我就把我女兒押撒給他為妻。
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjathsepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.

15:17    迦勒兄弟基納斯的兒子俄陀聶奪取了那城，迦勒就把女兒押撒給他為妻。
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, the brother of Caleb, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.

15:18    押撒過門的時候，勸繕夫向她父親求一塊田，押撒一下驢，迦勒問她說，你要什麼。
And it came to pass, as she came unto him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she lighted off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wouldest thou?

15:19    她說，求你賜福給我，你既將我安置在南地，求你也給我水泉。她父親就把上泉下泉賜給她。
Who answered, Give me a blessing; for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water. And he gave her the upper springs, and the nether springs.

15:20    以下是猶大支派按著宗族所得的產業。
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Judah according to their families.

15:21    猶大支派盡南邊的城邑，與以東交界相近的，就是甲薛，以得，雅姑珥，
And the uttermost cities of the tribe of the children of Judah toward the coast of Edom southward were Kabzeel, and Eder, and Jagur,

15:22    基拿，底摩拿，亞大達，
And Kinah, and Dimonah, and Adadah,

15:23    基低斯，夏瑣，以提楠，
And Kedesh, and Hazor, and Ithnan,

15:24    西弗，提鏈，比亞綠，
Ziph, and Telem, and Bealoth,

15:25    夏瑣哈大他，加略希斯崙（加略希斯崙就是夏瑣），
And Hazor, Hadattah, and Kerioth, and Hezron, which is Hazor,

15:26    亞曼，示瑪，摩拉大，
Amam, and Shema, and Moladah,

15:27    哈薩迦大，黑實門，伯帕列，
And Hazargaddah, and Heshmon, and Bethpalet,

15:28    哈薩書亞，別是巴，比斯約他，
And Hazarshual, and Beersheba, and Bizjothjah,

15:29    巴拉，以因，以森，
Baalah, and Iim, and Azem,

15:30    伊勒多臘，基失，何珥瑪，
And Eltolad, and Chesil, and Hormah,

15:31    洗革拉，麥瑪拿，三撒拿，
And Ziklag, and Madmannah, and Sansannah,

15:32    利巴勿，實忻，亞因，臨門，共二十九座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Lebaoth, and Shilhim, and Ain, and Rimmon: all the cities are twenty and nine, with their villages:

15:33    在高原有以實陶，瑣拉，亞實拿，
And in the valley, Eshtaol, and Zoreah, and Ashnah,

15:34    撒挪亞，隱幹寧，他普亞，以楠，
And Zanoah, and Engannim, Tappuah, and Enam,

15:35    耶末，亞杜蘭，梭哥，亞西加，
Jarmuth, and Adullam, Socoh, and Azekah,

15:36    沙拉音，亞底他音，基底拉，基底羅他音，共十四座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Sharaim, and Adithaim, and Gederah, and Gederothaim; fourteen cities with their villages:

15:37    又有洗楠，哈大沙，麥大迦得，
Zenan, and Hadashah, and Migdalgad,

15:38    底連，米斯巴，約帖，
And Dilean, and Mizpeh, and Joktheel,

15:39    拉吉，波斯加，伊磯倫，
Lachish, and Bozkath, and Eglon,

15:40    迦本，拉幔，基提利，
And Cabbon, and Lahmam, and Kithlish,

15:41    基低羅，伯大袞，拿瑪，瑪基大，共十六座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Gederoth, Bethdagon, and Naamah, and Makkedah; sixteen cities with their villages:

15:42    又有立拿，以帖，亞珊，
Libnah, and Ether, and Ashan,

15:43    益弗他，亞實拿，尼悉，
And Jiphtah, and Ashnah, and Nezib,

15:44    基伊拉，亞革悉，瑪利沙，共九座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Keilah, and Achzib, and Mareshah; nine cities with their villages:

15:45    又有以革倫和屬以革倫的鎮市村莊。
Ekron, with her towns and her villages:

15:46    從以革倫直到海，一切靠近亞實突之地，並屬其地的村莊。
From Ekron even unto the sea, all that lay near Ashdod, with their villages:

15:47    亞實突和屬亞實突的鎮市村莊。迦薩和屬迦薩的鎮市村莊。直到埃及小河，並大海和靠近大海之地。
Ashdod with her towns and her villages, Gaza with her towns and her villages, unto the river of Egypt, and the great sea, and the border thereof:

15:48    在山地有沙密，雅提珥，梭哥，
And in the mountains, Shamir, and Jattir, and Socoh,

15:49    大拿，基列薩拿（基列薩拿就是底璧），
And Dannah, and Kirjathsannah, which is Debir,



15:50    亞拿伯，以實提莫，亞念，
And Anab, and Eshtemoh, and Anim,

15:51    歌珊，何倫，基羅，共十一座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Goshen, and Holon, and Giloh; eleven cities with their villages:

15:52    又有亞拉，度瑪，以珊，
Arab, and Dumah, and Eshean,

15:53    雅農，伯他普亞，亞非加，
And Janum, and Bethtappuah, and Aphekah,

15:54    巨集他，基列亞巴（基列亞巴就是希伯侖），洗珥，共九座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Humtah, and Kirjatharba, which is Hebron, and Zior; nine cities with their villages:

15:55    又有瑪雲，迦密，西弗，淤他，
Maon, Carmel, and Ziph, and Juttah,

15:56    耶斯列，約甸，撒挪亞，
And Jezreel, and Jokdeam, and Zanoah,

15:57    該隱，基比亞，亭納，共十座城，還有屬城的村莊。
Cain, Gibeah, and Timnah; ten cities with their villages:

15:58    又有哈忽，伯夙，基突，
Halhul, Bethzur, and Gedor,

15:59    瑪臘，伯亞諾，伊勒提君，共六座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Maarath, and Bethanoth, and Eltekon; six cities with their villages:

15:60    又有基列巴力（基列巴力就是基列耶琳），拉巴，共兩座城，還有屬城的村莊。
Kirjathbaal, which is Kirjathjearim, and Rabbah; two cities with their villages:

15:61    在曠野有伯亞拉巴，密丁，西迦迦，
In the wilderness, Betharabah, Middin, and Secacah,

15:62    匿珊，鹽城，隱基底，共六座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Nibshan, and the city of Salt, and Engedi; six cities with their villages.

15:63    至於住耶路撒冷的耶布斯人，猶大人不能把他們趕出去，耶布斯人卻在耶路撒冷與猶大人同住，直到今日。
As for the Jebusites the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the children of Judah could not drive them out: but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Judah at Jerusalem unto this day.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


16:1    約瑟的子孫拈鬮所得之地是從靠近耶利哥的約旦河起，以耶利哥東邊的水為界，從耶利哥上去，通過山地的曠野，到伯特利。
And the lot of the children of Joseph fell from Jordan by Jericho, unto the water of Jericho on the east, to the wilderness that goeth up from Jericho throughout mount Bethel,

16:2    又從伯特利到路斯，接連到亞基人的境界，至亞他綠。
And goeth out from Bethel to Luz, and passeth along unto the borders of Archi to Ataroth,

16:3    又往西下到押利提人的境界，到下伯和侖的境界，直到基色，通到海為止。
And goeth down westward to the coast of Japhleti, unto the coast of Bethhoron the nether, and to Gezer; and the goings out thereof are at the sea.

16:4    約瑟的兒子瑪拿西，以法蓮就得了他們的地業。
So the children of Joseph, Manasseh and Ephraim, took their inheritance.

16:5    以法蓮子孫的境界，按著宗族所得的，記在下面，他們地業的東界是亞他綠亞達到上伯和侖。
And the border of the children of Ephraim according to their families was thus: even the border of their inheritance on the east side was Atarothaddar, unto Bethhoron the upper;

16:6    往西通到北邊的密米他，又向東繞到他納示羅，又接連到雅挪哈的東邊。
And the border went out toward the sea to Michmethah on the north side; and the border went about eastward unto Taanathshiloh, and passed by it on the east to Janohah;

16:7    從雅挪哈下到亞他綠，又到拿拉，達到耶利哥，通到約旦河為止。
And it went down from Janohah to Ataroth, and to Naarath, and came to Jericho, and went out at Jordan.

16:8    從他普亞往西，到加拿河，直通到海為止。這就是以法蓮支派按著宗族所得的地業。
The border went out from Tappuah westward unto the river Kanah; and the goings out thereof were at the sea. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Ephraim by their families.

16:9    另外在瑪拿西人地業中得了些城邑和屬城的村莊。這都是分給以法蓮子孫的。
And the separate cities for the children of Ephraim were among the inheritance of the children of Manasseh, all the cities with their villages.

16:10    他們沒有趕出住基色的迦南人。迦南人卻住在以法蓮人中間，成為作苦工的僕人，直到今日。
And they drave not out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer: but the Canaanites dwell among the Ephraimites unto this day, and serve under tribute.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


17:1    瑪拿西是約瑟的長子，他的支派拈鬮所得之地記在下面。至於瑪拿西的長子基列之父（或作主）瑪吉，因為是勇士就得了基列和巴珊。
There was also a lot for the tribe of Manasseh; for he was the firstborn of Joseph; to wit, for Machir the firstborn of Manasseh, the father of Gilead: because he was a man of war, therefore he had Gilead and Bashan.

17:2    瑪拿西其餘的子孫，按著宗族拈鬮分地，就是亞比以謝子孫，希勒子孫，亞斯列子孫，示劍子孫，希弗子孫，示米大子孫。這些按著宗族，都是約瑟兒子瑪拿西子孫的男丁。
There was also a lot for the rest of the children of Manasseh by their families; for the children of Abiezer, and for the children of Helek, and for the children of Asriel, and for the children of Shechem, and for the children of Hepher, and for the children of Shemida: these were the male children of Manasseh the son of Joseph by their families.

17:3    瑪拿西的玄孫，瑪吉的曾孫，基列的孫子，希弗的兒子西羅非哈沒有兒子，只有女兒。他的女兒名叫瑪拉，挪阿，曷拉，密迦，得撒。
But Zelophehad, the son of Hepher, the son of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh, had no sons, but daughters: and these are the names of his daughters, Mahlah, and Noah, Hoglah, Milcah, and Tirzah.

17:4    她們來到祭司以利亞撒和嫩的兒子約書亞並眾首領面前，說，耶和華曾吩咐摩西在我們弟兄中分給我們產業。於是約書亞照耶和華所吩咐的，在她們伯叔中，把產業分給她們。
And they came near before Eleazar the priest, and before Joshua the son of Nun, and before the princes, saying, The LORD commanded Moses to give us an inheritance among our brethren. Therefore according to the commandment of the LORD he gave them an inheritance among the brethren of their father.

17:5    除了約旦河東的基列和巴珊地之外，還有十分地歸瑪拿西，
And there fell ten portions to Manasseh, beside the land of Gilead and Bashan, which were on the other side Jordan;

17:6    因為瑪拿西的孫女們在瑪拿西的孫子中得了產業。基列地是屬瑪拿西其餘的子孫。
Because the daughters of Manasseh had an inheritance among his sons: and the rest of Manasseh's sons had the land of Gilead.

17:7    瑪拿西的境界，從亞設起，到示劍前的密米他，往北到隱他普亞居民之地。
And the coast of Manasseh was from Asher to Michmethah, that lieth before Shechem; and the border went along on the right hand unto the inhabitants of Entappuah.

17:8    他普亞地歸瑪拿西，只是瑪拿西境界上的他普亞城歸以法蓮子孫。
Now Manasseh had the land of Tappuah: but Tappuah on the border of Manasseh belonged to the children of Ephraim;

17:9    其界下到加拿河的南邊。在瑪拿西城邑中的這些城邑都歸以法蓮。瑪拿西的地界是在河北直通到海為止。
And the coast descended unto the river Kanah, southward of the river: these cities of Ephraim are among the cities of Manasseh: the coast of Manasseh also was on the north side of the river, and the outgoings of it were at the sea:

17:10    南歸以法蓮，北歸瑪拿西，以海為界。北邊到亞設，東邊到以薩迦。
Southward it was Ephraim's, and northward it was Manasseh's, and the sea is his border; and they met together in Asher on the north, and in Issachar on the east.

17:11    瑪拿西在以薩迦和亞設境內，有伯善和屬伯善的鎮市，以伯蓮和屬以伯蓮的鎮市，多珥的居民和屬多珥的鎮市。又有三處山岡，就是隱多珥和屬隱多珥的鎮市。他納的居民和屬他納的鎮市，米吉多的居民和屬米吉多的鎮市。
And Manasseh had in Issachar and in Asher Bethshean and her towns, and Ibleam and her towns, and the inhabitants of Dor and her towns, and the inhabitants of Endor and her towns, and the inhabitants of Taanach and her towns, and the inhabitants of Megiddo and her towns, even three countries.

17:12    只是瑪拿西子孫不能趕出這些城的居民，迦南人偏要住在那地。
Yet the children of Manasseh could not drive out the inhabitants of those cities; but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.

17:13    及至以色列人強盛了，就使迦南人作苦工，沒有把他們全然趕出。
Yet it came to pass, when the children of Israel were waxen strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, but did not utterly drive them out.

17:14    約瑟的子孫對約書亞說，耶和華到如今既然賜福與我們，我們也族大人多，你為什麼僅將一鬮一段之地分給我們為業呢。
And the children of Joseph spake unto Joshua, saying, Why hast thou given me but one lot and one portion to inherit, seeing I am a great people, forasmuch as the LORD hath blessed me hitherto?

17:15    約書亞說，你們如果族大人多，嫌以法蓮山地窄小，就可以上比利洗人，利乏音人之地，在樹林中砍伐樹木。
And Joshua answered them, If thou be a great people, then get thee up to the wood country, and cut down for thyself there in the land of the Perizzites and of the giants, if mount Ephraim be too narrow for thee.

17:16    約瑟的子孫說，那山地容不下我們，並且住平原的迦南人，就是住伯善和屬伯善的鎮市，並住耶斯列平原的人，都有鐵車。
And the children of Joseph said, The hill is not enough for us: and all the Canaanites that dwell in the land of the valley have chariots of iron, both they who are of Bethshean and her towns, and they who are of the valley of Jezreel.

17:17    約書亞對約瑟家，就是以法蓮和瑪拿西人，說，你是族大人多，並且強盛，不可僅有一鬮之地，
And Joshua spake unto the house of Joseph, even to Ephraim and to Manasseh, saying, Thou art a great people, and hast great power: thou shalt not have one lot only:

17:18    山地也要歸你，雖是樹林，你也可以砍伐。靠近之地必歸你。迦南人雖有鐵車，雖是強盛，你也能把他們趕出去。
But the mountain shall be thine; for it is a wood, and thou shalt cut it down: and the outgoings of it shall be thine: for thou shalt drive out the Canaanites, though they have iron chariots, and though they be strong.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


18:1    以色列的全會眾都聚集在示羅，把會幕設立在那裡，那地已經被他們制伏了。
And the whole congregation of the children of Israel assembled together at Shiloh, and set up the tabernacle of the congregation there. And the land was subdued before them.

18:2    以色列人中其餘的七個支派還沒有分給他們地業。
And there remained among the children of Israel seven tribes, which had not yet received their inheritance.

18:3    約書亞對以色列人說，耶和華你們列祖的神所賜給你們的地，你們耽延不去得，要到幾時呢。
And Joshua said unto the children of Israel, How long are ye slack to go to possess the land, which the LORD God of your fathers hath given you?

18:4    你們每支派當選舉三個人，我要打發他們去，他們就要起身走遍那地，按著各支派應得的地業寫明（或作畫圖），就回到我這裡來。
Give out from among you three men for each tribe: and I will send them, and they shall rise, and go through the land, and describe it according to the inheritance of them; and they shall come again to me.

18:5    他們要將地分作七分。猶大仍在南方，住在他的境內。約瑟家仍在北方，住在他的境內。
And they shall divide it into seven parts: Judah shall abide in their coast on the south, and the house of Joseph shall abide in their coasts on the north.

18:6    你們要將地分作七分，寫明瞭拿到我這裡來。我要在耶和華我們神面前，為你們拈鬮。
Ye shall therefore describe the land into seven parts, and bring the description hither to me, that I may cast lots for you here before the LORD our God.

18:7    利未人在你們中間沒有分，因為供耶和華祭司的職任就是他們的產業。迦得支派，流便支派，和瑪拿西半支派已經在約旦河東得了地業，就是耶和華僕人摩西所給他們的。
But the Levites have no part among you; for the priesthood of the LORD is their inheritance: and Gad, and Reuben, and half the tribe of Manasseh, have received their inheritance beyond Jordan on the east, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave them.

18:8    劃地勢的人起身去的時候，約書亞囑咐他們說，你們去走遍那地，劃明地勢，就回到我這裡來。我要在示羅這裡，耶和華面前，為你們拈鬮。
And the men arose, and went away: and Joshua charged them that went to describe the land, saying, Go and walk through the land, and describe it, and come again to me, that I may here cast lots for you before the LORD in Shiloh.

18:9    他們就去了，走遍那地，按著城邑分作七分，寫在冊子上，回到示羅營中見約書亞。
And the men went and passed through the land, and described it by cities into seven parts in a book, and came again to Joshua to the host at Shiloh.

18:10    約書亞就在示羅，耶和華面前，為他們拈鬮。約書亞在那裡，按著以色列人的支派，將地分給他們。
And Joshua cast lots for them in Shiloh before the LORD: and there Joshua divided the land unto the children of Israel according to their divisions.

18:11    便雅憫支派，按著宗族拈鬮所得之地，是在猶大，約瑟子孫中間。
And the lot of the tribe of the children of Benjamin came up according to their families: and the coast of their lot came forth between the children of Judah and the children of Joseph.

18:12    他們的北界是從約旦河起，往上貼近耶利哥的北邊。又往西通過山地，直到伯亞文的曠野。
And their border on the north side was from Jordan; and the border went up to the side of Jericho on the north side, and went up through the mountains westward; and the goings out thereof were at the wilderness of Bethaven.

18:13    從那裡往南接連到路斯，貼近路斯（路斯就是伯特利），又下到亞他綠亞達，靠近下伯和侖南邊的山。
And the border went over from thence toward Luz, to the side of Luz, which is Bethel, southward; and the border descended to Atarothadar, near the hill that lieth on the south side of the nether Bethhoron.

18:14    從那裡往西，又轉向南，從伯和侖南對面的山，直達到猶大人的城基列巴力（基列巴力就是基列耶琳）。這是西界。
And the border was drawn thence, and compassed the corner of the sea southward, from the hill that lieth before Bethhoron southward; and the goings out thereof were at Kirjathbaal, which is Kirjathjearim, a city of the children of Judah: this was the west quarter.

18:15    南界是從基列耶琳的盡邊起，往西達到尼弗多亞的水源。
And the south quarter was from the end of Kirjathjearim, and the border went out on the west, and went out to the well of waters of Nephtoah:

18:16    又下到欣嫩子谷對面山的盡邊，就是利乏音谷北邊的山。又下到欣嫩谷，貼近耶布斯的南邊。又下到隱羅結。
And the border came down to the end of the mountain that lieth before the valley of the son of Hinnom, and which is in the valley of the giants on the north, and descended to the valley of Hinnom, to the side of Jebusi on the south, and descended to Enrogel,

18:17    又往北通到隱示麥，達到亞都冥坡對面的基利綠。又下到流便之子波罕的磐石。
And was drawn from the north, and went forth to Enshemesh, and went forth toward Geliloth, which is over against the going up of Adummim, and descended to the stone of Bohan the son of Reuben,

18:18    又接連到亞拉巴對面，往北下到亞拉巴。
And passed along toward the side over against Arabah northward, and went down unto Arabah:

18:19    又接連到伯曷拉的北邊，直通到鹽海的北汊，就是約旦河的南頭。這是南界。
And the border passed along to the side of Bethhoglah northward: and the outgoings of the border were at the north bay of the salt sea at the south end of Jordan: this was the south coast.

18:20    東界是約旦河。這是便雅憫人按著宗族，照他們四圍的交界所得的地業。
And Jordan was the border of it on the east side. This was the inheritance of the children of Benjamin, by the coasts thereof round about, according to their families.

18:21    便雅憫支派按著宗族所得的城邑就是，耶利哥，伯曷拉，伊麥基悉，
Now the cities of the tribe of the children of Benjamin according to their families were Jericho, and Bethhoglah, and the valley of Keziz,

18:22    伯亞拉巴，洗瑪臉，伯特利，
And Betharabah, and Zemaraim, and Bethel,

18:23    亞文，巴拉，俄弗拉，
And Avim, and Parah, and Ophrah,

18:24    基法阿摩尼，俄弗尼，迦巴，共十二座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Chepharhaammonai, and Ophni, and Gaba; twelve cities with their villages:

18:25    又有基遍，拉瑪，比錄，
Gibeon, and Ramah, and Beeroth,

18:26    米斯巴，基非拉，摩撒，
And Mizpeh, and Chephirah, and Mozah,

18:27    利堅，伊利毗勒，他拉拉，
And Rekem, and Irpeel, and Taralah,

18:28    洗拉，以利弗，耶布斯（耶布斯就是耶路撒冷），基比亞，基列，共十四座城，還有屬城的村莊。這是便雅憫人按著宗族所得的地業。
And Zelah, Eleph, and Jebusi, which is Jerusalem, Gibeath, and Kirjath; fourteen cities with their villages. This is the inheritance of the children of Benjamin according to their families.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


19:1    為西緬支派的人，按著宗族，拈出第二鬮。他們所得的地業是在猶大人地業中間。
And the second lot came forth to Simeon, even for the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families: and their inheritance was within the inheritance of the children of Judah.

19:2    他們所得為業之地就是，別是巴（或名示巴），摩拉大，
And they had in their inheritance Beersheba, and Sheba, and Moladah,

19:3    哈薩書亞，巴拉，以森，
And Hazarshual, and Balah, and Azem,

19:4    伊利多拉，比土力，何珥瑪，
And Eltolad, and Bethul, and Hormah,

19:5    洗革拉，伯瑪加博，哈薩蘇撒，
And Ziklag, and Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusah,

19:6    伯利巴勿，沙魯險，共十三座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Bethlebaoth, and Sharuhen; thirteen cities and their villages:

19:7    又有亞因，利門，以帖，亞珊，共四座城，還有屬城的村莊。
Ain, Remmon, and Ether, and Ashan; four cities and their villages:

19:8    並有這些城邑四圍一切的村莊，直到巴拉比珥，就是南地的拉瑪。這是西緬支派按著宗族所得的地業。
And all the villages that were round about these cities to Baalathbeer, Ramath of the south. This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Simeon according to their families.

19:9    西緬人的地業是從猶大人地業中得來的。因為猶大人的分過多，所以西緬人在他們的地業中得了地業。
Out of the portion of the children of Judah was the inheritance of the children of Simeon: for the part of the children of Judah was too much for them: therefore the children of Simeon had their inheritance within the inheritance of them.

19:10    為西布倫人，按著宗族，拈出第三鬮。他們地業的境界是到撒立。
And the third lot came up for the children of Zebulun according to their families: and the border of their inheritance was unto Sarid:

19:11    往西上到瑪拉拉，達到大巴設，又達到約念前的河。
And their border went up toward the sea, and Maralah, and reached to Dabbasheth, and reached to the river that is before Jokneam;

19:12    又從撒立往東轉向日出之地，到吉斯綠他泊的境界，又通到大比拉，上到雅非亞。
And turned from Sarid eastward toward the sunrising unto the border of Chislothtabor, and then goeth out to Daberath, and goeth up to Japhia,

19:13    從那裡往東，接連到迦特希弗，至以特加汛，通到臨門，臨門延到尼亞。
And from thence passeth on along on the east to Gittahhepher, to Ittahkazin, and goeth out to Remmonmethoar to Neah;

19:14    又繞過尼亞的北邊，轉到哈拿頓，通到伊弗他伊勒谷。
And the border compasseth it on the north side to Hannathon: and the outgoings thereof are in the valley of Jiphthahel:

19:15    還有加他，拿哈拉，伸侖，以大拉，伯利恆，共十二座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Kattath, and Nahallal, and Shimron, and Idalah, and Bethlehem: twelve cities with their villages.

19:16    這些城並屬城的村莊就是西布倫人按著宗族所得的地業。
This is the inheritance of the children of Zebulun according to their families, these cities with their villages.



19:17    為以薩迦人，按著宗族，拈出第四鬮。
And the fourth lot came out to Issachar, for the children of Issachar according to their families.

19:18    他們的境界是到耶斯列，基蘇律，書念，
And their border was toward Jezreel, and Chesulloth, and Shunem,

19:19    哈弗連，示按，亞拿哈拉，
And Haphraim, and Shihon, and Anaharath,

19:20    拉璧，基善，亞別，
And Rabbith, and Kishion, and Abez,

19:21    利篾，隱幹寧，隱哈大，伯帕薛。
And Remeth, and Engannim, and Enhaddah, and Bethpazzez;

19:22    又達到他泊，沙哈洗瑪，伯示麥，直通到約旦河為止，共十六座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And the coast reacheth to Tabor, and Shahazimah, and Bethshemesh; and the outgoings of their border were at Jordan: sixteen cities with their villages.

19:23    這些城並屬城的村莊就是以薩迦支派按著宗族所得的地業。
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Issachar according to their families, the cities and their villages.

19:24    為亞設支派，按著宗族，拈出第五鬮。
And the fifth lot came out for the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families.

19:25    他們的境界是黑甲，哈利，比田，押煞，
And their border was Helkath, and Hali, and Beten, and Achshaph,

19:26    亞拉米勒，亞末，米沙勒。往西達到迦密，又到希曷立納，
And Alammelech, and Amad, and Misheal; and reacheth to Carmel westward, and to Shihorlibnath;

19:27    轉向日出之地，到伯大袞，達到細步綸往北到伊攻他伊勒谷，到伯以墨和尼業，也通到迦步勒的左邊。
And turneth toward the sunrising to Bethdagon, and reacheth to Zebulun, and to the valley of Jiphthahel toward the north side of Bethemek, and Neiel, and goeth out to Cabul on the left hand,

19:28    又到義伯侖，利合，哈們，加拿，直到西頓大城。
And Hebron, and Rehob, and Hammon, and Kanah, even unto great Zidon;

19:29    轉到拉瑪和堅固城泰爾。又轉到何薩，靠近亞革悉一帶地方，直通到海。
And then the coast turneth to Ramah, and to the strong city Tyre; and the coast turneth to Hosah; and the outgoings thereof are at the sea from the coast to Achzib:

19:30    又有烏瑪，亞弗，利合，共二十二座城，還有屬城的村莊。
Ummah also, and Aphek, and Rehob: twenty and two cities with their villages.

19:31    這些城並屬城的村莊就是亞設支派按著宗族所得的地業。
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Asher according to their families, these cities with their villages.

19:32    為拿弗他利人，按著宗族，拈出第六鬮。
The sixth lot came out to the children of Naphtali, even for the children of Naphtali according to their families.

19:33    他們的境界是從希利弗從撒拿音的橡樹，從亞大米尼吉和雅比聶，直到拉共，通到約旦河。
And their coast was from Heleph, from Allon to Zaanannim, and Adami, Nekeb, and Jabneel, unto Lakum; and the outgoings thereof were at Jordan:

19:34    又轉向西到亞斯納他泊，從那裡通到戶割，南邊到西布倫，西邊到亞設，又向日出之地，達到約旦河那裡的猶大。
And then the coast turneth westward to Aznothtabor, and goeth out from thence to Hukkok, and reacheth to Zebulun on the south side, and reacheth to Asher on the west side, and to Judah upon Jordan toward the sunrising.

19:35    堅固的城就是，西丁，側耳，哈末，拉甲，基尼烈，
And the fenced cities are Ziddim, Zer, and Hammath, Rakkath, and Chinnereth,

19:36    亞大瑪，拉瑪，夏瑣，
And Adamah, and Ramah, and Hazor,

19:37    基低斯，以得來，隱夏瑣，
And Kedesh, and Edrei, and Enhazor,

19:38    以利穩，密大伊勒，和璉，伯亞納，伯示麥，共十九座城，還有屬城的村莊。
And Iron, and Migdalel, Horem, and Bethanath, and Bethshemesh; nineteen cities with their villages.

19:39    這些城並屬城的村莊就是拿弗他利支派按著宗族所得的地業。
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Naphtali according to their families, the cities and their villages.

19:40    為但支派，按著宗族，拈出第七鬮。
And the seventh lot came out for the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families.

19:41    他們地業的境界是瑣拉，以實陶，伊珥示麥，
And the coast of their inheritance was Zorah, and Eshtaol, and Irshemesh,

19:42    沙拉賓，亞雅侖，伊提拉，
And Shaalabbin, and Ajalon, and Jethlah,

19:43    以倫，亭拿他，以革倫，
And Elon, and Thimnathah, and Ekron,

19:44    伊利提基，基比頓，巴拉，
And Eltekeh, and Gibbethon, and Baalath,

19:45    伊胡得，比尼比拉，迦特臨門，
And Jehud, and Beneberak, and Gathrimmon,

19:46    美耶昆，拉昆，並約帕對面的地界。
And Mejarkon, and Rakkon, with the border before Japho.

19:47    但人的地界越過原得的地界。因為但人上去攻取利善，用刀擊殺城中的人，得了那城，住在其中，以他們先祖但的名將利善改名為但。
And the coast of the children of Dan went out too little for them: therefore the children of Dan went up to fight against Leshem, and took it, and smote it with the edge of the sword, and possessed it, and dwelt therein, and called Leshem, Dan, after the name of Dan their father.

19:48    這些城並屬城的村莊就是但支派按著宗族所得的地業。
This is the inheritance of the tribe of the children of Dan according to their families, these cities with their villages.

19:49    以色列人按著境界分完了地業，就在他們中間將地給嫩的兒子約書亞為業，
When they had made an end of dividing the land for inheritance by their coasts, the children of Israel gave an inheritance to Joshua the son of Nun among them:

19:50    是照耶和華的吩咐，將約書亞所求的城，就是以法蓮山地的亭拿西拉城，給了他。他就修那城，住在其中。
According to the word of the LORD they gave him the city which he asked, even Timnathserah in mount Ephraim: and he built the city, and dwelt therein.

19:51    這就是祭司以利亞撒和嫩的兒子約書亞，並以色列各支派的族長，在示羅會幕門口，耶和華面前，拈鬮所分的地業。這樣，他們把地分完了。
These are the inheritances, which Eleazar the priest, and Joshua the son of Nun, and the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel, divided for an inheritance by lot in Shiloh before the LORD, at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation. So they made an end of dividing the country.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


20:1    耶和華曉諭約書亞說，
The LORD also spake unto Joshua, saying,

20:2    你吩咐以色列人說，你們要照著我藉摩西所曉諭你們的，為自己設立逃城，
Speak to the children of Israel, saying, Appoint out for you cities of refuge, whereof I spake unto you by the hand of Moses:

20:3    使那無心而誤殺人的，可以逃到那裡。這些城可以作你們逃避報血仇人的地方。
That the slayer that killeth any person unawares and unwittingly may flee thither: and they shall be your refuge from the avenger of blood.

20:4    那殺人的要逃到這些城中的一座城，站在城門口，將他的事情說給城內的長老們聽。他們就把他收進城裡，給他地方，使他住在他們中間。
And when he that doth flee unto one of those cities shall stand at the entering of the gate of the city, and shall declare his cause in the ears of the elders of that city, they shall take him into the city unto them, and give him a place, that he may dwell among them.

20:5    若是報血仇的追了他來，長老不可將他交在報血仇的手裡。因為他是素無仇恨，無心殺了人的。
And if the avenger of blood pursue after him, then they shall not deliver the slayer up into his hand; because he smote his neighbour unwittingly, and hated him not beforetime.

20:6    他要住在那城裡，站在會眾面前聽審判，等到那時的大祭司死了，殺人的才可以回到本城本家，就是他所逃出來的那城。
And he shall dwell in that city, until he stand before the congregation for judgment, and until the death of the high priest that shall be in those days: then shall the slayer return, and come unto his own city, and unto his own house, unto the city from whence he fled.

20:7    於是，以色列人在拿弗他利山地分定加利利的基低斯。在以法蓮山地分定示劍。在猶大山地分定基列亞巴（基列亞巴就是希伯侖）。
And they appointed Kedesh in Galilee in mount Naphtali, and Shechem in mount Ephraim, and Kirjatharba, which is Hebron, in the mountain of Judah.

20:8    又在約旦河外耶利哥東，從流便支派中，在曠野的平原，設立比悉。從迦得支派中設立基列的拉末。從瑪拿西支派中設立巴珊的哥蘭。
And on the other side Jordan by Jericho eastward, they assigned Bezer in the wilderness upon the plain out of the tribe of Reuben, and Ramoth in Gilead out of the tribe of Gad, and Golan in Bashan out of the tribe of Manasseh.

20:9    這都是為以色列眾人和在他們中間寄居的外人所分定的地邑，使誤殺人的都可以逃到那裡，不死在報血仇人的手中，等他站在會眾面前聽審判。
These were the cities appointed for all the children of Israel, and for the stranger that sojourneth among them, that whosoever killeth any person at unawares might flee thither, and not die by the hand of the avenger of blood, until he stood before the congregation.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


21:1    那時，利未人的眾族長來到祭司以利亞撒和嫩的兒子約書亞，並以色列各支派的族長面前，
Then came near the heads of the fathers of the Levites unto Eleazar the priest, and unto Joshua the son of Nun, and unto the heads of the fathers of the tribes of the children of Israel;

21:2    在迦南地的示羅對他們說，從前耶和華藉著摩西吩咐給我們城邑居住，並城邑的郊野可以牧養我們的牲畜。
And they spake unto them at Shiloh in the land of Canaan, saying, The LORD commanded by the hand of Moses to give us cities to dwell in, with the suburbs thereof for our cattle.

21:3    於是以色列人照耶和華所吩咐的，從自己的地業中，將以下所記的城邑和城邑的郊野給了利未人。
And the children of Israel gave unto the Levites out of their inheritance, at the commandment of the LORD, these cities and their suburbs.

21:4    為哥轄族拈鬮，利未人的祭司，亞倫的子孫，從猶大支派，西緬支派，便雅憫支派的地業中，按鬮得了十三座城。
And the lot came out for the families of the Kohathites: and the children of Aaron the priest, which were of the Levites, had by lot out of the tribe of Judah, and out of the tribe of Simeon, and out of the tribe of Benjamin, thirteen cities.

21:5    哥轄其餘的子孫，從以法蓮支派，但支派，瑪拿西半支派的地業中，按鬮得了十座城。
And the rest of the children of Kohath had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Ephraim, and out of the tribe of Dan, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh, ten cities.

21:6    革順的子孫，從以薩迦支派，亞設支派，拿弗他利支派，住巴珊的瑪拿西半支派的地業中，按鬮得了十三座城。
And the children of Gershon had by lot out of the families of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the half tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.

21:7    米拉利的子孫，按著宗族，從流便支派，迦得支派，西布倫支派的地業中，按鬮得了十二座城。
The children of Merari by their families had out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.

21:8    以色列人照著耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的，將這些城邑和城邑的郊野，按鬮分給利未人。
And the children of Israel gave by lot unto the Levites these cities with their suburbs, as the LORD commanded by the hand of Moses.

21:9    *
And they gave out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, these cities which are here mentioned by name,

21:10    從猶大支派，西緬支派的地業中，將以下所記的城給了利未支派哥轄宗族亞倫的子孫。因為給他們拈出頭一鬮，
Which the children of Aaron, being of the families of the Kohathites, who were of the children of Levi, had: for theirs was the first lot.

21:11    將猶大山地的基列亞巴和四圍的郊野給了他們。亞巴是亞衲族的始祖。（基列亞巴就是希伯侖）。
And they gave them the city of Arba the father of Anak, which city is Hebron, in the hill country of Judah, with the suburbs thereof round about it.

21:12    惟將屬城的田地和村莊給了耶孚尼的兒子迦勒為業。
But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, gave they to Caleb the son of Jephunneh for his possession.

21:13    以色列人將希伯侖，就是誤殺人的逃城和屬城的郊野，給了祭司亞倫的子孫。又給他們立拿和屬城的郊野，
Thus they gave to the children of Aaron the priest Hebron with her suburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Libnah with her suburbs,

21:14    雅提珥和屬城的郊野，以實提莫和屬城的郊野，
And Jattir with her suburbs, and Eshtemoa with her suburbs,

21:15    何侖和屬城的郊野，底璧和屬城的郊野，
And Holon with her suburbs, and Debir with her suburbs,

21:16    亞因和屬城的郊野，淤他和屬城的郊野，伯示麥和屬城的郊野，共九座城，都是從這二支派中分出來的。
And Ain with her suburbs, and Juttah with her suburbs, and Bethshemesh with her suburbs; nine cities out of those two tribes.

21:17    又從便雅憫支派的地業中給了他們基遍和屬城的郊野，迦巴和屬城的郊野，
And out of the tribe of Benjamin, Gibeon with her suburbs, Geba with her suburbs,

21:18    亞拿突和屬城的郊野，亞勒們和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Anathoth with her suburbs, and Almon with her suburbs; four cities.

21:19    亞倫子孫作祭司的共有十三座城，還有屬城的郊野。
All the cities of the children of Aaron, the priests, were thirteen cities with their suburbs.

21:20    第二十一章利未支派中哥轄的宗族，就是哥轄其餘的子孫，拈鬮所得的城有從以法蓮支派中分出來的。
And the families of the children of Kohath, the Levites which remained of the children of Kohath, even they had the cities of their lot out of the tribe of Ephraim.

21:21    以色列人將以法蓮山地的示劍，就是誤殺人的逃城和屬城的郊野，給了他們。又給他們基色和屬城的郊野，
For they gave them Shechem with her suburbs in mount Ephraim, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Gezer with her suburbs,

21:22    基伯先和屬城的郊野，伯和侖和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
And Kibzaim with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs; four cities.

21:23    又從但支派的地業中給了他們伊利提基和屬城的郊野，基比頓和屬城的郊野，
And out of the tribe of Dan, Eltekeh with her suburbs, Gibbethon with her suburbs,

21:24    亞雅侖和屬城的郊野，迦特臨門和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Aijalon with her suburbs, Gathrimmon with her suburbs; four cities.

21:25    又從瑪拿西半支派的地業中給了他們他納和屬城的郊野，迦特臨門和屬城的郊野，共兩座城。
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh, Tanach with her suburbs, and Gathrimmon with her suburbs; two cities.

21:26    哥轄其餘的子孫共有十座城，還有屬城的郊野。
All the cities were ten with their suburbs for the families of the children of Kohath that remained.

21:27    以色列人又從瑪拿西半支派的地業中將巴珊的哥蘭，就是誤殺人的逃城和屬城的郊野，給了利未支派革順的子孫。又給他們比施提拉和屬城的郊野，共兩座城。
And unto the children of Gershon, of the families of the Levites, out of the other half tribe of Manasseh they gave Golan in Bashan with her suburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Beeshterah with her suburbs; two cities.

21:28    又從以薩迦支派的地業中給了他們基善和屬城的郊野，大比拉和屬城的郊野，
And out of the tribe of Issachar, Kishon with her suburbs, Dabareh with her suburbs,

21:29    耶末和屬城的郊野，隱幹寧和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Jarmuth with her suburbs, Engannim with her suburbs; four cities.

21:30    又從亞設支派的地業中給了他們米沙勒和屬城的郊野，押頓和屬城的郊野，
And out of the tribe of Asher, Mishal with her suburbs, Abdon with her suburbs,

21:31    黑甲和屬城的郊野，利合和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Helkath with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbs; four cities.

21:32    又從拿弗他利支派的地業中將加利利的基低斯，就是誤殺人的逃城和屬城的郊野，給了他們。又給他們哈末多珥和屬城的郊野，加珥坦和屬城的郊野，共三座城。
And out of the tribe of Naphtali, Kedesh in Galilee with her suburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Hammothdor with her suburbs, and Kartan with her suburbs; three cities.

21:33    革順人按著宗族所得的城，共十三座，還有屬城的郊野。
All the cities of the Gershonites according to their families were thirteen cities with their suburbs.



21:34    其餘利未支派米拉利子孫，從西布倫支派的地業中所得的，就是約念和屬城的郊野，加珥他和屬城的郊野，
And unto the families of the children of Merari, the rest of the Levites, out of the tribe of Zebulun, Jokneam with her suburbs, and Kartah with her suburbs,

21:35    丁拿和屬城的郊野，拿哈拉和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Dimnah with her suburbs, Nahalal with her suburbs; four cities.

21:36    又從流便支派的地業中給了他們比悉和屬城的郊野，雅雜和屬城的郊野，
And out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer with her suburbs, and Jahazah with her suburbs,

21:37    基底莫和屬城的郊野，米法押和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Kedemoth with her suburbs, and Mephaath with her suburbs; four cities.

21:38    又從迦得支派的地業中，將基列的拉末，就是誤殺人的逃城和屬城的郊野，給了他們。又給他們瑪哈念和屬城的郊野，
And out of the tribe of Gad, Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs, to be a city of refuge for the slayer; and Mahanaim with her suburbs,



21:39    希實本和屬城的郊野，雅謝和屬城的郊野，共四座城。
Heshbon with her suburbs, Jazer with her suburbs; four cities in all.

21:40    其餘利未支派的人，就是米拉利的子孫，按著宗族拈鬮所得的，共十二座城。
So all the cities for the children of Merari by their families, which were remaining of the families of the Levites, were by their lot twelve cities.

21:41    利未人在以色列人的地業中所得的城，共四十八座，並有屬城的郊野。
All the cities of the Levites within the possession of the children of Israel were forty and eight cities with their suburbs.

21:42    這些城四圍都有屬城的郊野，城城都是如此。
These cities were every one with their suburbs round about them: thus were all these cities.

21:43    這樣，耶和華將從前向他們列祖起誓所應許的全地賜給以色列人，他們就得了為業，住在其中。
And the LORD gave unto Israel all the land which he sware to give unto their fathers; and they possessed it, and dwelt therein.

21:44    耶和華照著向他們列祖起誓所應許的一切話，使他們四境平安。他們一切仇敵中，沒有一人在他們面前刪立得住。耶和華把一切仇敵都交在他們手中。
And the LORD gave them rest round about, according to all that he sware unto their fathers: and there stood not a man of all their enemies before them; the LORD delivered all their enemies into their hand.

21:45    耶和華應許賜福給以色列家的話一句也沒有落空，都應驗了。
There failed not ought of any good thing which the LORD had spoken unto the house of Israel; all came to pass.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


22:1    當時，約書亞召了流便人，迦得人，和瑪拿西半支派的人來，
Then Joshua called the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh,

22:2    對他們說，耶和華僕人摩西所吩咐你們的，你們都遵守了。我所吩咐你們的，你們也都聽從了。
And said unto them, Ye have kept all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded you, and have obeyed my voice in all that I commanded you:

22:3    你們這許多日子，總沒有撇離你們的弟兄，直到今日，並守了耶和華你們神所吩咐你們當守的。
Ye have not left your brethren these many days unto this day, but have kept the charge of the commandment of the LORD your God.

22:4    如今耶和華你們神照著他所應許的，使你們弟兄得享平安，現在可以轉回你們的帳棚，到耶和華的僕人摩西在約旦河東所賜你們為業之地。
And now the LORD your God hath given rest unto your brethren, as he promised them: therefore now return ye, and get you unto your tents, and unto the land of your possession, which Moses the servant of the LORD gave you on the other side Jordan.

22:5    只要切切地謹慎遵行耶和華僕人摩西所吩咐你們的誡命律法，愛耶和華你們的神，行他一切的道，守他的誡命，專靠他，盡心儘性事奉他。
But take diligent heed to do the commandment and the law, which Moses the servant of the LORD charged you, to love the LORD your God, and to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and to cleave unto him, and to serve him with all your heart and with all your soul.

22:6    於是約書亞為他們祝福，打發他們去，他們就回自己的帳棚去了。
So Joshua blessed them, and sent them away: and they went unto their tents.

22:7    瑪拿西那半支派，摩西早已在巴珊分給他們地業。這半支派，約書亞在約旦河西，在他們弟兄中，分給他們地業。約書亞打發他們回帳棚的時候為他們祝福，
Now to the one half of the tribe of Manasseh Moses had given possession in Bashan: but unto the other half thereof gave Joshua among their brethren on this side Jordan westward. And when Joshua sent them away also unto their tents, then he blessed them,

22:8    對他們說，你們帶許多財物，許多牲畜和金，銀，銅，鐵，並許多衣服，回你們的帳棚去，要將你們從仇敵奪來的物，與你們眾弟兄同分。
And he spake unto them, saying, Return with much riches unto your tents, and with very much cattle, with silver, and with gold, and with brass, and with iron, and with very much raiment: divide the spoil of your enemies with your brethren.

22:9    於是流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西半支派的人從迦南地的示羅起行，離開以色列人，回往他們得為業的基列地，就是照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的得了為業之地。
And the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh returned, and departed from the children of Israel out of Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan, to go unto the country of Gilead, to the land of their possession, whereof they were possessed, according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

22:10    流便人，迦得人，和瑪拿西半支派的人到了靠近約旦河的一帶迦南地，就在約旦河那裡築了一座壇。那壇看著高大。
And when they came unto the borders of Jordan, that are in the land of Canaan, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh built there an altar by Jordan, a great altar to see to.

22:11    以色列人聽說流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西半支派的人靠近約旦河邊，在迦南地屬以色列人的那邊築了一座壇。
And the children of Israel heard say, Behold, the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh have built an altar over against the land of Canaan, in the borders of Jordan, at the passage of the children of Israel.

22:12    全會眾一聽見，就聚集在示羅，要上去攻打他們。
And when the children of Israel heard of it, the whole congregation of the children of Israel gathered themselves together at Shiloh, to go up to war against them.

22:13    以色列人打發祭司以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈，往基列地去見流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西半支派的人。
And the children of Israel sent unto the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, into the land of Gilead, Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest,

22:14    又打發十個首領與非尼哈同去，就是以色列每支派的一個首領，都是以色列軍中的統領。
And with him ten princes, of each chief house a prince throughout all the tribes of Israel; and each one was an head of the house of their fathers among the thousands of Israel.

22:15    他們到了基列地，見流便人，迦得人，和瑪拿西半支派的人，對他們說，
And they came unto the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the half tribe of Manasseh, unto the land of Gilead, and they spake with them, saying,

22:16    耶和華全會眾這樣說，你們今日轉去不跟從耶和華，干犯以色列的神，為自己築一座壇，悖逆了耶和華，這犯的是什麼罪呢。
Thus saith the whole congregation of the LORD, What trespass is this that ye have committed against the God of Israel, to turn away this day from following the LORD, in that ye have builded you an altar, that ye might rebel this day against the LORD?

22:17    從前拜毗珥的罪孽還算小嗎。雖然瘟疫臨到耶和華的會眾，到今日我們還沒有洗淨這罪。
Is the iniquity of Peor too little for us, from which we are not cleansed until this day, although there was a plague in the congregation of the LORD,

22:18    你們今日竟轉去不跟從耶和華嗎。你們今日既悖逆耶和華，明日他必向以色列全會眾發怒。
But that ye must turn away this day from following the LORD? and it will be, seeing ye rebel to day against the LORD, that to morrow he will be wroth with the whole congregation of Israel.

22:19    你們所得為業之地，若嫌不潔淨，就可以過到耶和華之地，就是耶和華的帳幕所住之地，在我們中間得地業。只是不可悖逆耶和華，也不可得罪我們，在耶和華我們神的壇以外為自己築壇。
Notwithstanding, if the land of your possession be unclean, then pass ye over unto the land of the possession of the LORD, wherein the LORD's tabernacle dwelleth, and take possession among us: but rebel not against the LORD, nor rebel against us, in building you an altar beside the altar of the LORD our God.

22:20    從前謝拉的曾孫亞幹豈不是在那當滅的物上犯了罪，就有忿怒臨到以色列全會眾嗎。那人在所犯的罪中不獨一人死亡。
Did not Achan the son of Zerah commit a trespass in the accursed thing, and wrath fell on all the congregation of Israel? and that man perished not alone in his iniquity.

22:21    於是流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西半支派的人回答以色列軍中的統領說，
Then the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the half tribe of Manasseh answered, and said unto the heads of the thousands of Israel,

22:22    大能者神耶和華。大能者神耶和華。他是知道的。以色列人也必知道。我們若有悖逆的意思，或是干犯耶和華（願你今日不保佑我們），
The LORD God of gods, the LORD God of gods, he knoweth, and Israel he shall know; if it be in rebellion, or if in transgression against the LORD, (save us not this day,)

22:23    為自己築壇，要轉去不跟從耶和華，或是要將燔祭，素祭，平安祭獻在壇上，願耶和華親自討我們的罪。
That we have built us an altar to turn from following the LORD, or if to offer thereon burnt offering or meat offering, or if to offer peace offerings thereon, let the LORD himself require it;

22:24    我們行這事並非無故，是特意作的，說，恐怕日後你們的子孫對我們的子孫說，你們與耶和華以色列的神有何關涉呢。
And if we have not rather done it for fear of this thing, saying, In time to come your children might speak unto our children, saying, What have ye to do with the LORD God of Israel?

22:25    因為耶和華把約旦河定為我們和你們這流便人，迦得人的交界，你們與耶和華無分了。這樣，你們的子孫就使我們的子孫不再敬畏耶和華了。
For the LORD hath made Jordan a border between us and you, ye children of Reuben and children of Gad; ye have no part in the LORD: so shall your children make our children cease from fearing the LORD.

22:26    因此我們說，不如為自己築一座壇，不是為獻燔祭，也不是為獻別的祭，
Therefore we said, Let us now prepare to build us an altar, not for burnt offering, nor for sacrifice:

22:27    乃是為你我中間和你我後人中間作證據，好叫我們也在耶和華面前獻燔祭，平安祭，和別的祭事奉他，免得你們的子孫日後對我們的子孫說，你們與耶和華無分了。
But that it may be a witness between us, and you, and our generations after us, that we might do the service of the LORD before him with our burnt offerings, and with our sacrifices, and with our peace offerings; that your children may not say to our children in time to come, Ye have no part in the LORD.

22:28    所以我們說，日後你們對我們，或對我們的後人這樣說，我們就可以回答說，你們看我們列祖所築的壇是耶和華壇的樣式。這並不是為獻燔祭，也不是為獻別的祭，乃是為作你我中間的證據。
Therefore said we, that it shall be, when they should so say to us or to our generations in time to come, that we may say again, Behold the pattern of the altar of the LORD, which our fathers made, not for burnt offerings, nor for sacrifices; but it is a witness between us and you.

22:29    我們在耶和華我們神帳幕前的壇以外，另築一座壇，為獻燔祭，素祭，和別的祭，悖逆耶和華，今日轉去不跟從他，我們斷沒有這個意思。
God forbid that we should rebel against the LORD, and turn this day from following the LORD, to build an altar for burnt offerings, for meat offerings, or for sacrifices, beside the altar of the LORD our God that is before his tabernacle.

22:30    祭司非尼哈與會中的首領，就是與他同來以色列軍中的統領，聽見流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西人所說的話，就都以為美。
And when Phinehas the priest, and the princes of the congregation and heads of the thousands of Israel which were with him, heard the words that the children of Reuben and the children of Gad and the children of Manasseh spake, it pleased them.

22:31    祭司以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈對流便人，迦得人，瑪拿西人說，今日我們知道耶和華在我們中間，因為你們沒有向他犯了這罪。現在你們救以色列人脫離耶和華的手了。
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest said unto the children of Reuben, and to the children of Gad, and to the children of Manasseh, This day we perceive that the LORD is among us, because ye have not committed this trespass against the LORD: now ye have delivered the children of Israel out of the hand of the LORD.

22:32    祭司以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈與眾首領離了流便人，迦得人，從基列地回往迦南地，到了以色列人那裡，便將這事回報他們。
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar the priest, and the princes, returned from the children of Reuben, and from the children of Gad, out of the land of Gilead, unto the land of Canaan, to the children of Israel, and brought them word again.

22:33    以色列人以這事為美，就稱頌神，不再提上去攻打流便人，迦得人，毀壞他們所住的地了。
And the thing pleased the children of Israel; and the children of Israel blessed God, and did not intend to go up against them in battle, to destroy the land wherein the children of Reuben and Gad dwelt.

22:34    流便人，迦得人給壇起名叫證壇，意思說，這壇在我們中間證明耶和華是神。
And the children of Reuben and the children of Gad called the altar Ed: for it shall be a witness between us that the LORD is God.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


23:1    耶和華使以色列人安靜，不與四圍的一切仇敵爭戰，已經多日。約書亞年紀老邁，
And it came to pass a long time after that the LORD had given rest unto Israel from all their enemies round about, that Joshua waxed old and stricken in age.

23:2    就把以色列眾人的長老，族長，審判官，並官長都召了來，對他們說，我年紀已經老邁。
And Joshua called for all Israel, and for their elders, and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers, and said unto them, I am old and stricken in age:

23:3    耶和華你們的神因你們的緣故向那些國所行的一切事，你們親眼看見了，因那為你們爭戰的是耶和華你們的神。
And ye have seen all that the LORD your God hath done unto all these nations because of you; for the LORD your God is he that hath fought for you.

23:4    我所剪除和所剩下的各國，從約旦河起到日落之處的大海，我已經拈鬮分給你們各支派為業。
Behold, I have divided unto you by lot these nations that remain, to be an inheritance for your tribes, from Jordan, with all the nations that I have cut off, even unto the great sea westward.

23:5    耶和華你們的神必將他們從你們面前趕出去，使他們離開你們，你們就必得他們的地為業，正如耶和華你們的神所應許的。
And the LORD your God, he shall expel them from before you, and drive them from out of your sight; and ye shall possess their land, as the LORD your God hath promised unto you.

23:6    所以，你們要大大壯膽，謹守遵行寫在摩西律法書上的一切話，不可偏離左右。
Be ye therefore very courageous to keep and to do all that is written in the book of the law of Moses, that ye turn not aside therefrom to the right hand or to the left;

23:7    不可與你們中間所剩下的這些國民攙雜。他們的神，你們不可提他的名，不可指著他起誓，也不可事奉，叩拜。
That ye come not among these nations, these that remain among you; neither make mention of the name of their gods, nor cause to swear by them, neither serve them, nor bow yourselves unto them:

23:8    只要照著你們到今日所行的，專靠耶和華你們的神。
But cleave unto the LORD your God, as ye have done unto this day.

23:9    因為耶和華已經把又大又強的國民從你們面前趕出。直到今日，沒有一人在你們面前刪立得住。
For the LORD hath driven out from before you great nations and strong: but as for you, no man hath been able to stand before you unto this day.

23:10    你們一人必追趕千人，因耶和華你們的神照他所應許的，為你們爭戰。
One man of you shall chase a thousand: for the LORD your God, he it is that fighteth for you, as he hath promised you.

23:11    你們要分外謹慎，愛耶和華你們的神。
Take good heed therefore unto yourselves, that ye love the LORD your God.

23:12    你們若稍微轉去，與你們中間所剩下的這些國民聯絡，彼此結親，互相往來，
Else if ye do in any wise go back, and cleave unto the remnant of these nations, even these that remain among you, and shall make marriages with them, and go in unto them, and they to you:

23:13    你們要確實知道，耶和華你們的神必不再將他們從你們眼前趕出。他們卻要成為你們的網羅，機檻，肋上的鞭，眼中的刺，直到你們在耶和華你們神所賜的這美地上滅亡。
Know for a certainty that the LORD your God will no more drive out any of these nations from before you; but they shall be snares and traps unto you, and scourges in your sides, and thorns in your eyes, until ye perish from off this good land which the LORD your God hath given you.

23:14    我現在要走世人必走的路。你們是一心一意地知道，耶和華你們神所應許賜福與你們的話沒有一句落空，都應驗在你們身上了。
And, behold, this day I am going the way of all the earth: and ye know in all your hearts and in all your souls, that not one thing hath failed of all the good things which the LORD your God spake concerning you; all are come to pass unto you, and not one thing hath failed thereof.

23:15    耶和華你們神所應許的一切福氣怎樣臨到你們身上，耶和華也必照樣使各樣禍患臨到你們身上，直到把你們從耶和華你們神所賜的這美地上除滅。
Therefore it shall come to pass, that as all good things are come upon you, which the LORD your God promised you; so shall the LORD bring upon you all evil things, until he have destroyed you from off this good land which the LORD your God hath given you.

23:16    你們若違背耶和華你們神吩咐你們所守的約，去事奉別神，叩拜他，耶和華的怒氣必向你們發作，使你們在他所賜的美地上速速滅亡。
When ye have transgressed the covenant of the LORD your God, which he commanded you, and have gone and served other gods, and bowed yourselves to them; then shall the anger of the LORD be kindled against you, and ye shall perish quickly from off the good land which he hath given unto you.




舊約 -- 約書亞記(Joshua) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


24:1    約書亞將以色列的眾支派聚集在示劍，召了以色列的長老，族長，審判官，並官長來，他們就站在神面前。
And Joshua gathered all the tribes of Israel to Shechem, and called for the elders of Israel, and for their heads, and for their judges, and for their officers; and they presented themselves before God.

24:2    約書亞對眾民說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，古時你們的列祖，就是亞伯拉罕和拿鶴的父親他拉，住在大河那邊事奉別神，
And Joshua said unto all the people, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Your fathers dwelt on the other side of the flood in old time, even Terah, the father of Abraham, and the father of Nachor: and they served other gods.

24:3    我將你們的祖宗亞伯拉罕從大河那邊帶來，領他走遍迦南全地，又使他的子孫眾多，把以撒賜給他。
And I took your father Abraham from the other side of the flood, and led him throughout all the land of Canaan, and multiplied his seed, and gave him Isaac.

24:4    又把雅各和以掃賜給以撒，將西珥山賜給以掃為業。後來雅各和他的子孫下到埃及去了。
And I gave unto Isaac Jacob and Esau: and I gave unto Esau mount Seir, to possess it; but Jacob and his children went down into Egypt.

24:5    我差遣摩西，亞倫，並照我在埃及中所行的降災與埃及，然後把你們領出來。
I sent Moses also and Aaron, and I plagued Egypt, according to that which I did among them: and afterward I brought you out.

24:6    我領你們列祖出埃及，他們就到了紅海。埃及人帶領車輛馬兵追趕你們列祖到紅海。
And I brought your fathers out of Egypt: and ye came unto the sea; and the Egyptians pursued after your fathers with chariots and horsemen unto the Red sea.

24:7    你們列祖哀求耶和華，他就使你們和埃及人中間黑暗了，又使海水淹沒埃及人。我在埃及所行的事，你們親眼見過。你們在曠野也住了許多年日。
And when they cried unto the LORD, he put darkness between you and the Egyptians, and brought the sea upon them, and covered them; and your eyes have seen what I have done in Egypt: and ye dwelt in the wilderness a long season.

24:8    我領你們到約旦河東亞摩利人所住之地。他們與你們爭戰，我將他們交在你們手中，你們便得了他們的地為業。我也在你們面前將他們滅絕。
And I brought you into the land of the Amorites, which dwelt on the other side Jordan; and they fought with you: and I gave them into your hand, that ye might possess their land; and I destroyed them from before you.

24:9    那時，摩押王西撥的兒子巴勒起來攻擊以色列人，打發人召了比珥的兒子巴蘭來咒詛你們。
Then Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab, arose and warred against Israel, and sent and called Balaam the son of Beor to curse you:

24:10    我不肯聽巴蘭的話，所以他倒為你們連連祝福。這樣，我便救你們脫離巴勒的手。
But I would not hearken unto Balaam; therefore he blessed you still: so I delivered you out of his hand.

24:11    你們過了約旦河，到了耶利哥。耶利哥人，亞摩利人，比利洗人，迦南人，赫人，革迦撒人，希未人，耶布斯人都與你們爭戰。我把他們交在你們手裡。
And ye went over Jordan, and came unto Jericho: and the men of Jericho fought against you, the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Canaanites, and the Hittites, and the Girgashites, the Hivites, and the Jebusites; and I delivered them into your hand.

24:12    我打發黃蜂飛在你們前面，將亞摩利人的二王從你們面前攆出，並不是用你的刀，也不是用你的弓。
And I sent the hornet before you, which drave them out from before you, even the two kings of the Amorites; but not with thy sword, nor with thy bow.

24:13    我賜給你們地土，非你們所修治的。我賜給你們城邑，非你們所建造的。你們就住在其中，又得吃非你們所栽種的葡萄園，橄欖園的果子。
And I have given you a land for which ye did not labour, and cities which ye built not, and ye dwell in them; of the vineyards and oliveyards which ye planted not do ye eat.

24:14    現在你們要敬畏耶和華，誠心實意地事奉他，將你們列祖在大河那邊和在埃及所事奉的神除掉，去事奉耶和華。
Now therefore fear the LORD, and serve him in sincerity and in truth: and put away the gods which your fathers served on the other side of the flood, and in Egypt; and serve ye the LORD.

24:15    若是你們以事奉耶和華為不好，今日就可以選擇所要事奉的，是你們列祖在大河那邊所事奉的神呢。是你們所住這地的亞摩利人的神呢。至於我和我家，我們必定事奉耶和華。
And if it seem evil unto you to serve the LORD, choose you this day whom ye will serve; whether the gods which your fathers served that were on the other side of the flood, or the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but as for me and my house, we will serve the LORD.



24:16    百姓回答說，我們斷不敢離棄耶和華去事奉別神。
And the people answered and said, God forbid that we should forsake the LORD, to serve other gods;

24:17    因耶和華我們的神曾將我們和我們列祖從埃及地的為奴之家領出來，在我們眼前行了那些大神蹟，在我們所行的道上，所經過的諸國，都保護了我們。
For the LORD our God, he it is that brought us up and our fathers out of the land of Egypt, from the house of bondage, and which did those great signs in our sight, and preserved us in all the way wherein we went, and among all the people through whom we passed:

24:18    耶和華又把住此地的亞摩利人都從我們面前趕出去。所以，我們必事奉耶和華，因為他是我們的神。
And the LORD drave out from before us all the people, even the Amorites which dwelt in the land: therefore will we also serve the LORD; for he is our God.

24:19    約書亞對百姓說，你們不能事奉耶和華。因為他是聖潔的神，是忌邪的神，必不赦免你們的過犯罪惡。
And Joshua said unto the people, Ye cannot serve the LORD: for he is an holy God; he is a jealous God; he will not forgive your transgressions nor your sins.

24:20    你們若離棄耶和華去事奉外邦神，耶和華在降福之後，必轉而降禍與你們，把你們滅絕。
If ye forsake the LORD, and serve strange gods, then he will turn and do you hurt, and consume you, after that he hath done you good.

24:21    百姓回答約書亞說，不然，我們定要事奉耶和華。
And the people said unto Joshua, Nay; but we will serve the LORD.

24:22    約書亞對百姓說，你們選定耶和華，要事奉他，你們自己作見證吧。他們說，我們願意作見證。
And Joshua said unto the people, Ye are witnesses against yourselves that ye have chosen you the LORD, to serve him. And they said, We are witnesses.

24:23    約書亞說，你們現在要除掉你們中間的外邦神，專心歸向耶和華以色列的神。
Now therefore put away, said he, the strange gods which are among you, and incline your heart unto the LORD God of Israel.

24:24    百姓回答約書亞說，我們必事奉耶和華我們的神，聽從他的話。
And the people said unto Joshua, The LORD our God will we serve, and his voice will we obey.

24:25    當日，約書亞就與百姓立約，在示劍為他們立定律例典章。
So Joshua made a covenant with the people that day, and set them a statute and an ordinance in Shechem.

24:26    約書亞將這些話都寫在神的律法書上，又將一塊大石頭立在橡樹下耶和華的聖所旁邊。
And Joshua wrote these words in the book of the law of God, and took a great stone, and set it up there under an oak, that was by the sanctuary of the LORD.

24:27    約書亞對百姓說，看哪，這石頭可以向我們作見證。因為是聽見了耶和華所吩咐我們的一切話，倘或你們背棄你們的神，這石頭就可以向你們作見證。
And Joshua said unto all the people, Behold, this stone shall be a witness unto us; for it hath heard all the words of the LORD which he spake unto us: it shall be therefore a witness unto you, lest ye deny your God.

24:28    於是約書亞打發百姓各歸自己的地業去了。
So Joshua let the people depart, every man unto his inheritance.

24:29    這些事以後，耶和華的僕人嫩的兒子約書亞，正一百一十歲，就死了。
And it came to pass after these things, that Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died, being an hundred and ten years old.

24:30    以色列人將他葬在他地業的境內，就是在以法蓮山地的亭拿西拉，在迦實山的北邊。
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathserah, which is in mount Ephraim, on the north side of the hill of Gaash.

24:31    約書亞在世和約書亞死後，那些知道耶和華為以色列人所行諸事的長老還在的時候，以色列人事奉耶和華。
And Israel served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that overlived Joshua, and which had known all the works of the LORD, that he had done for Israel.

24:32    以色列人從埃及所帶來約瑟的骸骨，葬埋在示劍，就是在雅各從前用一百塊銀子向示劍的父親，哈抹的子孫所買的那塊地裡。這就作了約瑟子孫的產業。
And the bones of Joseph, which the children of Israel brought up out of Egypt, buried they in Shechem, in a parcel of ground which Jacob bought of the sons of Hamor the father of Shechem for an hundred pieces of silver: and it became the inheritance of the children of Joseph.

24:33    亞倫的兒子以利亞撒也死了，就把他葬在他兒子非尼哈所得，以法蓮山地的小山上。
And Eleazar the son of Aaron died; and they buried him in a hill that pertained to Phinehas his son, which was given him in mount Ephraim.




