
舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


1:1    約書亞死後，以色列人求問耶和華說，我們中間誰當首先上去攻擊迦南人，與他們爭戰。
Now after the death of Joshua it came to pass, that the children of Israel asked the LORD, saying, Who shall go up for us against the Canaanites first, to fight against them?

1:2    耶和華說，猶大當先上去，我已將那地交在他手中。
And the LORD said, Judah shall go up: behold, I have delivered the land into his hand.

1:3    猶大對他哥哥西緬說，請你同我到拈鬮所得之地去，好與迦南人爭戰。以後我也同你到你拈鬮所得之地去。於是西緬與他同去。
And Judah said unto Simeon his brother, Come up with me into my lot, that we may fight against the Canaanites; and I likewise will go with thee into thy lot. So Simeon went with him.

1:4    猶大就上去，耶和華將迦南人和比利洗人交在他們手中。他們在比色擊殺了一萬人。
And Judah went up; and the LORD delivered the Canaanites and the Perizzites into their hand: and they slew of them in Bezek ten thousand men.

1:5    又在那裡遇見亞多尼比色，與他爭戰，殺敗迦南人和比利洗人。
And they found Adonibezek in Bezek: and they fought against him, and they slew the Canaanites and the Perizzites.

1:6    亞多尼比色逃跑。他們追趕，拿住他，砍斷他手腳的大姆指。
But Adonibezek fled; and they pursued after him, and caught him, and cut off his thumbs and his great toes.

1:7    亞多尼比色說，從前有七十個王，手腳的大姆指都被我砍斷，在我桌子底下拾取零碎食物。現在神按著我所行的報應我了。於是他們將亞多尼比色帶到耶路撒冷，他就死在那裡。
And Adonibezek said, Threescore and ten kings, having their thumbs and their great toes cut off, gathered their meat under my table: as I have done, so God hath requited me. And they brought him to Jerusalem, and there he died.

1:8    猶大人攻打耶路撒冷，將城攻取，用刀殺了城內的人，並且放火燒城。
Now the children of Judah had fought against Jerusalem, and had taken it, and smitten it with the edge of the sword, and set the city on fire.

1:9    後來猶大人下去，與住山地，南地，和高原的迦南人爭戰。
And afterward the children of Judah went down to fight against the Canaanites, that dwelt in the mountain, and in the south, and in the valley.

1:10    猶大人去攻擊住希伯侖的迦南人，殺了示篩，亞希幔，撻買。希伯侖從前名叫基列亞巴。
And Judah went against the Canaanites that dwelt in Hebron: (now the name of Hebron before was Kirjatharba:) and they slew Sheshai, and Ahiman, and Talmai.

1:11    他們從那裡去攻擊底壁的居民。底壁從前名叫基列西弗。
And from thence he went against the inhabitants of Debir: and the name of Debir before was Kirjathsepher:

1:12    迦勒說，誰能攻打基列西弗，將城奪取，我就把我女兒押撒給他為妻。
And Caleb said, He that smiteth Kirjathsepher, and taketh it, to him will I give Achsah my daughter to wife.

1:13    迦勒兄弟基納斯的兒子俄陀聶奪取了那城，迦勒就把女兒押撒給他為妻。
And Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother, took it: and he gave him Achsah his daughter to wife.

1:14    押撒過門的時候，勸繕夫向她父親求一塊田。押撒一下驢，迦勒問她說，你要什麼。
And it came to pass, when she came to him, that she moved him to ask of her father a field: and she lighted from off her ass; and Caleb said unto her, What wilt thou?

1:15    她說，求你賜福給我，你既將我安置在南地，求你也給我水泉。迦勒就把上泉下泉賜給她。
And she said unto him, Give me a blessing: for thou hast given me a south land; give me also springs of water. And Caleb gave her the upper springs and the nether springs.

1:16    摩西的內兄（或作岳父）是基尼人，他的子孫與猶大人一同離了棕樹城，往亞拉得以南的猶大曠野去，就住在民中。
And the children of the Kenite, Moses' father in law, went up out of the city of palm trees with the children of Judah into the wilderness of Judah, which lieth in the south of Arad; and they went and dwelt among the people.

1:17    猶大和他哥哥西緬同去，擊殺了住洗法的迦南人，將城盡行毀滅，那城的名便叫何珥瑪。
And Judah went with Simeon his brother, and they slew the Canaanites that inhabited Zephath, and utterly destroyed it. And the name of the city was called Hormah.

1:18    猶大又取了迦薩和迦薩的四境，亞實基倫和亞實基倫的四境，以革倫和以革倫的四境。
Also Judah took Gaza with the coast thereof, and Askelon with the coast thereof, and Ekron with the coast thereof.

1:19    耶和華與猶大同在，猶大就趕出山地的居民，只是不能趕出平原的居民，因為他們有鐵車。
And the LORD was with Judah; and he drave out the inhabitants of the mountain; but could not drive out the inhabitants of the valley, because they had chariots of iron.



1:20    以色列人照摩西所說的，將希伯侖給了迦勒。迦勒就從那裡趕出亞衲族的三個族長。
And they gave Hebron unto Caleb, as Moses said: and he expelled thence the three sons of Anak.

1:21    便雅憫人沒有趕出住耶路撒冷的耶布斯人。耶布斯人仍在耶路撒冷與便雅憫人同住，直到今日。
And the children of Benjamin did not drive out the Jebusites that inhabited Jerusalem; but the Jebusites dwell with the children of Benjamin in Jerusalem unto this day.

1:22    約瑟家也上去攻打伯特利。耶和華與他們同在。
And the house of Joseph, they also went up against Bethel: and the LORD was with them.

1:23    約瑟家打發人去窺探伯特利。那城起先名叫路斯。
And the house of Joseph sent to descry Bethel. (Now the name of the city before was Luz.)

1:24    窺探的人看見一個人從城裡出來，就對他說，求你將進城的路指示我們，我們必恩待你。
And the spies saw a man come forth out of the city, and they said unto him, Shew us, we pray thee, the entrance into the city, and we will shew thee mercy.

1:25    那人將進城的路指示他們，他們就用刀擊殺了城中的居民，但將那人和他全家放去。
And when he shewed them the entrance into the city, they smote the city with the edge of the sword; but they let go the man and all his family.

1:26    那人往赫人之地去，築了一座城，起名叫路斯。那城到如今還叫這名。
And the man went into the land of the Hittites, and built a city, and called the name thereof Luz: which is the name thereof unto this day.

1:27    瑪拿西沒有趕出伯善和屬伯善鄉村的居民，他納和屬他納鄉村的居民，多珥和屬多珥鄉村的居民，以伯蓮和屬以伯蓮鄉村的居民，米吉多和屬米吉多鄉村的居民。迦南人卻執意住在那些地方。
Neither did Manasseh drive out the inhabitants of Bethshean and her towns, nor Taanach and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Dor and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Ibleam and her towns, nor the inhabitants of Megiddo and her towns: but the Canaanites would dwell in that land.

1:28    及至以色列強盛了，就使迦南人作苦工，沒有把他們全然趕出。
And it came to pass, when Israel was strong, that they put the Canaanites to tribute, and did not utterly drive them out.

1:29    以法蓮沒有趕出住基色的迦南人。於是迦南人仍住在基色，在以法蓮中間。
Neither did Ephraim drive out the Canaanites that dwelt in Gezer; but the Canaanites dwelt in Gezer among them.

1:30    西布倫沒有趕出基倫的居民和拿哈拉的居民。於是迦南人仍住在西布倫中間，成了服苦的人。
Neither did Zebulun drive out the inhabitants of Kitron, nor the inhabitants of Nahalol; but the Canaanites dwelt among them, and became tributaries.

1:31    亞設沒有趕出亞柯和西頓的居民，亞黑拉和亞革悉的居民，黑巴，亞弗革與利合的居民。
Neither did Asher drive out the inhabitants of Accho, nor the inhabitants of Zidon, nor of Ahlab, nor of Achzib, nor of Helbah, nor of Aphik, nor of Rehob:

1:32    於是，亞設因為沒有趕出那地的迦南人，就住在他們中間。
But the Asherites dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: for they did not drive them out.

1:33    拿弗他利沒有趕出伯示麥和伯亞納的居民，於是拿弗他利就住在那地的迦南人中間。然而伯示麥和伯亞納的居民成了服苦的人。
Neither did Naphtali drive out the inhabitants of Bethshemesh, nor the inhabitants of Bethanath; but he dwelt among the Canaanites, the inhabitants of the land: nevertheless the inhabitants of Bethshemesh and of Bethanath became tributaries unto them.

1:34    亞摩利人強逼但人住在山地，不容他們下到平原。
And the Amorites forced the children of Dan into the mountain: for they would not suffer them to come down to the valley:

1:35    亞摩利人卻執意住在希烈山和亞雅倫並沙賓。然而約瑟家勝了他們，使他們成了服苦的人。
But the Amorites would dwell in mount Heres in Aijalon, and in Shaalbim: yet the hand of the house of Joseph prevailed, so that they became tributaries.

1:36    亞摩利人的境界，是從亞克拉浜坡，從西拉而上。
And the coast of the Amorites was from the going up to Akrabbim, from the rock, and upward.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


2:1    耶和華的使者從吉甲上到波金，對以色列人說，我使你們從埃及上來，領你們到我向你們列祖起誓應許之地。我又說，我永不廢棄與你們所立的約。
And an angel of the LORD came up from Gilgal to Bochim, and said, I made you to go up out of Egypt, and have brought you unto the land which I sware unto your fathers; and I said, I will never break my covenant with you.

2:2    你們也不可與這地的居民立約，要拆毀他們的祭壇。你們竟沒有聽從我的話。為何這樣行呢。
And ye shall make no league with the inhabitants of this land; ye shall throw down their altars: but ye have not obeyed my voice: why have ye done this?

2:3    因此我又說，我必不將他們從你們面前趕出。他們必作你們肋下的荊棘。他們的神必作你們的網羅。
Wherefore I also said, I will not drive them out from before you; but they shall be as thorns in your sides, and their gods shall be a snare unto you.

2:4    耶和華的使者向以色列眾人說這話的時候，百姓就放聲而哭。
And it came to pass, when the angel of the LORD spake these words unto all the children of Israel, that the people lifted up their voice, and wept.

2:5    於是給那地方起名叫波金（就是哭的意思）。眾人在那裡向耶和華獻祭。
And they called the name of that place Bochim: and they sacrificed there unto the LORD.

2:6    從前約書亞打發以色列百姓去的時候，他們各歸自己的地業，佔據地土。
And when Joshua had let the people go, the children of Israel went every man unto his inheritance to possess the land.

2:7    約書亞在世和約書亞死後，那些見耶和華為以色列人所行大事的長老還在的時候，百姓都事奉耶和華。
And the people served the LORD all the days of Joshua, and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua, who had seen all the great works of the LORD, that he did for Israel.

2:8    耶和華的僕人，嫩的兒子約書亞，正一百一十歲就死了。
And Joshua the son of Nun, the servant of the LORD, died, being an hundred and ten years old.

2:9    以色列人將他葬在他地業的境內，就是在以法蓮山地的亭拿希烈，在迦實山的北邊。
And they buried him in the border of his inheritance in Timnathheres, in the mount of Ephraim, on the north side of the hill Gaash.

2:10    那世代的人也都歸了自己的列祖。後來有別的世代興起，不知道耶和華，也不知道耶和華為以色列人所行的事。
And also all that generation were gathered unto their fathers: and there arose another generation after them, which knew not the LORD, nor yet the works which he had done for Israel.

2:11    以色列人行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，去事奉諸巴力，
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD, and served Baalim:

2:12    離棄了領他們出埃及地的耶和華他們列祖的神，去叩拜別神，就是四圍列國的神，惹耶和華髮怒。
And they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, which brought them out of the land of Egypt, and followed other gods, of the gods of the people that were round about them, and bowed themselves unto them, and provoked the LORD to anger.

2:13    並離棄耶和華，去事奉巴力和亞斯她錄。
And they forsook the LORD, and served Baal and Ashtaroth.

2:14    耶和華的怒氣向以色列人發作，就把他們交在搶奪他們的人手中，又將他們付與四圍仇敵的手中，甚至他們在仇敵面前再不能站立得住。
And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he delivered them into the hands of spoilers that spoiled them, and he sold them into the hands of their enemies round about, so that they could not any longer stand before their enemies.

2:15    他們無論往何處去，耶和華都以災禍攻擊他們，正如耶和華所說的話，又如耶和華向他們所起的誓。他們便極其困苦。
Whithersoever they went out, the hand of the LORD was against them for evil, as the LORD had said, and as the LORD had sworn unto them: and they were greatly distressed.

2:16    耶和華興起士師，士師就拯救他們脫離搶奪他們人的手。
Nevertheless the LORD raised up judges, which delivered them out of the hand of those that spoiled them.

2:17    他們卻不聽從士師，竟隨從叩拜別神，行了邪淫，速速地偏離他們列祖所行的道，不如他們列祖順從耶和華的命令。
And yet they would not hearken unto their judges, but they went a whoring after other gods, and bowed themselves unto them: they turned quickly out of the way which their fathers walked in, obeying the commandments of the LORD; but they did not so.

2:18    耶和華為他們興起士師，就與那士師同在。士師在世的一切日子，耶和華拯救他們脫離仇敵的手。他們因受欺壓擾害，就哀聲嘆氣，所以耶和華後悔了。
And when the LORD raised them up judges, then the LORD was with the judge, and delivered them out of the hand of their enemies all the days of the judge: for it repented the LORD because of their groanings by reason of them that oppressed them and vexed them.

2:19    及至士師死後，他們就轉去行惡，比他們列祖更甚，去事奉叩拜別神，總不斷絕頑梗的惡行。
And it came to pass, when the judge was dead, that they returned, and corrupted themselves more than their fathers, in following other gods to serve them, and to bow down unto them; they ceased not from their own doings, nor from their stubborn way.

2:20    於是耶和華的怒氣向以色列人發作。他說，因這民違揹我吩咐他們列祖所守的約，不聽從我的話，
And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel; and he said, Because that this people hath transgressed my covenant which I commanded their fathers, and have not hearkened unto my voice;

2:21    所以約書亞死的時候所剩下的各族，我必不再從他們面前趕出，
I also will not henceforth drive out any from before them of the nations which Joshua left when he died:

2:22    為要藉此試驗以色列人，看他們肯照他們列祖謹守遵行我的道不肯。
That through them I may prove Israel, whether they will keep the way of the LORD to walk therein, as their fathers did keep it, or not.

2:23    這樣耶和華留下各族，不將他們速速趕出，也沒有交付約書亞的手。
Therefore the LORD left those nations, without driving them out hastily; neither delivered he them into the hand of Joshua.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


3:1    耶和華留下這幾族，為要試驗那不曾知道與迦南爭戰之事的以色列人，
Now these are the nations which the LORD left, to prove Israel by them, even as many of Israel as had not known all the wars of Canaan;

3:2    好叫以色列的後代又知道又學習未曾曉得的戰事。
Only that the generations of the children of Israel might know, to teach them war, at the least such as before knew nothing thereof;

3:3    所留下的就是非利士的五個首領和一切迦南人，西頓人，並住黎巴嫩山的希未人，從巴力黑們山直到哈馬口。
Namely, five lords of the Philistines, and all the Canaanites, and the Sidonians, and the Hivites that dwelt in mount Lebanon, from mount Baalhermon unto the entering in of Hamath.

3:4    留下這幾族，為要試驗以色列人，知道他們肯聽從耶和華藉摩西吩咐他們列祖的誡命不肯。
And they were to prove Israel by them, to know whether they would hearken unto the commandments of the LORD, which he commanded their fathers by the hand of Moses.

3:5    以色列人竟住在迦南人，赫人，亞摩利人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人中間，
And the children of Israel dwelt among the Canaanites, Hittites, and Amorites, and Perizzites, and Hivites, and Jebusites:

3:6    娶他們的女兒為妻，將自己的女兒嫁給他們的兒子，並事奉他們的神。
And they took their daughters to be their wives, and gave their daughters to their sons, and served their gods.

3:7    以色列人行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，忘記耶和華他們的神，去事奉諸巴力和亞舍拉，
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD, and forgat the LORD their God, and served Baalim and the groves.

3:8    所以耶和華的怒氣向以色列人發作，就把他們交在美索不達米亞王古珊利薩田的手中。以色列人服事古珊利薩田八年。
Therefore the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hand of Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia: and the children of Israel served Chushanrishathaim eight years.

3:9    以色列人呼求耶和華的時候，耶和華就為他們興起一位拯救者救他們，就是迦勒兄弟基納斯的兒子俄陀聶。
And when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORD raised up a deliverer to the children of Israel, who delivered them, even Othniel the son of Kenaz, Caleb's younger brother.

3:10    耶和華的靈降在他身上，他就作了以色列的士師，出去爭戰。耶和華將美索不達米亞王古珊利薩田交在他手中，他便勝了古珊利薩田。
And the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he judged Israel, and went out to war: and the LORD delivered Chushanrishathaim king of Mesopotamia into his hand; and his hand prevailed against Chushanrishathaim.

3:11    於是國中太平四十年。基納斯的兒子俄陀聶死了。
And the land had rest forty years. And Othniel the son of Kenaz died.

3:12    以色列人又行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，耶和華就使摩押王伊磯倫強盛，攻擊以色列人。
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the LORD: and the LORD strengthened Eglon the king of Moab against Israel, because they had done evil in the sight of the LORD.

3:13    伊磯倫招聚亞捫人和亞瑪力人，去攻打以色列人，佔據棕樹城。
And he gathered unto him the children of Ammon and Amalek, and went and smote Israel, and possessed the city of palm trees.

3:14    於是以色列人服事摩押王伊磯倫十八年。
So the children of Israel served Eglon the king of Moab eighteen years.



3:15    以色列人呼求耶和華的時候，耶和華就為他們興起一位拯救者，就是便雅憫人基拉的兒子以笏。他是左手便利的。以色列人託他送禮物給摩押王伊磯倫。
But when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, the LORD raised them up a deliverer, Ehud the son of Gera, a Benjamite, a man lefthanded: and by him the children of Israel sent a present unto Eglon the king of Moab.

3:16    以笏打了一把兩刃的劍，長一肘，帶在右腿上衣服裡面。
But Ehud made him a dagger which had two edges, of a cubit length; and he did gird it under his raiment upon his right thigh.

3:17    他將禮物獻給摩押王伊磯倫，原來伊磯倫極其肥胖。
And he brought the present unto Eglon king of Moab: and Eglon was a very fat man.

3:18    以笏獻完禮物，便將抬禮物的人打發走了，
And when he had made an end to offer the present, he sent away the people that bare the present.

3:19    自己卻從靠近吉甲鑿石之地回來，說，王阿，我有一件機密事奏告你。王說，迴避吧。於是左右侍立的人都退去了。
But he himself turned again from the quarries that were by Gilgal, and said, I have a secret errand unto thee, O king: who said, Keep silence. And all that stood by him went out from him.

3:20    以笏來到王面前。王獨自一人坐在涼樓上。以笏說，我奉神的命報告你一件事。王就從座位上站起來。
And Ehud came unto him; and he was sitting in a summer parlour, which he had for himself alone. And Ehud said, I have a message from God unto thee. And he arose out of his seat.

3:21    以笏便伸左手，從右腿上拔出劍來，刺入王的肚腹，
And Ehud put forth his left hand, and took the dagger from his right thigh, and thrust it into his belly:

3:22    連劍把都刺進去了。劍被肥肉夾住，他沒有從王的肚腹拔出來，且穿通了後身。
And the haft also went in after the blade; and the fat closed upon the blade, so that he could not draw the dagger out of his belly; and the dirt came out.

3:23    以笏就出到遊廊，將樓門盡都關鎖。
Then Ehud went forth through the porch, and shut the doors of the parlour upon him, and locked them.

3:24    以笏出來之後，王的僕人到了，看見樓門關鎖，就說，他必是在樓上大解。
When he was gone out, his servants came; and when they saw that, behold, the doors of the parlour were locked, they said, Surely he covereth his feet in his summer chamber.

3:25    他們等煩了，見仍不開樓門，就拿鑰匙開了，不料，他們的主人已死，倒在地上。
And they tarried till they were ashamed: and, behold, he opened not the doors of the parlour; therefore they took a key, and opened them: and, behold, their lord was fallen down dead on the earth.

3:26    他們耽延的時候，以笏就逃跑了，經過鑿石之地，逃到西伊拉。
And Ehud escaped while they tarried, and passed beyond the quarries, and escaped unto Seirath.

3:27    到了，就在以法蓮山地吹角。以色列人隨著他下了山地，他在前頭引路，
And it came to pass, when he was come, that he blew a trumpet in the mountain of Ephraim, and the children of Israel went down with him from the mount, and he before them.

3:28    對他們說，你們隨我來，因為耶和華已經把你們的仇敵摩押人交在你們手中。於是他們跟著他下去，把守約旦河的渡口，不容摩押一人過去。
And he said unto them, Follow after me: for the LORD hath delivered your enemies the Moabites into your hand. And they went down after him, and took the fords of Jordan toward Moab, and suffered not a man to pass over.

3:29    那時擊殺了摩押人約有一萬，都是強壯的勇士，沒有一人逃脫。
And they slew of Moab at that time about ten thousand men, all lusty, and all men of valour; and there escaped not a man.

3:30    這樣，摩押就被以色列人制伏了。國中太平八十年。
So Moab was subdued that day under the hand of Israel. And the land had rest fourscore years.

3:31    以笏之後，有亞拿的兒子珊迦，他用趕牛的棍子打死六百非利士人。他也救了以色列人。
And after him was Shamgar the son of Anath, which slew of the Philistines six hundred men with an ox goad: and he also delivered Israel.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


4:1    以笏死後，以色列人又行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，
And the children of Israel again did evil in the sight of the LORD, when Ehud was dead.

4:2    耶和華就把他們付與在夏瑣作王的迦南王耶賓手中。他的將軍是西西拉，住在外邦人的夏羅設。
And the LORD sold them into the hand of Jabin king of Canaan, that reigned in Hazor; the captain of whose host was Sisera, which dwelt in Harosheth of the Gentiles.

4:3    耶賓王有鐵車九百輛。他大大欺壓以色列人二十年，以色列人就呼求耶和華。
And the children of Israel cried unto the LORD: for he had nine hundred chariots of iron; and twenty years he mightily oppressed the children of Israel.

4:4    有一位女先知名叫底波拉，是拉比多的妻，當時作以色列的士師。
And Deborah, a prophetess, the wife of Lapidoth, she judged Israel at that time.

4:5    她住在以法蓮山地拉瑪和伯特利中間，在底波拉的棕樹下。以色列人都上她那裡去聽判斷。
And she dwelt under the palm tree of Deborah between Ramah and Bethel in mount Ephraim: and the children of Israel came up to her for judgment.

4:6    她打發人從拿弗他利的基低斯將亞比挪庵的兒子巴拉召了來，對他說，耶和華以色列的神吩咐你說，你率領一萬拿弗他利和西布倫人上他泊山去。
And she sent and called Barak the son of Abinoam out of Kedeshnaphtali, and said unto him, Hath not the LORD God of Israel commanded, saying, Go and draw toward mount Tabor, and take with thee ten thousand men of the children of Naphtali and of the children of Zebulun?

4:7    我必使耶賓的將軍西西拉率領他的車輛和全軍往基順河，到你那裡去。我必將他交在你手中。
And I will draw unto thee to the river Kishon Sisera, the captain of Jabin's army, with his chariots and his multitude; and I will deliver him into thine hand.

4:8    巴拉說，你若同我去，我就去。你若不同我去，我就不去。
And Barak said unto her, If thou wilt go with me, then I will go: but if thou wilt not go with me, then I will not go.

4:9    底波拉說，我必與你同去，只是你在所行的路上得不著榮耀，因為耶和華要將西西拉交在一個婦人手裡。於是底波拉起來，與巴拉一同往基低斯去了。
And she said, I will surely go with thee: notwithstanding the journey that thou takest shall not be for thine honour; for the LORD shall sell Sisera into the hand of a woman. And Deborah arose, and went with Barak to Kedesh.

4:10    巴拉就招聚西布倫人和拿弗他利人到基低斯，跟他上去的有一萬人。底波拉也同他上去。
And Barak called Zebulun and Naphtali to Kedesh; and he went up with ten thousand men at his feet: and Deborah went up with him.

4:11    摩西嶽父（或作內兄）何巴的後裔，基尼人希百曾離開基尼族，到靠近基低斯撒拿音的橡樹旁支搭帳棚。
Now Heber the Kenite, which was of the children of Hobab the father in law of Moses, had severed himself from the Kenites, and pitched his tent unto the plain of Zaanaim, which is by Kedesh.

4:12    有人告訴西西拉說，亞比挪庵的兒子巴拉已經上他泊山了。
And they shewed Sisera that Barak the son of Abinoam was gone up to mount Tabor.

4:13    西西拉就聚集所有的鐵車九百輛和跟隨他的全軍，從外邦人的夏羅設出來，到了基順河。
And Sisera gathered together all his chariots, even nine hundred chariots of iron, and all the people that were with him, from Harosheth of the Gentiles unto the river of Kishon.

4:14    底波拉對巴拉說，你起來，今日就是耶和華將西西拉交在你手的日子。耶和華豈不在你前頭行嗎。於是巴拉下了他泊山，跟隨他有一萬人。
And Deborah said unto Barak, Up; for this is the day in which the LORD hath delivered Sisera into thine hand: is not the LORD gone out before thee? So Barak went down from mount Tabor, and ten thousand men after him.

4:15    耶和華使西西拉和他一切車輛全軍潰亂，在巴拉麵前被刀殺敗。西西拉下車步行逃跑。
And the LORD discomfited Sisera, and all his chariots, and all his host, with the edge of the sword before Barak; so that Sisera lighted down off his chariot, and fled away on his feet.

4:16    巴拉追趕車輛，軍隊，直到外邦人的夏羅設。西西拉的全軍都倒在刀下，沒有留下一人。
But Barak pursued after the chariots, and after the host, unto Harosheth of the Gentiles: and all the host of Sisera fell upon the edge of the sword; and there was not a man left.

4:17    只有西西拉步行逃跑，到了基尼人希百之妻雅億的帳棚，因為夏瑣王耶賓與基尼人希百家和好。
Howbeit Sisera fled away on his feet to the tent of Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite: for there was peace between Jabin the king of Hazor and the house of Heber the Kenite.

4:18    雅億出來迎接西西拉，對他說，請我主進來，不要懼怕。西西拉就進了她的帳棚。雅憶用被將他遮蓋。
And Jael went out to meet Sisera, and said unto him, Turn in, my lord, turn in to me; fear not. And when he had turned in unto her into the tent, she covered him with a mantle.

4:19    西西拉對雅億說，我渴了，求你給我一點水喝。雅億就開啟皮袋，給他奶子喝，仍舊把他遮蓋。
And he said unto her, Give me, I pray thee, a little water to drink; for I am thirsty. And she opened a bottle of milk, and gave him drink, and covered him.

4:20    西西拉又對雅億說，請你站在帳棚門口，若有人來問你說，有人在這裡沒有。你就說，沒有。
Again he said unto her, Stand in the door of the tent, and it shall be, when any man doth come and enquire of thee, and say, Is there any man here? that thou shalt say, No.

4:21    西西拉疲乏沉睡。希百的妻雅億取了帳棚的橛子，手裡拿著錘子，輕悄悄地到他旁邊，將橛子從他鬢邊釘進去，釘入地裡。西西拉就死了。
Then Jael Heber's wife took a nail of the tent, and took an hammer in her hand, and went softly unto him, and smote the nail into his temples, and fastened it into the ground: for he was fast asleep and weary. So he died.

4:22    巴拉追趕西西拉的時候，雅億出來迎接他說，來吧，我將你所尋梢的人給你看。他就進入帳棚，看見西西拉已經死了，倒在地上，橛子還在他鬢中。
And, behold, as Barak pursued Sisera, Jael came out to meet him, and said unto him, Come, and I will shew thee the man whom thou seekest. And when he came into her tent, behold, Sisera lay dead, and the nail was in his temples.

4:23    這樣，神使迦南王耶賓被以色列人制伏了。
So God subdued on that day Jabin the king of Canaan before the children of Israel.

4:24    從此以色列人的手越發有力，勝了迦南王耶賓，直到將他滅絕了。
And the hand of the children of Israel prospered, and prevailed against Jabin the king of Canaan, until they had destroyed Jabin king of Canaan.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


5:1    那時，底波拉和亞比挪庵的兒子巴拉作歌，說，
Then sang Deborah and Barak the son of Abinoam on that day, saying,

5:2    因為以色列中有軍長率領，百姓也甘心犧牲自己，你們應當頌讚耶和華。
Praise ye the LORD for the avenging of Israel, when the people willingly offered themselves.

5:3    君王阿，要聽。王子阿，要側耳而聽。我要向耶和華歌唱，我要歌頌耶和華以色列的神。
Hear, O ye kings; give ear, O ye princes; I, even I, will sing unto the LORD; I will sing praise to the LORD God of Israel.

5:4    耶和華阿，你從西珥出來，由以東地行走。那時地震天漏，雲也落雨。
LORD, when thou wentest out of Seir, when thou marchedst out of the field of Edom, the earth trembled, and the heavens dropped, the clouds also dropped water.

5:5    山見耶和華的面就震動，西奈山見耶和華以色列神的面也是如此。
The mountains melted from before the LORD, even that Sinai from before the LORD God of Israel.

5:6    在亞拿之子珊迦的時候，又在雅億的日子，大道無人行走，都是繞道而行。
In the days of Shamgar the son of Anath, in the days of Jael, the highways were unoccupied, and the travellers walked through byways.

5:7    以色列中的官長停職，直到我底波拉興起，等我興起作以色列的母。
The inhabitants of the villages ceased, they ceased in Israel, until that I Deborah arose, that I arose a mother in Israel.

5:8    以色列人選擇新神，爭戰的事就臨到城門。那時，以色列四萬人中豈能見盾牌槍矛呢。
They chose new gods; then was war in the gates: was there a shield or spear seen among forty thousand in Israel?

5:9    我心傾向以色列的首領，他們在民中甘心犧牲自己。你們應當頌讚耶和華。
My heart is toward the governors of Israel, that offered themselves willingly among the people. Bless ye the LORD.

5:10    騎白驢的，坐繡花毯子的，行路的，你們都當傳揚。
Speak, ye that ride on white asses, ye that sit in judgment, and walk by the way.

5:11    在遠離弓箭響聲打水之處，人必述說耶和華公義的作為，就是他治理以色列公義的作為。那時耶和華的民下到城門。
They that are delivered from the noise of archers in the places of drawing water, there shall they rehearse the righteous acts of the LORD, even the righteous acts toward the inhabitants of his villages in Israel: then shall the people of the LORD go down to the gates.

5:12    底波拉阿，興起。興起。你當興起，興起，唱歌。亞比挪庵的兒子巴拉阿，你當奮興，擄掠你的敵人。
Awake, awake, Deborah: awake, awake, utter a song: arise, Barak, and lead thy captivity captive, thou son of Abinoam.

5:13    那時有餘剩的貴胄和百姓一同下來。耶和華降臨，為我攻擊勇士。
Then he made him that remaineth have dominion over the nobles among the people: the LORD made me have dominion over the mighty.

5:14    有根本在亞瑪力人的地，從以法蓮下來的。便雅憫在民中跟隨你。有掌權的從瑪吉下來。有持杖檢點民數的從西布倫下來。
Out of Ephraim was there a root of them against Amalek; after thee, Benjamin, among thy people; out of Machir came down governors, and out of Zebulun they that handle the pen of the writer.

5:15    以薩迦的首領與底波拉同來。以薩迦怎樣，巴拉也怎樣。眾人都跟隨巴拉衝下平原。在呂便的溪水旁有心中定大志的。
And the princes of Issachar were with Deborah; even Issachar, and also Barak: he was sent on foot into the valley. For the divisions of Reuben there were great thoughts of heart.

5:16    你為何坐在羊圈內聽群中吹笛的聲音呢。在呂便的溪水旁有心中設大謀的。
Why abodest thou among the sheepfolds, to hear the bleatings of the flocks? For the divisions of Reuben there were great searchings of heart.

5:17    基列人安居在約旦河外。但人為何等在船上。亞設人在海口靜坐，在港口安居。
Gilead abode beyond Jordan: and why did Dan remain in ships? Asher continued on the sea shore, and abode in his breaches.

5:18    西布倫人是拚命敢死的。拿弗他利人在田野的高處也是如此。
Zebulun and Naphtali were a people that jeoparded their lives unto the death in the high places of the field.

5:19    君王都來爭戰。那時迦南諸王在米吉多水旁的他納爭戰，卻未得擄掠銀錢。
The kings came and fought, then fought the kings of Canaan in Taanach by the waters of Megiddo; they took no gain of money.

5:20    星宿從天上爭戰，從其軌道攻擊西西拉。
They fought from heaven; the stars in their courses fought against Sisera.

5:21    基順古河把敵人衝沒。我的靈阿，應當努力前行。
The river of Kishon swept them away, that ancient river, the river Kishon. O my soul, thou hast trodden down strength.

5:22    那時壯馬馳驅，踢跳，奔騰。
Then were the horsehoofs broken by the means of the pransings, the pransings of their mighty ones.

5:23    耶和華的使者說，應當咒詛米羅斯，大大咒詛其中的居民。因為他們不來幫助耶和華，不來幫助耶和華攻擊勇士。
Curse ye Meroz, said the angel of the LORD, curse ye bitterly the inhabitants thereof; because they came not to the help of the LORD, to the help of the LORD against the mighty.

5:24    願基尼人希百的妻雅億比眾婦人多得福氣，比住帳棚的婦人更蒙福祉。
Blessed above women shall Jael the wife of Heber the Kenite be, blessed shall she be above women in the tent.

5:25    西西拉求水，雅億給他奶子，用寶貴的盤子給他奶油。
He asked water, and she gave him milk; she brought forth butter in a lordly dish.

5:26    雅億左手拿著帳棚的橛子，右手拿著匠人的錘子，擊打西西拉，打傷他的頭，把他的鬢角打破穿通。
She put her hand to the nail, and her right hand to the workmen's hammer; and with the hammer she smote Sisera, she smote off his head, when she had pierced and stricken through his temples.

5:27    西西拉在她腳前曲身仆倒，在她腳前曲身倒臥。在那裡曲身，就在那裡死亡。
At her feet he bowed, he fell, he lay down: at her feet he bowed, he fell: where he bowed, there he fell down dead.

5:28    西西拉的母親從窗戶裡往外觀看，從窗櫺中呼叫說，他的戰車為何耽延不來呢。他的車輪為何行得慢呢。
The mother of Sisera looked out at a window, and cried through the lattice, Why is his chariot so long in coming? why tarry the wheels of his chariots?

5:29    聰明的宮女安慰她（原文作回答她），她也自言自語地說，
Her wise ladies answered her, yea, she returned answer to herself,

5:30    他們莫非得財而分。每人得了一兩個女子。西西拉得了綵衣為擄物，得繡花的綵衣為掠物。這綵衣兩面繡花，乃是披在被擄之人頸項上的。
Have they not sped? have they not divided the prey; to every man a damsel or two; to Sisera a prey of divers colours, a prey of divers colours of needlework, of divers colours of needlework on both sides, meet for the necks of them that take the spoil?

5:31    耶和華阿，願你的仇敵都這樣滅亡。願愛你的人如日頭出現，光輝烈烈。這樣，國中太平四十年。
So let all thine enemies perish, O LORD: but let them that love him be as the sun when he goeth forth in his might. And the land had rest forty years.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


6:1    以色列人又行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，耶和華就把他們交在米甸人手裡七年。
And the children of Israel did evil in the sight of the LORD: and the LORD delivered them into the hand of Midian seven years.

6:2    米甸人壓制以色列人。以色列人因為米甸人，就在山中挖穴，挖洞，建造營寨。
And the hand of Midian prevailed against Israel: and because of the Midianites the children of Israel made them the dens which are in the mountains, and caves, and strong holds.

6:3    以色列人每逢撒種之後，米甸人，亞瑪力人，和東方人都上來攻打他們，
And so it was, when Israel had sown, that the Midianites came up, and the Amalekites, and the children of the east, even they came up against them;

6:4    對著他們安營，毀壞土產，直到迦薩，沒有給以色列人留下食物，牛，羊，驢也沒有留下。
And they encamped against them, and destroyed the increase of the earth, till thou come unto Gaza, and left no sustenance for Israel, neither sheep, nor ox, nor ass.

6:5    因為那些人帶著牲畜帳棚來，像蝗蟲那樣多，人和駱駝無數，都進入國內，毀壞全地。
For they came up with their cattle and their tents, and they came as grasshoppers for multitude; for both they and their camels were without number: and they entered into the land to destroy it.

6:6    以色列人因米甸人的緣故，極其窮乏，就呼求耶和華。
And Israel was greatly impoverished because of the Midianites; and the children of Israel cried unto the LORD.

6:7    以色列人因米甸人的緣故，呼求耶和華，
And it came to pass, when the children of Israel cried unto the LORD because of the Midianites,

6:8    耶和華就差遣先知到以色列人那裡，對他們說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，我曾領你們從埃及上來，出了為奴之家，
That the LORD sent a prophet unto the children of Israel, which said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, I brought you up from Egypt, and brought you forth out of the house of bondage;

6:9    救你們脫離埃及人的手，並脫離一切欺壓你們之人的手，把他們從你們面前趕出，將他們的地賜給你們。
And I delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all that oppressed you, and drave them out from before you, and gave you their land;

6:10    又對你們說，我是耶和華你們的神。你們住在亞摩利人的地，不可敬畏他們的神。你們竟不聽從我的話。
And I said unto you, I am the LORD your God; fear not the gods of the Amorites, in whose land ye dwell: but ye have not obeyed my voice.

6:11    耶和華的使者到了俄弗拉，坐在亞比以謝族人約阿施的橡樹下。約阿施的兒子基甸正在酒榨那裡打麥子，為要防備米甸人。
And there came an angel of the LORD, and sat under an oak which was in Ophrah, that pertained unto Joash the Abiezrite: and his son Gideon threshed wheat by the winepress, to hide it from the Midianites.

6:12    耶和華的使者向基甸顯現，對他說，大能的勇士阿，耶和華與你同在。
And the angel of the LORD appeared unto him, and said unto him, The LORD is with thee, thou mighty man of valour.

6:13    基甸說，主阿，耶和華若與我們同在，我們何至遭遇這一切事呢。我們的列祖不是向我們說耶和華領我們從埃及上來嗎。他那樣奇妙的作為在哪裡呢。現在他卻丟棄我們，將我們交在米甸人手裡。
And Gideon said unto him, Oh my Lord, if the LORD be with us, why then is all this befallen us? and where be all his miracles which our fathers told us of, saying, Did not the LORD bring us up from Egypt? but now the LORD hath forsaken us, and delivered us into the hands of the Midianites.

6:14    耶和華觀看基甸，說，你靠著你這能力去從米甸人手裡拯救以色列人，不是我差遣你去的嗎。
And the LORD looked upon him, and said, Go in this thy might, and thou shalt save Israel from the hand of the Midianites: have not I sent thee?

6:15    基甸說，主阿，我有何能拯救以色列人呢。我家在瑪拿西支派中是至貧窮的。我在我父家是至微小的。
And he said unto him, Oh my Lord, wherewith shall I save Israel? behold, my family is poor in Manasseh, and I am the least in my father's house.

6:16    耶和華對他說，我與你同在，你就必擊打米甸人，如擊打一人一樣。
And the LORD said unto him, Surely I will be with thee, and thou shalt smite the Midianites as one man.

6:17    基甸說，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你給我一個證據，使我知道與我說話的就是主。
And he said unto him, If now I have found grace in thy sight, then shew me a sign that thou talkest with me.

6:18    求你不要離開這裡，等我歸回將禮物帶來供在你面前。主說，我必等你回來。
Depart not hence, I pray thee, until I come unto thee, and bring forth my present, and set it before thee. And he said, I will tarry until thou come again.

6:19    基甸去預備了一隻山羊羔，用一伊法細面作了無酵餅，將肉放在筐內，把湯盛在壺中，帶到橡樹下，獻在使者面前。
And Gideon went in, and made ready a kid, and unleavened cakes of an ephah of flour: the flesh he put in a basket, and he put the broth in a pot, and brought it out unto him under the oak, and presented it.

6:20    神的使者吩咐基甸說，將肉和無酵餅放在這磐石上，把湯倒出來。他就這樣行了。
And the angel of God said unto him, Take the flesh and the unleavened cakes, and lay them upon this rock, and pour out the broth. And he did so.

6:21    耶和華的使者伸出手內的杖，杖頭捱了肉和無酵餅，就有火從磐石中出來，燒盡了肉和無酵餅。耶和華的使者也就不見了。
Then the angel of the LORD put forth the end of the staff that was in his hand, and touched the flesh and the unleavened cakes; and there rose up fire out of the rock, and consumed the flesh and the unleavened cakes. Then the angel of the LORD departed out of his sight.

6:22    基甸見他是耶和華的使者，就說，哀哉。主耶和華阿，我不好了，因為我覿面看見耶和華的使者。
And when Gideon perceived that he was an angel of the LORD, Gideon said, Alas, O LORD God! for because I have seen an angel of the LORD face to face.

6:23    耶和華對他說，你放心，不要懼怕，你必不至死。
And the LORD said unto him, Peace be unto thee; fear not: thou shalt not die.

6:24    於是基甸在那裡為耶和華築了一座壇，起名叫耶和華沙龍（就是耶和華賜平安的意思）。這壇在亞比以謝族的俄弗拉直到如今。
Then Gideon built an altar there unto the LORD, and called it Jehovahshalom: unto this day it is yet in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.

6:25    當那夜，耶和華吩咐基甸說，你取你父親的牛來，就是（或作和）那七歲的第二隻牛，並拆毀你父親為巴力所築的壇，砍下壇旁的木偶，
And it came to pass the same night, that the LORD said unto him, Take thy father's young bullock, even the second bullock of seven years old, and throw down the altar of Baal that thy father hath, and cut down the grove that is by it:

6:26    在這磐石（原文作保障）上整整齊齊地為耶和華你的神築一座壇，將第二隻牛獻為燔祭，用你所砍下的木偶作柴。
And build an altar unto the LORD thy God upon the top of this rock, in the ordered place, and take the second bullock, and offer a burnt sacrifice with the wood of the grove which thou shalt cut down.

6:27    基甸就從他僕人中挑了十個人，照著耶和華吩咐他的行了。他因怕父家和本城的人，不敢在白晝行這事，就在夜間行了。
Then Gideon took ten men of his servants, and did as the LORD had said unto him: and so it was, because he feared his father's household, and the men of the city, that he could not do it by day, that he did it by night.

6:28    城裡的人清早起來，見巴力的壇拆毀，壇旁的木偶砍下，第二隻牛獻在新築的壇上，
And when the men of the city arose early in the morning, behold, the altar of Baal was cast down, and the grove was cut down that was by it, and the second bullock was offered upon the altar that was built.

6:29    就彼此說，這事是誰作的呢。他們訪查之後，就說，這是約阿施的兒子基甸作的。
And they said one to another, Who hath done this thing? And when they enquired and asked, they said, Gideon the son of Joash hath done this thing.

6:30    城裡的人對約阿施說，將你兒子交出來，好治死他。因為他拆毀了巴力的壇，砍下壇旁的木偶。
Then the men of the city said unto Joash, Bring out thy son, that he may die: because he hath cast down the altar of Baal, and because he hath cut down the grove that was by it.

6:31    約阿施回答站著攻擊他的眾人說，你們是為巴力爭論嗎。你們要救他嗎。誰為他爭論，趁早將誰治死。巴力若果是神，有人拆毀他的壇，讓他為自己爭論吧。
And Joash said unto all that stood against him, Will ye plead for Baal? will ye save him? he that will plead for him, let him be put to death whilst it is yet morning: if he be a god, let him plead for himself, because one hath cast down his altar.

6:32    所以當日人稱基甸為耶路巴力，意思說，他拆毀巴力的壇，讓巴力與他爭論。
Therefore on that day he called him Jerubbaal, saying, Let Baal plead against him, because he hath thrown down his altar.

6:33    那時，米甸人，亞瑪力人，和東方人都聚集過河，在耶斯列平原安營。
Then all the Midianites and the Amalekites and the children of the east were gathered together, and went over, and pitched in the valley of Jezreel.

6:34    耶和華的靈降在基甸身上，他就吹角。亞比以謝族都聚集跟隨他。
But the Spirit of the LORD came upon Gideon, and he blew a trumpet; and Abiezer was gathered after him.

6:35    他打發人走遍瑪拿西地，瑪拿西人也聚集跟隨他。又打發人去見亞設人，西布倫人，拿弗他利人，他們也都出來與他們會合。
And he sent messengers throughout all Manasseh; who also was gathered after him: and he sent messengers unto Asher, and unto Zebulun, and unto Naphtali; and they came up to meet them.

6:36    基甸對神說，你若果照著所說的話，藉我手拯救以色列人，
And Gideon said unto God, If thou wilt save Israel by mine hand, as thou hast said,

6:37    我就把一團羊毛放在禾場上，若單是羊毛上有露水，別的地方都是乾的，我就知道你必照著所說的話，藉我手拯救以色列人。
Behold, I will put a fleece of wool in the floor; and if the dew be on the fleece only, and it be dry upon all the earth beside, then shall I know that thou wilt save Israel by mine hand, as thou hast said.

6:38    次日早晨基甸起來，見果然是這樣。將羊毛擠一擠，從羊毛中擰出滿盆的露水來。
And it was so: for he rose up early on the morrow, and thrust the fleece together, and wringed the dew out of the fleece, a bowl full of water.

6:39    基甸又對神說，求你不要向我發怒，我再說這一次，讓我將羊毛再試一次。但願羊毛是乾的，別的地方都有露水。
And Gideon said unto God, Let not thine anger be hot against me, and I will speak but this once: let me prove, I pray thee, but this once with the fleece; let it now be dry only upon the fleece, and upon all the ground let there be dew.

6:40    這夜神也如此行，獨羊毛上是乾的，別的地方都有露水。
And God did so that night: for it was dry upon the fleece only, and there was dew on all the ground.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


7:1    耶路巴力就是基甸，他和一切跟隨的人早晨起來，在哈律泉旁安營。米甸營在他們北邊的平原，靠近摩利岡。
Then Jerubbaal, who is Gideon, and all the people that were with him, rose up early, and pitched beside the well of Harod: so that the host of the Midianites were on the north side of them, by the hill of Moreh, in the valley.

7:2    耶和華對基甸說，跟隨你的人過多，我不能將米甸人交在他們手中，免得以色列人向我誇大，說，是我們自己的手救了我們。
And the LORD said unto Gideon, The people that are with thee are too many for me to give the Midianites into their hands, lest Israel vaunt themselves against me, saying, Mine own hand hath saved me.

7:3    現在你要向這些人宣告說，凡懼怕膽怯的，可以離開基列山回去。於是有二萬二千人回去，只剩下一萬。
Now therefore go to, proclaim in the ears of the people, saying, Whosoever is fearful and afraid, let him return and depart early from mount Gilead. And there returned of the people twenty and two thousand; and there remained ten thousand.

7:4    耶和華對基甸說，人還是過多。你要帶他們下到水旁，我好在那裡為你試試他們。我指點誰說，這人可以同你去，他就可以同你去。我指點誰說，這人不可同你去，他就不可同你去。
And the LORD said unto Gideon, The people are yet too many; bring them down unto the water, and I will try them for thee there: and it shall be, that of whom I say unto thee, This shall go with thee, the same shall go with thee; and of whomsoever I say unto thee, This shall not go with thee, the same shall not go.

7:5    基甸就帶他們下到水旁。耶和華對基甸說，凡用舌頭舔水，像狗舔的，要使他單站在一處。凡跪下喝水的，也要使他單站在一處。
So he brought down the people unto the water: and the LORD said unto Gideon, Every one that lappeth of the water with his tongue, as a dog lappeth, him shalt thou set by himself; likewise every one that boweth down upon his knees to drink.

7:6    於是用手捧著舔水的有三百人，其餘的都跪下喝水。
And the number of them that lapped, putting their hand to their mouth, were three hundred men: but all the rest of the people bowed down upon their knees to drink water.

7:7    耶和華對基甸說，我要用這舔水的三百人拯救你們，將米甸人交在你手中。其餘的人都可以各歸各處去。
And the LORD said unto Gideon, By the three hundred men that lapped will I save you, and deliver the Midianites into thine hand: and let all the other people go every man unto his place.

7:8    這三百人就帶著食物和角。其餘的以色列人，基甸都打發他們各歸各的帳棚，只留下這三百人。米甸營在他下邊的平原裡。
So the people took victuals in their hand, and their trumpets: and he sent all the rest of Israel every man unto his tent, and retained those three hundred men: and the host of Midian was beneath him in the valley.

7:9    當那夜，耶和華吩咐基甸說，起來，下到米甸營裡去，因我已將他們交在你手中。
And it came to pass the same night, that the LORD said unto him, Arise, get thee down unto the host; for I have delivered it into thine hand.

7:10    倘若你怕下去，就帶你的僕人普拉下到那營裡去。
But if thou fear to go down, go thou with Phurah thy servant down to the host:

7:11    你必聽見他們所說的，然後你就有膽量下去攻營。於是基甸帶著僕人普拉下到營旁。
And thou shalt hear what they say; and afterward shall thine hands be strengthened to go down unto the host. Then went he down with Phurah his servant unto the outside of the armed men that were in the host.

7:12    米甸人，亞瑪力人，和一切東方人都佈散在平原，如同蝗蟲那樣多。他們的駱駝無數，多如海邊的沙。
And the Midianites and the Amalekites and all the children of the east lay along in the valley like grasshoppers for multitude; and their camels were without number, as the sand by the sea side for multitude.

7:13    基甸到了，就聽見一人將夢告訴同伴說，我作了一夢，夢見一個大麥餅滾入米甸營中，到了帳幕，將帳幕撞倒，帳幕就翻轉傾覆了。
And when Gideon was come, behold, there was a man that told a dream unto his fellow, and said, Behold, I dreamed a dream, and, lo, a cake of barley bread tumbled into the host of Midian, and came unto a tent, and smote it that it fell, and overturned it, that the tent lay along.

7:14    那同伴說，這不是別的，乃是以色列人約阿施的兒子基甸的刀。神已將米甸和全軍都交在他的手中。
And his fellow answered and said, This is nothing else save the sword of Gideon the son of Joash, a man of Israel: for into his hand hath God delivered Midian, and all the host.

7:15    基甸聽見這夢和夢的講解，就敬拜神，回到以色列營中，說，起來吧。耶和華已將米甸的軍隊交在你們手中了。
And it was so, when Gideon heard the telling of the dream, and the interpretation thereof, that he worshipped, and returned into the host of Israel, and said, Arise; for the LORD hath delivered into your hand the host of Midian.

7:16    於是基甸將三百人分作三隊，把角和空瓶交在各人手裡，瓶內都藏著火把，
And he divided the three hundred men into three companies, and he put a trumpet in every man's hand, with empty pitchers, and lamps within the pitchers.

7:17    吩咐他們說，你們要看我行事，我到了營的旁邊怎樣行，你們也要怎樣行。
And he said unto them, Look on me, and do likewise: and, behold, when I come to the outside of the camp, it shall be that, as I do, so shall ye do.

7:18    我和一切跟隨我的人吹角的時候，你們也要在營的四圍吹角，喊叫說，耶和華和基甸的刀。
When I blow with a trumpet, I and all that are with me, then blow ye the trumpets also on every side of all the camp, and say, The sword of the LORD, and of Gideon.

7:19    基甸和跟隨他的一百人，在三更之初才換更的時候，來到營旁，就吹角，打破手中的瓶。
So Gideon, and the hundred men that were with him, came unto the outside of the camp in the beginning of the middle watch; and they had but newly set the watch: and they blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers that were in their hands.

7:20    三隊的人就都吹角，打破瓶子，左手拿著火把，右手拿著角，喊叫說，耶和華和基甸的刀。
And the three companies blew the trumpets, and brake the pitchers, and held the lamps in their left hands, and the trumpets in their right hands to blow withal: and they cried, The sword of the LORD, and of Gideon.

7:21    他們在營的四圍各站各的地方。全營的人都亂竄。三百人吶喊，使他們逃跑。
And they stood every man in his place round about the camp; and all the host ran, and cried, and fled.

7:22    三百人就吹角，耶和華使全營的人用刀互相擊殺，逃到西利拉的伯哈示他，直逃到靠近他巴的亞伯米何拉。
And the three hundred blew the trumpets, and the LORD set every man's sword against his fellow, even throughout all the host: and the host fled to Bethshittah in Zererath, and to the border of Abelmeholah, unto Tabbath.

7:23    以色列人就從拿弗他利，亞設，和瑪拿西全地聚集來追趕米甸人。
And the men of Israel gathered themselves together out of Naphtali, and out of Asher, and out of all Manasseh, and pursued after the Midianites.

7:24    基甸打發人走遍以法蓮山地，說，你們下來攻擊米甸人，爭先把守約旦河的渡口，直到伯巴拉。於是以法蓮的眾人聚集，把守約旦河的渡口，直到伯巴拉，
And Gideon sent messengers throughout all mount Ephraim, saying, Come down against the Midianites, and take before them the waters unto Bethbarah and Jordan. Then all the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and took the waters unto Bethbarah and Jordan.

7:25    捉住了米甸人的兩個首領，一名俄立，一名西伊伯。將俄立殺在俄立磐石上，將西伊伯殺在西伊伯酒榨那裡。又追趕米甸人，將俄立和西伊伯的首級帶過約旦河，到基甸那裡。
And they took two princes of the Midianites, Oreb and Zeeb; and they slew Oreb upon the rock Oreb, and Zeeb they slew at the winepress of Zeeb, and pursued Midian, and brought the heads of Oreb and Zeeb to Gideon on the other side Jordan.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


8:1    以法蓮人對基甸說，你去與米甸人爭戰，沒有招我們同去，為什麼這樣待我們呢。他們就與基甸大大地爭吵。
And the men of Ephraim said unto him, Why hast thou served us thus, that thou calledst us not, when thou wentest to fight with the Midianites? And they did chide with him sharply.

8:2    基甸對他們說，我所行的豈能比你們所行的呢。以法蓮拾取剩下的葡萄不強過亞比以謝所摘的葡萄嗎。
And he said unto them, What have I done now in comparison of you? Is not the gleaning of the grapes of Ephraim better than the vintage of Abiezer?

8:3    神已將米甸人的兩個首領俄立和西伊伯交在你們手中。我所行的豈能比你們所行的呢。基甸說了這話，以法蓮人的怒氣就消了。
God hath delivered into your hands the princes of Midian, Oreb and Zeeb: and what was I able to do in comparison of you? Then their anger was abated toward him, when he had said that.

8:4    基甸和跟隨他的三百人到約旦河過渡，雖然疲乏，還是追趕。
And Gideon came to Jordan, and passed over, he, and the three hundred men that were with him, faint, yet pursuing them.

8:5    基甸對疏割人說，求你們拿餅來給跟隨我的人吃，因為他們疲乏了。我們追趕米甸人的兩個王西巴和撒慕拿。
And he said unto the men of Succoth, Give, I pray you, loaves of bread unto the people that follow me; for they be faint, and I am pursuing after Zebah and Zalmunna, kings of Midian.

8:6    疏割人的首領回答說，西巴和撒慕拿已經在你手裡，你使我們將餅給你的軍兵嗎。
And the princes of Succoth said, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thine army?

8:7    基甸說，耶和華將西巴和撒慕拿交在我手之後，我就用野地的荊條和枳棘打傷你們。
And Gideon said, Therefore when the LORD hath delivered Zebah and Zalmunna into mine hand, then I will tear your flesh with the thorns of the wilderness and with briers.

8:8    基甸從那裡上到毗努伊勒，對那裡的人也是這樣說。毗努伊勒人也與疏割人回答他的話一樣。
And he went up thence to Penuel, and spake unto them likewise: and the men of Penuel answered him as the men of Succoth had answered him.

8:9    他向毗努伊勒人說，我平平安安回來的時候，我必拆毀這樓。
And he spake also unto the men of Penuel, saying, When I come again in peace, I will break down this tower.

8:10    那時西巴和撒慕拿，並跟隨他們的軍隊都在加各，約有一萬五千人，就是東方人全軍所剩下的。已經被殺約有十二萬拿刀的。
Now Zebah and Zalmunna were in Karkor, and their hosts with them, about fifteen thousand men, all that were left of all the hosts of the children of the east: for there fell an hundred and twenty thousand men that drew sword.

8:11    基甸就由挪巴和約比哈東邊，從住帳棚人的路上去，殺敗了米甸人的軍兵，因為他們坦然無懼。
And Gideon went up by the way of them that dwelt in tents on the east of Nobah and Jogbehah, and smote the host: for the host was secure.

8:12    西巴和撒慕拿逃跑。基甸追趕他們，捉住米甸的二王西巴和撒慕拿，驚散全軍。
And when Zebah and Zalmunna fled, he pursued after them, and took the two kings of Midian, Zebah and Zalmunna, and discomfited all the host.

8:13    約阿施的兒子基甸由希列斯坡從陣上回來，
And Gideon the son of Joash returned from battle before the sun was up,

8:14    捉住疏割的一個少年人，問他，疏割的首領長老是誰。他就將首領長老七十七個人的名字寫出來。
And caught a young man of the men of Succoth, and enquired of him: and he described unto him the princes of Succoth, and the elders thereof, even threescore and seventeen men.

8:15    基甸到了疏割，對那裡的人說，你們從前譏誚我說，西巴和撒慕拿已經在你手裡，你使我們將餅給跟隨你的疲乏人嗎。現在西巴和撒慕拿在這裡。
And he came unto the men of Succoth, and said, Behold Zebah and Zalmunna, with whom ye did upbraid me, saying, Are the hands of Zebah and Zalmunna now in thine hand, that we should give bread unto thy men that are weary?

8:16    於是捉住那城內的長老，用野地的荊條和枳棘責打（原文作指教）疏割人。
And he took the elders of the city, and thorns of the wilderness and briers, and with them he taught the men of Succoth.

8:17    又拆了毗努伊勒的樓，殺了那城裡的人。
And he beat down the tower of Penuel, and slew the men of the city.

8:18    基甸問西巴和撒慕拿說，你們在他泊山所殺的人是什麼樣式。回答說，他們好像你，各人都有王子的樣式。
Then said he unto Zebah and Zalmunna, What manner of men were they whom ye slew at Tabor? And they answered, As thou art, so were they; each one resembled the children of a king.

8:19    基甸說，他們是我同母的弟兄，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，你們從前若存留他們的性命，我如今就不殺你們了。
And he said, They were my brethren, even the sons of my mother: as the LORD liveth, if ye had saved them alive, I would not slay you.

8:20    於是對他的長子益帖說，你起來殺他們。但益帖因為是童子，害怕，不敢拔刀。
And he said unto Jether his firstborn, Up, and slay them. But the youth drew not his sword: for he feared, because he was yet a youth.

8:21    西巴和撒慕拿說，你自己起來殺我們吧。因為人如何，力量也是如何。基甸就起來，殺了西巴和撒慕拿，奪獲他們駱駝項上戴的月牙圈。
Then Zebah and Zalmunna said, Rise thou, and fall upon us: for as the man is, so is his strength. And Gideon arose, and slew Zebah and Zalmunna, and took away the ornaments that were on their camels' necks.

8:22    以色列人對基甸說，你既救我們脫離米甸人的手，願你和你的兒孫管理我們。
Then the men of Israel said unto Gideon, Rule thou over us, both thou, and thy son, and thy son's son also: for thou hast delivered us from the hand of Midian.

8:23    基甸說，我不管理你們，我的兒子也不管理你們，惟有耶和華管理你們。
And Gideon said unto them, I will not rule over you, neither shall my son rule over you: the LORD shall rule over you.

8:24    基甸又對他們說，我有一件事求你們，請你們各人將所奪的耳環給我。原來仇敵是以實瑪利人，都是戴金耳環的。）
And Gideon said unto them, I would desire a request of you, that ye would give me every man the earrings of his prey. (For they had golden earrings, because they were Ishmaelites.)

8:25    他們說，我們情願給你。就鋪開一件外衣，各人將所奪的耳環丟在其上。
And they answered, We will willingly give them. And they spread a garment, and did cast therein every man the earrings of his prey.

8:26    基甸所要出來的金耳環重一千七百舍客勒金子。此外還有米甸王所戴的月環，耳墜，和所穿的紫色衣服，並駱駝項上的金鍊子。
And the weight of the golden earrings that he requested was a thousand and seven hundred shekels of gold; beside ornaments, and collars, and purple raiment that was on the kings of Midian, and beside the chains that were about their camels' necks.

8:27    基甸以此製造了一個以弗得，設立在本城俄弗拉。後來以色列人拜那以弗得行了邪淫。這就作了基甸和他全家的網羅。
And Gideon made an ephod thereof, and put it in his city, even in Ophrah: and all Israel went thither a whoring after it: which thing became a snare unto Gideon, and to his house.

8:28    這樣，米甸人被以色列人制伏了，不敢再抬頭。基甸還在的日子，國中太平四十年。
Thus was Midian subdued before the children of Israel, so that they lifted up their heads no more. And the country was in quietness forty years in the days of Gideon.

8:29    約阿施的兒子耶路巴力回去，住在自己家裡。
And Jerubbaal the son of Joash went and dwelt in his own house.

8:30    基甸有七十個親生的兒子，因為他有許多的妻。
And Gideon had threescore and ten sons of his body begotten: for he had many wives.

8:31    他的妾住在示劍，也給他生了一個兒子。基甸與他起名叫亞比米勒。
And his concubine that was in Shechem, she also bare him a son, whose name he called Abimelech.

8:32    約阿施的兒子基甸，年紀老邁而死，葬在亞比以謝族的俄弗拉，在他父親約阿施的墳墓裡。
And Gideon the son of Joash died in a good old age, and was buried in the sepulchre of Joash his father, in Ophrah of the Abiezrites.

8:33    基甸死後，以色列人又去隨從諸巴力行邪淫，以巴力比利土為他們的神。
And it came to pass, as soon as Gideon was dead, that the children of Israel turned again, and went a whoring after Baalim, and made Baalberith their god.

8:34    以色列人不記念耶和華他們的神，就是拯救他們脫離四圍仇敵之手的，
And the children of Israel remembered not the LORD their God, who had delivered them out of the hands of all their enemies on every side:

8:35    也不照著耶路巴力，就是基甸向他們所施的恩惠厚待他的家。
Neither shewed they kindness to the house of Jerubbaal, namely, Gideon, according to all the goodness which he had shewed unto Israel.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


9:1    耶路巴力的兒子亞比米勒到了示劍見他的眾母舅，對他們和他外祖全家的人說，
And Abimelech the son of Jerubbaal went to Shechem unto his mother's brethren, and communed with them, and with all the family of the house of his mother's father, saying,

9:2    請你們問示劍的眾人說，是耶路巴力的眾子七十人都管理你們好呢。還是一人管理你們好呢。你們又要記念我是你們的骨肉。
Speak, I pray you, in the ears of all the men of Shechem, Whether is better for you, either that all the sons of Jerubbaal, which are threescore and ten persons, reign over you, or that one reign over you? remember also that I am your bone and your flesh.

9:3    他的眾母舅便將這一切話為他說給示劍人聽，示劍人的心就歸向亞比米勒。他們說，他原是我們的弟兄。
And his mother's brethren spake of him in the ears of all the men of Shechem all these words: and their hearts inclined to follow Abimelech; for they said, He is our brother.

9:4    就從巴力比利土的廟中取了七十舍客勒銀子給亞比米勒。亞比米勒用以僱了些匪徒跟隨他。
And they gave him threescore and ten pieces of silver out of the house of Baalberith, wherewith Abimelech hired vain and light persons, which followed him.

9:5    他往俄弗拉到他父親的家，將他弟兄，耶路巴力的眾子七十人都殺在一塊磐石上。只剩下耶路巴力的小兒子約坦，因為他躲藏了。
And he went unto his father's house at Ophrah, and slew his brethren the sons of Jerubbaal, being threescore and ten persons, upon one stone: notwithstanding yet Jotham the youngest son of Jerubbaal was left; for he hid himself.

9:6    示劍人和米羅人都一同聚集，往示劍橡樹旁的柱子那裡，立亞比米勒為王。
And all the men of Shechem gathered together, and all the house of Millo, and went, and made Abimelech king, by the plain of the pillar that was in Shechem.

9:7    有人將這事告訴約坦，他就去站在基利心山頂上，向眾人大聲喊叫說，示劍人哪，你們要聽我的話，神也就聽你們的話。
And when they told it to Jotham, he went and stood in the top of mount Gerizim, and lifted up his voice, and cried, and said unto them, Hearken unto me, ye men of Shechem, that God may hearken unto you.

9:8    有一時樹木要膏一樹為王，管理他們，就去對橄欖樹說，請你作我們的王。
The trees went forth on a time to anoint a king over them; and they said unto the olive tree, Reign thou over us.

9:9    橄欖樹回答說，我豈肯止住供奉神和尊重人的油，飄搖在眾樹之上呢。
But the olive tree said unto them, Should I leave my fatness, wherewith by me they honour God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?

9:10    樹木對無花果樹說，請你來作我們的王。
And the trees said to the fig tree, Come thou, and reign over us.

9:11    無花果樹回答說，我豈肯止住所結甜美的果子，飄搖在眾樹之上呢。
But the fig tree said unto them, Should I forsake my sweetness, and my good fruit, and go to be promoted over the trees?

9:12    樹木對葡萄樹說，請你來作我們的王。
Then said the trees unto the vine, Come thou, and reign over us.

9:13    葡萄樹回答說，我豈肯止住使神和人喜樂的新酒，飄搖在眾樹之上呢。
And the vine said unto them, Should I leave my wine, which cheereth God and man, and go to be promoted over the trees?

9:14    眾樹對荊棘說，請你來作我們的王。
Then said all the trees unto the bramble, Come thou, and reign over us.

9:15    荊棘回答說，你們若誠誠實實地膏我為王，就要投在我的蔭下。不然，願火從荊棘裡出來，燒滅黎巴嫩的香柏樹。
And the bramble said unto the trees, If in truth ye anoint me king over you, then come and put your trust in my shadow: and if not, let fire come out of the bramble, and devour the cedars of Lebanon.

9:16    現在你們立亞比米勒為王，若按誠實正直善待耶路巴力和他的全家，這就是酬他的勞。
Now therefore, if ye have done truly and sincerely, in that ye have made Abimelech king, and if ye have dealt well with Jerubbaal and his house, and have done unto him according to the deserving of his hands;

9:17    從前我父冒死為你們爭戰，救了你們脫離米甸人的手。
(For my father fought for you, and adventured his life far, and delivered you out of the hand of Midian:

9:18    你們如今起來攻擊我的父家，將他眾子七十人殺在一塊磐石上，又立他婢女所生的兒子亞比米勒為示劍人的王。他原是你們的弟兄。
And ye are risen up against my father's house this day, and have slain his sons, threescore and ten persons, upon one stone, and have made Abimelech, the son of his maidservant, king over the men of Shechem, because he is your brother;)

9:19    你們如今若按誠實正直待耶路巴力和他的家，就可因亞比米勒得歡樂，他也可因你們得歡樂。
If ye then have dealt truly and sincerely with Jerubbaal and with his house this day, then rejoice ye in Abimelech, and let him also rejoice in you:

9:20    不然，願火從亞比米勒發出，燒滅示劍人和米羅眾人，又願火從示劍人和米羅人中出來，燒滅亞比米勒。
But if not, let fire come out from Abimelech, and devour the men of Shechem, and the house of Millo; and let fire come out from the men of Shechem, and from the house of Millo, and devour Abimelech.

9:21    約坦因怕他弟兄亞比米勒，就逃跑，來到比珥，住在那裡。
And Jotham ran away, and fled, and went to Beer, and dwelt there, for fear of Abimelech his brother.

9:22    亞比米勒管理以色列人三年。
When Abimelech had reigned three years over Israel,

9:23    神使惡魔降在亞比米勒和示劍人中間，示劍人就以詭詐待亞比米勒。
Then God sent an evil spirit between Abimelech and the men of Shechem; and the men of Shechem dealt treacherously with Abimelech:

9:24    這是要叫耶路巴力七十個兒子所受的殘害歸與他們的哥哥亞比米勒，又叫那流他們血的罪歸與幫助他殺弟兄的示劍人。
That the cruelty done to the threescore and ten sons of Jerubbaal might come, and their blood be laid upon Abimelech their brother, which slew them; and upon the men of Shechem, which aided him in the killing of his brethren.

9:25    示劍人在山頂上設埋伏，等候亞比米勒。凡從他們那裡經過的人，他們就搶奪。有人將這事告訴亞比米勒。
And the men of Shechem set liers in wait for him in the top of the mountains, and they robbed all that came along that way by them: and it was told Abimelech.

9:26    以別的兒子迦勒和他的弟兄來到示劍，示劍人都信靠他。
And Gaal the son of Ebed came with his brethren, and went over to Shechem: and the men of Shechem put their confidence in him.

9:27    示劍人出城到田間去，摘下葡萄，踹酒，設擺筵宴，進他們神的廟中吃喝，咒詛亞比米勒。
And they went out into the fields, and gathered their vineyards, and trode the grapes, and made merry, and went into the house of their god, and did eat and drink, and cursed Abimelech.

9:28    以別的兒子迦勒說，亞比米勒是誰。示劍是誰。使我們服事他呢。他不是耶路巴力的兒子嗎。他的幫手不是西布勒嗎。你們可以服事示劍的父親哈抹的後裔。我們為何服事亞比米勒呢？
And Gaal the son of Ebed said, Who is Abimelech, and who is Shechem, that we should serve him? is not he the son of Jerubbaal? and Zebul his officer? serve the men of Hamor the father of Shechem: for why should we serve him?

9:29    惟願這民歸我的手下，我就除掉亞比米勒。迦勒又對亞比米勒說，增添你的軍兵出來吧。
And would to God this people were under my hand! then would I remove Abimelech. And he said to Abimelech, Increase thine army, and come out.

9:30    邑宰西布勒聽見以別的兒子迦勒的話，就發怒，
And when Zebul the ruler of the city heard the words of Gaal the son of Ebed, his anger was kindled.

9:31    悄悄地打發人去見亞比米勒，說，以別的兒子迦勒和他的弟兄到了示劍，煽惑城中的民攻擊你。
And he sent messengers unto Abimelech privily, saying, Behold, Gaal the son of Ebed and his brethren be come to Shechem; and, behold, they fortify the city against thee.

9:32    現在你和跟隨你的人今夜起來，在田間埋伏。
Now therefore up by night, thou and the people that is with thee, and lie in wait in the field:

9:33    到早晨太陽一出，你就起來闖城。迦勒和跟隨他的人出來攻擊你的時候，你便向他們見機而作。
And it shall be, that in the morning, as soon as the sun is up, thou shalt rise early, and set upon the city: and, behold, when he and the people that is with him come out against thee, then mayest thou do to them as thou shalt find occasion.

9:34    於是，亞比米勒和跟隨他的眾人夜間起來，分作四隊，埋伏等候示劍人。
And Abimelech rose up, and all the people that were with him, by night, and they laid wait against Shechem in four companies.

9:35    以別的兒子迦勒出去，站在城門口。亞比米勒和跟隨他的人從埋伏之處起來。
And Gaal the son of Ebed went out, and stood in the entering of the gate of the city: and Abimelech rose up, and the people that were with him, from lying in wait.

9:36    迦勒看見那些人，就對西布勒說，看哪，有人從山頂上下來了。西布勒說，你看見山的影子，以為是人。
And when Gaal saw the people, he said to Zebul, Behold, there come people down from the top of the mountains. And Zebul said unto him, Thou seest the shadow of the mountains as if they were men.

9:37    迦勒又說，看哪，有人從高處下來，又有一隊從米惡尼尼橡樹的路上而來。
And Gaal spake again and said, See there come people down by the middle of the land, and another company come along by the plain of Meonenim.

9:38    西布勒對他說，你曾說，亞比米勒是誰，叫我們服事他。你所誇的口在哪裡呢。這不是你所藐視的民嗎。你現在出去，與他們交戰吧。
Then said Zebul unto him, Where is now thy mouth, wherewith thou saidst, Who is Abimelech, that we should serve him? is not this the people that thou hast despised? go out, I pray now, and fight with them.

9:39    於是迦勒率領示劍人出去，與亞比米勒交戰。
And Gaal went out before the men of Shechem, and fought with Abimelech.

9:40    亞比米勒追趕迦勒。迦勒在他面前逃跑，有許多受傷仆倒的，直到城門。
And Abimelech chased him, and he fled before him, and many were overthrown and wounded, even unto the entering of the gate.

9:41    亞比米勒住在亞魯瑪。西布勒趕出迦勒和他弟兄，不准他們住在示劍。
And Abimelech dwelt at Arumah: and Zebul thrust out Gaal and his brethren, that they should not dwell in Shechem.



9:42    次日，民出到田間，有人告訴亞比米勒。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people went out into the field; and they told Abimelech.

9:43    他就把他的人分作三隊，埋伏在田間，看見示劍人從城裡出來，就起來擊殺他們。
And he took the people, and divided them into three companies, and laid wait in the field, and looked, and, behold, the people were come forth out of the city; and he rose up against them, and smote them.

9:44    亞比米勒和跟隨他的一隊向前闖去，站在城門口。那兩隊直闖到田間，擊殺了眾人。
And Abimelech, and the company that was with him, rushed forward, and stood in the entering of the gate of the city: and the two other companies ran upon all the people that were in the fields, and slew them.

9:45    亞比米勒整天攻打城，將城奪取，殺了其中的居民，將城拆毀，撒上了鹽。
And Abimelech fought against the city all that day; and he took the city, and slew the people that was therein, and beat down the city, and sowed it with salt.

9:46    示劍樓的人聽見了，就躲入巴力比利土廟的衛所。
And when all the men of the tower of Shechem heard that, they entered into an hold of the house of the god Berith.

9:47    有人告訴亞比米勒說，示劍樓的人都聚在一處。
And it was told Abimelech, that all the men of the tower of Shechem were gathered together.

9:48    亞比米勒和跟隨他的人就都上撒們山。亞比米勒手拿斧子，砍下一根樹枝，扛在肩上，對跟隨他的人說，你們看我所行的，也當趕緊照樣行。
And Abimelech gat him up to mount Zalmon, he and all the people that were with him; and Abimelech took an axe in his hand, and cut down a bough from the trees, and took it, and laid it on his shoulder, and said unto the people that were with him, What ye have seen me do, make haste, and do as I have done.

9:49    眾人就各砍一枝，跟隨亞比米勒，把樹枝堆在衛所的四圍，放火燒了衛所，以致示劍樓的人都死了，男女約有一千。
And all the people likewise cut down every man his bough, and followed Abimelech, and put them to the hold, and set the hold on fire upon them; so that all the men of the tower of Shechem died also, about a thousand men and women.

9:50    亞比米勒到提備斯，向提備斯安營，就攻取了那城。
Then went Abimelech to Thebez, and encamped against Thebez, and took it.

9:51    城中有一座堅固的樓。城裡的眾人，無論男女，都逃進樓去，關上門，上了樓頂。
But there was a strong tower within the city, and thither fled all the men and women, and all they of the city, and shut it to them, and gat them up to the top of the tower.

9:52    亞比米勒到了樓前攻打，挨近樓門，要用火焚燒。
And Abimelech came unto the tower, and fought against it, and went hard unto the door of the tower to burn it with fire.

9:53    有一個婦人把一塊上磨石拋在亞比米勒的頭上，打破了他的腦骨。
And a certain woman cast a piece of a millstone upon Abimelech's head, and all to brake his skull.

9:54    他就急忙喊叫拿他兵器的少年人，對他說，拔出你的刀來，殺了我吧。免得人議論我說，他為一個婦人所殺。於是少年人把他刺透，他就死了。
Then he called hastily unto the young man his armourbearer, and said unto him, Draw thy sword, and slay me, that men say not of me, A woman slew him. And his young man thrust him through, and he died.

9:55    以色列人見亞比米勒死了，便各回自己的地方去了。
And when the men of Israel saw that Abimelech was dead, they departed every man unto his place.

9:56    這樣，神報應亞比米勒向他父親所行的惡，就是殺了弟兄七十個人的惡。
Thus God rendered the wickedness of Abimelech, which he did unto his father, in slaying his seventy brethren:

9:57    示劍人的一切惡，神也都報應在他們頭上。耶路巴力的兒子約坦的咒詛歸到他們身上了。
And all the evil of the men of Shechem did God render upon their heads: and upon them came the curse of Jotham the son of Jerubbaal.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


10:1    亞比米勒以後，有以薩迦人朵多的孫子，普瓦的兒子陀拉興起，拯救以色列人。他住在以法蓮山地的沙密。
And after Abimelech there arose to defend Israel Tola the son of Puah, the son of Dodo, a man of Issachar; and he dwelt in Shamir in mount Ephraim.

10:2    陀拉作以色列的士師二十三年，就死了，葬在沙密。
And he judged Israel twenty and three years, and died, and was buried in Shamir.



10:3    在他以後有基列人睚珥興起，作以色列的士師二十二年。
And after him arose Jair, a Gileadite, and judged Israel twenty and two years.

10:4    他有三十個兒子，騎著三十匹驢駒。他們有三十座城邑，叫作哈倭特睚珥，直到如今，都是在基列地。
And he had thirty sons that rode on thirty ass colts, and they had thirty cities, which are called Havothjair unto this day, which are in the land of Gilead.

10:5    睚珥死了，就葬在加們。
And Jair died, and was buried in Camon.

10:6    以色列人又行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，去事奉諸巴力和亞斯她錄，並亞蘭的神，西頓的神，摩押的神，亞捫人的神，非利士人的神，離棄耶和華，不事奉他
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the LORD, and served Baalim, and Ashtaroth, and the gods of Syria, and the gods of Zidon, and the gods of Moab, and the gods of the children of Ammon, and the gods of the Philistines, and forsook the LORD, and served not him.



10:7    耶和華的怒氣向以色列人發作，就把他們交在非利士人和亞捫人的手中。
And the anger of the LORD was hot against Israel, and he sold them into the hands of the Philistines, and into the hands of the children of Ammon.

10:8    從那年起，他們擾害欺壓約旦河那邊，住亞摩利人之基列地的以色列人，共有十八年。
And that year they vexed and oppressed the children of Israel: eighteen years, all the children of Israel that were on the other side Jordan in the land of the Amorites, which is in Gilead.

10:9    亞捫人又渡過約旦河去攻打猶大和便雅憫，並以法蓮族。以色列人就甚覺窘迫。
Moreover the children of Ammon passed over Jordan to fight also against Judah, and against Benjamin, and against the house of Ephraim; so that Israel was sore distressed.

10:10    以色列人哀求耶和華說，我們得罪了你。因為離棄了我們神，去事奉諸巴力。
And the children of Israel cried unto the LORD, saying, We have sinned against thee, both because we have forsaken our God, and also served Baalim.

10:11    耶和華對以色列人說，我豈沒有救過你們脫離埃及人，亞摩利人，亞捫人，和非利士人嗎。
And the LORD said unto the children of Israel, Did not I deliver you from the Egyptians, and from the Amorites, from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines?

10:12    西頓人，亞瑪力人，馬雲人也都欺壓你們。你們哀求我，我也拯救你們脫離他們的手。
The Zidonians also, and the Amalekites, and the Maonites, did oppress you; and ye cried to me, and I delivered you out of their hand.

10:13    你們竟離棄我，事奉別神。所以我不再救你們了。
Yet ye have forsaken me, and served other gods: wherefore I will deliver you no more.

10:14    你們去哀求所選擇的神。你們遭遇急難的時候，讓他救你們吧。
Go and cry unto the gods which ye have chosen; let them deliver you in the time of your tribulation.

10:15    以色列人對耶和華說，我們犯罪了，任憑你隨意待我們吧。只求你今日拯救我們。
And the children of Israel said unto the LORD, We have sinned: do thou unto us whatsoever seemeth good unto thee; deliver us only, we pray thee, this day.

10:16    以色列人就除掉他們中間的外邦神，事奉耶和華。耶和華因以色列人受的苦難，就心中擔憂。
And they put away the strange gods from among them, and served the LORD: and his soul was grieved for the misery of Israel.

10:17    當時亞捫人聚集，安營在基列。以色列人也聚集，安營在米斯巴。
Then the children of Ammon were gathered together, and encamped in Gilead. And the children of Israel assembled themselves together, and encamped in Mizpeh.

10:18    基列的民和眾首領彼此商議說，誰能先去攻打亞捫人，誰必作基列一切居民的領袖。
And the people and princes of Gilead said one to another, What man is he that will begin to fight against the children of Ammon? he shall be head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


11:1    基列人耶弗他是個大能的勇士，是妓女的兒子。耶弗他是基列所生的。
Now Jephthah the Gileadite was a mighty man of valour, and he was the son of an harlot: and Gilead begat Jephthah.

11:2    基列的妻也生了幾個兒子，他妻所生的兒子長大了，就趕逐耶弗他，說，你不可在我們父家承受產業，因為你是妓女的兒子。
And Gilead's wife bare him sons; and his wife's sons grew up, and they thrust out Jephthah, and said unto him, Thou shalt not inherit in our father's house; for thou art the son of a strange woman.

11:3    耶弗他就逃避他的弟兄，去住在陀伯地，有些匪徒到他那裡聚集，與他一同出入。
Then Jephthah fled from his brethren, and dwelt in the land of Tob: and there were gathered vain men to Jephthah, and went out with him.

11:4    過了些日子，亞捫人攻打以色列。
And it came to pass in process of time, that the children of Ammon made war against Israel.

11:5    亞捫人攻打以色列的時候，基列的長老到陀伯地去，要叫耶弗他回來。
And it was so, that when the children of Ammon made war against Israel, the elders of Gilead went to fetch Jephthah out of the land of Tob:

11:6    對耶弗他說，請你來作我們的元帥，我們好與亞捫人爭戰。
And they said unto Jephthah, Come, and be our captain, that we may fight with the children of Ammon.

11:7    耶弗他回答基列的長老說，從前你們不是恨我，趕逐我出離父家嗎。現在你們遭遇急難為何到我這裡來呢。
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, Did not ye hate me, and expel me out of my father's house? and why are ye come unto me now when ye are in distress?

11:8    基列的長老回答耶弗他說，現在我們到你這裡來，是要你同我們去，與亞捫人爭戰。你可以作基列一切居民的領袖。
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, Therefore we turn again to thee now, that thou mayest go with us, and fight against the children of Ammon, and be our head over all the inhabitants of Gilead.

11:9    耶弗他對基列的長老說，你們叫我回去，與亞捫人爭戰，耶和華把他交給我，我可以作你們的領袖嗎。
And Jephthah said unto the elders of Gilead, If ye bring me home again to fight against the children of Ammon, and the LORD deliver them before me, shall I be your head?

11:10    基列的長老回答耶弗他說，有耶和華在你我中間作見證，我們必定照你的話行。
And the elders of Gilead said unto Jephthah, The LORD be witness between us, if we do not so according to thy words.

11:11    於是耶弗他同基列的長老回去，百姓就立耶弗他作領袖，作元帥。耶弗他在米斯巴將自己的一切話陳明在耶和華面前。
Then Jephthah went with the elders of Gilead, and the people made him head and captain over them: and Jephthah uttered all his words before the LORD in Mizpeh.

11:12    耶弗他打發使者去見亞捫人的王，說，你與我有什麼相干，竟來到我國中攻打我呢。
And Jephthah sent messengers unto the king of the children of Ammon, saying, What hast thou to do with me, that thou art come against me to fight in my land?

11:13    亞捫人的王回答耶弗他的使者說，因為以色列人從埃及上來的時候佔據我的地，從亞嫩河到雅博河，直到約旦河。現在你要好好地將這地歸還吧。
And the king of the children of Ammon answered unto the messengers of Jephthah, Because Israel took away my land, when they came up out of Egypt, from Arnon even unto Jabbok, and unto Jordan: now therefore restore those lands again peaceably.

11:14    耶弗他又打發使者去見亞捫人的王，
And Jephthah sent messengers again unto the king of the children of Ammon:

11:15    對他說，耶弗他如此說，以色列人並沒有佔據摩押地和亞捫人的地。
And said unto him, Thus saith Jephthah, Israel took not away the land of Moab, nor the land of the children of Ammon:

11:16    以色列人從埃及上來乃是經過曠野到紅海，來到加低斯，
But when Israel came up from Egypt, and walked through the wilderness unto the Red sea, and came to Kadesh;

11:17    就打發使者去見以東王，說，求你容我從你的地經過。以東王卻不應允。又照樣打發使者去見摩押王，他也不允准。以色列人就住在加低斯。
Then Israel sent messengers unto the king of Edom, saying, Let me, I pray thee, pass through thy land: but the king of Edom would not hearken thereto. And in like manner they sent unto the king of Moab: but he would not consent: and Israel abode in Kadesh.

11:18    他們又經過曠野，繞著以東和摩押地，從摩押地的東邊過來，在亞嫩河邊安營，並沒有入摩押的境內，因為亞嫩河是摩押的邊界。
Then they went along through the wilderness, and compassed the land of Edom, and the land of Moab, and came by the east side of the land of Moab, and pitched on the other side of Arnon, but came not within the border of Moab: for Arnon was the border of Moab.

11:19    以色列人打發使者去見亞摩利王西巨集，就是希實本的王，對他說，求你容我們從你的地經過，往我們自己的地方去。
And Israel sent messengers unto Sihon king of the Amorites, the king of Heshbon; and Israel said unto him, Let us pass, we pray thee, through thy land into my place.

11:20    西巨集卻不信服以色列人，不容他們經過他的境界，乃招聚他的眾民在雅雜安營，與以色列人爭戰。
But Sihon trusted not Israel to pass through his coast: but Sihon gathered all his people together, and pitched in Jahaz, and fought against Israel.

11:21    耶和華以色列的神將西巨集和他的眾民都交在以色列人手中，以色列人就擊殺他們，得了亞摩利人的全地，
And the LORD God of Israel delivered Sihon and all his people into the hand of Israel, and they smote them: so Israel possessed all the land of the Amorites, the inhabitants of that country.

11:22    從亞嫩河到雅博河，從曠野直到約旦河。
And they possessed all the coasts of the Amorites, from Arnon even unto Jabbok, and from the wilderness even unto Jordan.

11:23    耶和華以色列的神在他百姓以色列面前趕出亞摩利人，你竟要得他們的地嗎。
So now the LORD God of Israel hath dispossessed the Amorites from before his people Israel, and shouldest thou possess it?

11:24    你的神基抹所賜你的地你不是得為業嗎。耶和華我們的神在我們面前所趕出的人，我們就得他的地。
Wilt not thou possess that which Chemosh thy god giveth thee to possess? So whomsoever the LORD our God shall drive out from before us, them will we possess.

11:25    難道你比摩押王西撥的兒子巴勒還強嗎。他曾與以色列人爭競，或是與他們爭戰嗎。
And now art thou any thing better than Balak the son of Zippor, king of Moab? did he ever strive against Israel, or did he ever fight against them,

11:26    以色列人住希實本和屬希實本的鄉村，亞羅珥和屬亞羅珥的鄉村，並沿亞嫩河的一切城邑，已經有三百年了。在這三百年之內，你們為什麼沒有取回這些地方呢。
While Israel dwelt in Heshbon and her towns, and in Aroer and her towns, and in all the cities that be along by the coasts of Arnon, three hundred years? why therefore did ye not recover them within that time?

11:27    原來我沒有得罪你，你卻攻打我，惡待我。願審判人的耶和華今日在以色列人和亞捫人中間判斷是非。
Wherefore I have not sinned against thee, but thou doest me wrong to war against me: the LORD the Judge be judge this day between the children of Israel and the children of Ammon.

11:28    但亞捫人的王不肯聽耶弗他打發人說的話。
Howbeit the king of the children of Ammon hearkened not unto the words of Jephthah which he sent him.

11:29    耶和華的靈降在耶弗他身上，他就經過基列和瑪拿西，來到基列的米斯巴，又從米斯巴來到亞捫人那裡。
Then the Spirit of the LORD came upon Jephthah, and he passed over Gilead, and Manasseh, and passed over Mizpeh of Gilead, and from Mizpeh of Gilead he passed over unto the children of Ammon.

11:30    耶弗他就向耶和華許願，說，你若將亞捫人交在我手中，
And Jephthah vowed a vow unto the LORD, and said, If thou shalt without fail deliver the children of Ammon into mine hands,

11:31    我從亞捫人那裡平平安安回來的時候，無論什麼人，先從我家門出來迎接我，就必歸你，我也必將他獻上為燔祭。
Then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the LORD's, and I will offer it up for a burnt offering.

11:32    於是耶弗他往亞捫人那裡去，與他們爭戰。耶和華將他們交在他手中，
So Jephthah passed over unto the children of Ammon to fight against them; and the LORD delivered them into his hands.

11:33    他就大大殺敗他們，從亞羅珥到米匿，直到亞備勒基拉明，攻取了二十座城。這樣亞捫人就被以色列人制伏了。
And he smote them from Aroer, even till thou come to Minnith, even twenty cities, and unto the plain of the vineyards, with a very great slaughter. Thus the children of Ammon were subdued before the children of Israel.

11:34    耶弗他回米斯巴到了自己的家，不料，他女兒拿著鼓跳舞出來迎接他，是他獨生的，此外無兒無女。
And Jephthah came to Mizpeh unto his house, and, behold, his daughter came out to meet him with timbrels and with dances: and she was his only child; beside her he had neither son nor daughter.

11:35    耶弗他看見她，就撕裂衣服，說，哀哉。我的女兒阿，你使我甚是愁苦，叫我作難了。因為我已經向耶和華開口許願，不能挽回。
And it came to pass, when he saw her, that he rent his clothes, and said, Alas, my daughter! thou hast brought me very low, and thou art one of them that trouble me: for I have opened my mouth unto the LORD, and I cannot go back.

11:36    他女兒回答說，父阿，你既向耶和華開口，就當照你口中所說的向我行，因耶和華已經在仇敵亞捫人身上為你報仇。
And she said unto him, My father, if thou hast opened thy mouth unto the LORD, do to me according to that which hath proceeded out of thy mouth; forasmuch as the LORD hath taken vengeance for thee of thine enemies, even of the children of Ammon.

11:37    又對父親說，有一件事求你允准，容我去兩個月，與同伴在山上，好哀哭我終為處女。
And she said unto her father, Let this thing be done for me: let me alone two months, that I may go up and down upon the mountains, and bewail my virginity, I and my fellows.

11:38    耶弗他說，你去吧。就容她去兩個月。她便和同伴去了，在山上為她終為處女哀哭。
And he said, Go. And he sent her away for two months: and she went with her companions, and bewailed her virginity upon the mountains.

11:39    兩月已滿，她回到父親那裡，父親就照所許的願向她行了。女兒終身沒有親近男子。
And it came to pass at the end of two months, that she returned unto her father, who did with her according to his vow which he had vowed: and she knew no man. And it was a custom in Israel,

11:40    此後以色列中有個規矩，每年以色列的女子去為基列人耶弗他的女兒哀哭四天。
That the daughters of Israel went yearly to lament the daughter of Jephthah the Gileadite four days in a year.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


12:1    以法蓮人聚集，到了北方，對耶弗他說，你去與亞捫人爭戰，為什麼沒有招我們同去呢。我們必用火燒你和你的房屋。
And the men of Ephraim gathered themselves together, and went northward, and said unto Jephthah, Wherefore passedst thou over to fight against the children of Ammon, and didst not call us to go with thee? we will burn thine house upon thee with fire.

12:2    耶弗他對他們說，我和我的民與亞捫人大大爭戰。我招你們來，你們竟沒有來救我脫離他們的手。
And Jephthah said unto them, I and my people were at great strife with the children of Ammon; and when I called you, ye delivered me not out of their hands.

12:3    我見你們不來救我，我就拚命前去攻擊亞捫人，耶和華將他們交在我手中。你們今日為什麼上我這裡來攻打我呢。
And when I saw that ye delivered me not, I put my life in my hands, and passed over against the children of Ammon, and the LORD delivered them into my hand: wherefore then are ye come up unto me this day, to fight against me?

12:4    於是耶弗他招聚基列人，與以法蓮人爭戰。基列人擊殺以法蓮人，是因他們說，你們基列人在以法蓮，瑪拿西中間，不過是以法蓮逃亡的人。
Then Jephthah gathered together all the men of Gilead, and fought with Ephraim: and the men of Gilead smote Ephraim, because they said, Ye Gileadites are fugitives of Ephraim among the Ephraimites, and among the Manassites.

12:5    基列人把守約旦河的渡口，不容以法蓮人過去。以法蓮逃走的人若說，容我過去。基列人就問他說，你是以法蓮人不是。他若說，不是，
And the Gileadites took the passages of Jordan before the Ephraimites: and it was so, that when those Ephraimites which were escaped said, Let me go over; that the men of Gilead said unto him, Art thou an Ephraimite? If he said, Nay;

12:6    就對他說，你說示播列。。以法蓮人因為咬不真字音，便說西播列。基列人就將他拿住，殺在約旦河的渡口。那時以法蓮人被殺的有四萬二千人。
Then said they unto him, Say now Shibboleth: and he said Sibboleth: for he could not frame to pronounce it right. Then they took him, and slew him at the passages of Jordan: and there fell at that time of the Ephraimites forty and two thousand.

12:7    耶弗他作以色列的士師六年。基列人耶弗他死了，葬在基列的一座城裡。
And Jephthah judged Israel six years. Then died Jephthah the Gileadite, and was buried in one of the cities of Gilead.

12:8    耶弗他以後，有伯利恆人以比贊作以色列的士師。
And after him Ibzan of Bethlehem judged Israel.

12:9    他有三十個兒子，三十個女兒。女兒都嫁出去了。他給眾子從外鄉娶了三十個媳婦。他作以色列的士師七年。
And he had thirty sons, and thirty daughters, whom he sent abroad, and took in thirty daughters from abroad for his sons. And he judged Israel seven years.

12:10    以比贊死了，葬在伯利恆。
Then died Ibzan, and was buried at Bethlehem.

12:11    以比贊之後，有西布倫人以倫，作以色列的士師十年。
And after him Elon, a Zebulonite, judged Israel; and he judged Israel ten years.

12:12    西布倫人以倫死了，葬在西布倫地的亞雅侖。
And Elon the Zebulonite died, and was buried in Aijalon in the country of Zebulun.

12:13    以倫之後，有比拉頓人希列的兒子押頓作以色列的士師。
And after him Abdon the son of Hillel, a Pirathonite, judged Israel.

12:14    他有四十個兒子，三十個孫子，騎著七十匹驢駒。押頓作以色列的士師八年。
And he had forty sons and thirty nephews, that rode on threescore and ten ass colts: and he judged Israel eight years.

12:15    比拉頓人希列的兒子押頓死了，葬在以法蓮地的比拉頓，在亞瑪力人的山地。
And Abdon the son of Hillel the Pirathonite died, and was buried in Pirathon in the land of Ephraim, in the mount of the Amalekites.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


13:1    以色列人又行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，耶和華將他們交在非利士人手中四十年。
And the children of Israel did evil again in the sight of the LORD; and the LORD delivered them into the hand of the Philistines forty years.

13:2    那時，有一個瑣拉人，是屬但族的，名叫瑪挪亞。他的妻不懷孕，不生育。
And there was a certain man of Zorah, of the family of the Danites, whose name was Manoah; and his wife was barren, and bare not.

13:3    耶和華的使者向那婦人顯現，對她說，向來你不懷孕，不生育，如今你必懷孕生一個兒子。
And the angel of the LORD appeared unto the woman, and said unto her, Behold now, thou art barren, and bearest not: but thou shalt conceive, and bear a son.

13:4    所以你當謹慎，清酒濃酒都不可喝，一切不潔之物也不可吃。
Now therefore beware, I pray thee, and drink not wine nor strong drink, and eat not any unclean thing:

13:5    你必懷孕生一個兒子，不可用剃頭刀剃他的頭，因為這孩子一出胎就歸神作拿細耳人。他必起首拯救以色列人脫離非利士人的手。
For, lo, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and no razor shall come on his head: for the child shall be a Nazarite unto God from the womb: and he shall begin to deliver Israel out of the hand of the Philistines.

13:6    婦人就回去對丈夫說，有一個神人到我面前來，他的相貌如神使者的相貌，甚是可畏。我沒有問他從哪裡來，他也沒有將他的名告訴我，
Then the woman came and told her husband, saying, A man of God came unto me, and his countenance was like the countenance of an angel of God, very terrible: but I asked him not whence he was, neither told he me his name:

13:7    卻對我說，你要懷孕生一個兒子，所以清酒濃酒都不可喝，一切不潔之物也不可吃。因為這孩子從出胎一直到死，必歸神作拿細耳人。
But he said unto me, Behold, thou shalt conceive, and bear a son; and now drink no wine nor strong drink, neither eat any unclean thing: for the child shall be a Nazarite to God from the womb to the day of his death.

13:8    瑪挪亞就祈求耶和華說，主阿，求你再差遣那神人到我們這裡來，好指教我們怎樣待這將要生的孩子。
Then Manoah intreated the LORD, and said, O my Lord, let the man of God which thou didst send come again unto us, and teach us what we shall do unto the child that shall be born.

13:9    神應允瑪挪亞的話。婦人正坐在田間的時候，神的使者又到她那裡，她丈夫瑪挪亞卻沒有同她在一處。
And God hearkened to the voice of Manoah; and the angel of God came again unto the woman as she sat in the field: but Manoah her husband was not with her.

13:10    婦人急忙跑去告訴丈夫說，那日到我面前來的人，又向我顯現。
And the woman made haste, and ran, and shewed her husband, and said unto him, Behold, the man hath appeared unto me, that came unto me the other day.

13:11    瑪挪亞起來跟隨他的妻來到那人面前，對他說，與這婦人說話的就是你嗎。他說，是我。
And Manoah arose, and went after his wife, and came to the man, and said unto him, Art thou the man that spakest unto the woman? And he said, I am.

13:12    瑪挪亞說，願你的話應驗。我們當怎樣待這孩子，他後來當怎樣呢。
And Manoah said, Now let thy words come to pass. How shall we order the child, and how shall we do unto him?

13:13    耶和華的使者對瑪挪亞說，我告訴婦人的一切事，她都當謹慎。
And the angel of the LORD said unto Manoah, Of all that I said unto the woman let her beware.

13:14    葡萄樹所結的都不可吃，清酒濃酒都不可喝，一切不潔之物也不可吃。凡我所吩咐的，她都當遵守。
She may not eat of any thing that cometh of the vine, neither let her drink wine or strong drink, nor eat any unclean thing: all that I commanded her let her observe.

13:15    瑪挪亞對耶和華的使者說，求你容我們款留你，好為你預備一隻山羊羔。
And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, I pray thee, let us detain thee, until we shall have made ready a kid for thee.

13:16    耶和華的使者對瑪挪亞說，你雖然款留我，我卻不吃你的食物，你若預備燔祭就當獻與耶和華。原來瑪挪亞不知道他是耶和華的使者。
And the angel of the LORD said unto Manoah, Though thou detain me, I will not eat of thy bread: and if thou wilt offer a burnt offering, thou must offer it unto the LORD. For Manoah knew not that he was an angel of the LORD.

13:17    瑪挪亞對耶和華的使者說，請將你的名告訴我，到你話應驗的時候，我們好尊敬你。
And Manoah said unto the angel of the LORD, What is thy name, that when thy sayings come to pass we may do thee honour?

13:18    耶和華的使者對他說，你何必問我的名，我名是奇妙的。
And the angel of the LORD said unto him, Why askest thou thus after my name, seeing it is secret?

13:19    瑪挪亞將一隻山羊羔和素祭在磐石上獻與耶和華，使者行奇妙的事。瑪挪亞和他的妻觀看，
So Manoah took a kid with a meat offering, and offered it upon a rock unto the LORD: and the angel did wonderously; and Manoah and his wife looked on.

13:20    見火焰從壇上往上升，耶和華的使者在壇上的火焰中也升上去了。瑪挪亞和他的妻看見，就俯伏於地。
For it came to pass, when the flame went up toward heaven from off the altar, that the angel of the LORD ascended in the flame of the altar. And Manoah and his wife looked on it, and fell on their faces to the ground.

13:21    耶和華的使者不再向瑪挪亞和他的妻顯現，瑪挪亞才知道他是耶和華的使者。
But the angel of the LORD did no more appear to Manoah and to his wife. Then Manoah knew that he was an angel of the LORD.

13:22    瑪挪亞對他的妻說，我們必要死，因為看見了神。
And Manoah said unto his wife, We shall surely die, because we have seen God.

13:23    他的妻卻對他說，耶和華若要殺我們，必不從我們手裡收納燔祭和素祭，並不將這一切事指示我們，今日也不將這些話告訴我們。
But his wife said unto him, If the LORD were pleased to kill us, he would not have received a burnt offering and a meat offering at our hands, neither would he have shewed us all these things, nor would as at this time have told us such things as these.

13:24    後來婦人生了一個兒子，給他起名叫參孫。孩子長大，耶和華賜福與他。
And the woman bare a son, and called his name Samson: and the child grew, and the LORD blessed him.

13:25    在瑪哈尼但，就是瑣拉和以實陶中間，耶和華的靈才感動他。
And the Spirit of the LORD began to move him at times in the camp of Dan between Zorah and Eshtaol.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


14:1    參孫下到亭拿，在那裡看見一個女子，是非利士人的女兒。
And Samson went down to Timnath, and saw a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines.

14:2    參孫上來稟告他父母說，我在亭拿看見一個女子，是非利士人的女兒，願你們給我娶來為妻。
And he came up, and told his father and his mother, and said, I have seen a woman in Timnath of the daughters of the Philistines: now therefore get her for me to wife.

14:3    他父母說，在你弟兄的女兒中，或在本國的民中，豈沒有一個女子，何至你去在未受割禮的非利士人中娶妻呢。參孫對他父親說，願你給我娶那女子，因我喜悅她。
Then his father and his mother said unto him, Is there never a woman among the daughters of thy brethren, or among all my people, that thou goest to take a wife of the uncircumcised Philistines? And Samson said unto his father, Get her for me; for she pleaseth me well.

14:4    他的父母卻不知道這事是出於耶和華，因為他找機會攻擊非利士人。那時，非利士人轄制以色列人。
But his father and his mother knew not that it was of the LORD, that he sought an occasion against the Philistines: for at that time the Philistines had dominion over Israel.

14:5    參孫跟他父母下亭拿去，到了亭拿的葡萄園，見有一隻少壯獅子向他吼叫。
Then went Samson down, and his father and his mother, to Timnath, and came to the vineyards of Timnath: and, behold, a young lion roared against him.

14:6    耶和華的靈大大感動參孫，他雖然手無器械，卻將獅子撕裂，如同撕裂山羊羔一樣。他行這事並沒有告訴父母。
And the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and he rent him as he would have rent a kid, and he had nothing in his hand: but he told not his father or his mother what he had done.

14:7    參孫下去與女子說話，就喜悅她。
And he went down, and talked with the woman; and she pleased Samson well.

14:8    過了些日子，再下去要娶那女子，轉向道旁要看死獅，見有一群蜂子和蜜在死獅之內，
And after a time he returned to take her, and he turned aside to see the carcase of the lion: and, behold, there was a swarm of bees and honey in the carcase of the lion.

14:9    就用手取蜜，且吃且走。到了父母那裡，給他父母，他們也吃了。只是沒有告訴這蜜是從死獅之內取來的。
And he took thereof in his hands, and went on eating, and came to his father and mother, and he gave them, and they did eat: but he told not them that he had taken the honey out of the carcase of the lion.

14:10    他父親下去見女子。參孫在那裡設擺筵宴，因為向來少年人都有這個規矩。
So his father went down unto the woman: and Samson made there a feast; for so used the young men to do.

14:11    眾人看見參孫，就請了三十個人陪伴他。
And it came to pass, when they saw him, that they brought thirty companions to be with him.

14:12    參孫對他們說，我給你們出一個謎語，你們在七日筵宴之內，若能猜出意思告訴我，我就給你們三十件裡衣，三十套衣裳。
And Samson said unto them, I will now put forth a riddle unto you: if ye can certainly declare it me within the seven days of the feast, and find it out, then I will give you thirty sheets and thirty change of garments:

14:13    你們若不能猜出意思告訴我，你們就給我三十件裡衣，三十套衣裳。他們說，請將謎語說給我們聽。
But if ye cannot declare it me, then shall ye give me thirty sheets and thirty change of garments. And they said unto him, Put forth thy riddle, that we may hear it.

14:14    參孫對他們說，吃的從吃者出來。甜的從強者出來。他們三日不能猜出謎語的意思。
And he said unto them, Out of the eater came forth meat, and out of the strong came forth sweetness. And they could not in three days expound the riddle.

14:15    到第七天，他們對參孫的妻說，你誆哄你丈夫，探出謎語的意思告訴我們，免得我們用火燒你和你父家。你們請了我們來，是要奪我們所有的嗎。
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that they said unto Samson's wife, Entice thy husband, that he may declare unto us the riddle, lest we burn thee and thy father's house with fire: have ye called us to take that we have? is it not so?

14:16    參孫的妻在丈夫面前啼哭說，你是恨我，不是愛我，你給我本國的人出謎語，卻沒有將意思告訴我。參孫回答說，連我父母我都沒有告訴，豈可告訴你呢。
And Samson's wife wept before him, and said, Thou dost but hate me, and lovest me not: thou hast put forth a riddle unto the children of my people, and hast not told it me. And he said unto her, Behold, I have not told it my father nor my mother, and shall I tell it thee?

14:17    七日筵宴之內，她在丈夫面前啼哭，到第七天逼著他，他才將謎語的意思告訴他妻，他妻就告訴本國的人。
And she wept before him the seven days, while their feast lasted: and it came to pass on the seventh day, that he told her, because she lay sore upon him: and she told the riddle to the children of her people.

14:18    到第七天，日頭未落以前，那城裡的人對參孫說，有什麼比蜜還甜呢。有什麼比獅子還強呢。參孫對他們說，你們若非用我的母牛犢耕地，就猜不出我謎語的意思來。
And the men of the city said unto him on the seventh day before the sun went down, What is sweeter than honey? And what is stronger than a lion? And he said unto them, If ye had not plowed with my heifer, ye had not found out my riddle.

14:19    耶和華的靈大大感動參孫，他就下到亞實基倫，擊殺了三十個人，奪了他們的衣裳，將衣裳給了猜出謎語的人。參孫發怒，就上父家去了。
And the Spirit of the LORD came upon him, and he went down to Ashkelon, and slew thirty men of them, and took their spoil, and gave change of garments unto them which expounded the riddle. And his anger was kindled, and he went up to his father's house.

14:20    參孫的妻便歸了參孫的陪伴，就是作過他朋友的。
But Samson's wife was given to his companion, whom he had used as his friend.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


15:1    過了些日子，到割麥子的時候，參孫帶著一隻山羊羔去看他的妻，說，我要進內室見我的妻。他岳父不容他進去，
But it came to pass within a while after, in the time of wheat harvest, that Samson visited his wife with a kid; and he said, I will go in to my wife into the chamber. But her father would not suffer him to go in.

15:2    說，我估定你是極其恨她，因此我將她給了你的陪伴。她的妹子不是比她還美麗嗎。你可以娶來代替她吧。
And her father said, I verily thought that thou hadst utterly hated her; therefore I gave her to thy companion: is not her younger sister fairer than she? take her, I pray thee, instead of her.

15:3    參孫說，這回我加害於非利士人不算有罪。
And Samson said concerning them, Now shall I be more blameless than the Philistines, though I do them a displeasure.

15:4    於是參孫去捉了三百隻狐狸（或作野狗），將狐狸尾巴一對一對地捆上，將火把捆在兩條尾巴中間，
And Samson went and caught three hundred foxes, and took firebrands, and turned tail to tail, and put a firebrand in the midst between two tails.

15:5    點著火把，就放狐狸進入非利士人站著的禾稼，將堆集的禾捆和未割的禾稼，並橄欖園盡都燒了。
And when he had set the brands on fire, he let them go into the standing corn of the Philistines, and burnt up both the shocks, and also the standing corn, with the vineyards and olives.

15:6    非利士人說，這事是誰作的呢。有人說，是亭拿人的女婿參孫，因為他岳父將他的妻給了他的陪伴。於是非利士人上去，用火燒了婦人和她的父親。
Then the Philistines said, Who hath done this? And they answered, Samson, the son in law of the Timnite, because he had taken his wife, and given her to his companion. And the Philistines came up, and burnt her and her father with fire.

15:7    參孫對非利士人說，你們既然這樣行，我必向你們報仇才肯吧休。
And Samson said unto them, Though ye have done this, yet will I be avenged of you, and after that I will cease.

15:8    參孫就大大擊殺他們，連腿帶腰都砍斷了。他便下去，住在以坦磐的穴內。
And he smote them hip and thigh with a great slaughter: and he went down and dwelt in the top of the rock Etam.

15:9    非利士人上去安營在猶大，佈散在利希。
Then the Philistines went up, and pitched in Judah, and spread themselves in Lehi.

15:10    猶大人說，你們為何上來攻擊我們呢。他們說，我們上來是要捆綁參孫。他向我們怎樣行，我們也要向他怎樣行。
And the men of Judah said, Why are ye come up against us? And they answered, To bind Samson are we come up, to do to him as he hath done to us.

15:11    於是有三千猶大人下到以坦磐的穴內，對參孫說，非利士人轄制我們，你不知道嗎。你向我們行的是什麼事呢。他回答說，他們向我怎樣行，我也要向他們怎樣行。
Then three thousand men of Judah went to the top of the rock Etam, and said to Samson, Knowest thou not that the Philistines are rulers over us? what is this that thou hast done unto us? And he said unto them, As they did unto me, so have I done unto them.

15:12    猶大人對他說，我們下來是要捆綁你，將你交在非利士人手中。參孫說，你們要向我起誓，應承你們自己不害死我。
And they said unto him, We are come down to bind thee, that we may deliver thee into the hand of the Philistines. And Samson said unto them, Swear unto me, that ye will not fall upon me yourselves.

15:13    他們說，我們斷不殺你，只要將你捆綁交在非利士人手中。於是用兩條新繩捆綁參孫，將他從以坦磐帶上去。
And they spake unto him, saying, No; but we will bind thee fast, and deliver thee into their hand: but surely we will not kill thee. And they bound him with two new cords, and brought him up from the rock.

15:14    參孫到了利希，非利士人都迎著喧囔。耶和華的靈大大感動參孫，他臂上的繩就像火燒的麻一樣，他的綁繩都從他手上脫落下來。
And when he came unto Lehi, the Philistines shouted against him: and the Spirit of the LORD came mightily upon him, and the cords that were upon his arms became as flax that was burnt with fire, and his bands loosed from off his hands.

15:15    他見一塊未乾的驢腮骨，就伸手拾起來，用以擊殺一千人。
And he found a new jawbone of an ass, and put forth his hand, and took it, and slew a thousand men therewith.

15:16    參孫說，我用驢腮骨殺人成堆，用驢腮骨殺了一千人。
And Samson said, With the jawbone of an ass, heaps upon heaps, with the jaw of an ass have I slain a thousand men.

15:17    說完這話，就把那腮骨從手裡丟擲去了。那地便叫拉末利希。
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking, that he cast away the jawbone out of his hand, and called that place Ramathlehi.

15:18    參孫甚覺口渴，就求告耶和華說，你既藉僕人的手施行這嗎大的拯救，豈可任我渴死，落在未受割禮的人手中呢。
And he was sore athirst, and called on the LORD, and said, Thou hast given this great deliverance into the hand of thy servant: and now shall I die for thirst, and fall into the hand of the uncircumcised?

15:19    神就使利希的窪處裂開，有水從其中湧出來。參孫喝了精神復原。因此那泉名叫隱哈歌利，那泉直到今日還在利希。
But God clave an hollow place that was in the jaw, and there came water thereout; and when he had drunk, his spirit came again, and he revived: wherefore he called the name thereof Enhakkore, which is in Lehi unto this day.

15:20    當非利士人轄制以色列人的時候，參孫作以色列的士師二十年。
And he judged Israel in the days of the Philistines twenty years.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


16:1    參孫到了迦薩，在那裡看見一個妓女，就與她親近。
Then went Samson to Gaza, and saw there an harlot, and went in unto her.

16:2    有人告訴迦薩人說，參孫到這裡來了。他們就把他團團圍住，終夜在城門悄悄埋伏，說，等到天亮我們便殺他。
And it was told the Gazites, saying, Samson is come hither. And they compassed him in, and laid wait for him all night in the gate of the city, and were quiet all the night, saying, In the morning, when it is day, we shall kill him.

16:3    參孫睡到半夜，起來，將城門的門扇，門框，門閂，一齊拆下來，扛在肩上，扛到希伯侖前的山頂上。
And Samson lay till midnight, and arose at midnight, and took the doors of the gate of the city, and the two posts, and went away with them, bar and all, and put them upon his shoulders, and carried them up to the top of an hill that is before Hebron.

16:4    後來參孫在梭烈谷喜愛一個婦人，名叫大利拉。
And it came to pass afterward, that he loved a woman in the valley of Sorek, whose name was Delilah.

16:5    非利士人的首領上去見那婦人，對她說，求你誆哄參孫，探探他因何有這嗎大的力氣，我們用何法能勝他，捆綁剋制他。我們就每人給你一千一百舍客勒銀子。
And the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and said unto her, Entice him, and see wherein his great strength lieth, and by what means we may prevail against him, that we may bind him to afflict him: and we will give thee every one of us eleven hundred pieces of silver.

16:6    大利拉對參孫說，求你告訴我，你因何有這嗎大的力氣，當用何法捆綁剋制你。
And Delilah said to Samson, Tell me, I pray thee, wherein thy great strength lieth, and wherewith thou mightest be bound to afflict thee.

16:7    參孫回答說，人若用七條未乾的青繩子捆綁我，我就軟弱像別人一樣。
And Samson said unto her, If they bind me with seven green withs that were never dried, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.

16:8    於是非利士人的首領拿了七條未乾的青繩子來，交給婦人，她就用繩子捆綁參孫。
Then the lords of the Philistines brought up to her seven green withs which had not been dried, and she bound him with them.

16:9    有人預先埋伏在婦人的內室裡。婦人說，參孫哪。非利士人拿你來了。參孫就掙斷繩子，如掙斷經火的麻線一般。這樣，他力氣的根由人還是不知道。
Now there were men lying in wait, abiding with her in the chamber. And she said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he brake the withs, as a thread of tow is broken when it toucheth the fire. So his strength was not known.

16:10    大利拉對參孫說，你欺哄我，向我說謊言。現在求你告訴我當用何法捆綁你。
And Delilah said unto Samson, Behold, thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: now tell me, I pray thee, wherewith thou mightest be bound.

16:11    參孫回答說，人若用沒有使過的新繩捆綁我，我就軟弱像別人一樣。
And he said unto her, If they bind me fast with new ropes that never were occupied, then shall I be weak, and be as another man.

16:12    大利拉就用新繩捆綁他。對他說，參孫哪。非利士人拿你來了。有人預先埋伏在內室裡。參孫將臂上的繩掙斷了，如掙斷一條線一樣。
Delilah therefore took new ropes, and bound him therewith, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And there were liers in wait abiding in the chamber. And he brake them from off his arms like a thread.

16:13    大利拉對參孫說，你到如今還是欺哄我，向我說謊言。求你告訴我，當用何法捆綁你。參孫回答說，你若將我頭上的七條發綹，與緯線同織就可以了。
And Delilah said unto Samson, Hitherto thou hast mocked me, and told me lies: tell me wherewith thou mightest be bound. And he said unto her, If thou weavest the seven locks of my head with the web.

16:14    於是大利拉將他的發綹與緯線同織，用橛子釘住，對他說，參孫哪。非利士人拿你來了。參孫從睡中醒來，將機上的橛子和緯線一齊都拔出來了。
And she fastened it with the pin, and said unto him, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awaked out of his sleep, and went away with the pin of the beam, and with the web.

16:15    大利拉對參孫說，你既不與我同心，怎嗎說你愛我呢。你這三次欺哄我，沒有告訴我，你因何有這嗎大的力氣。
And she said unto him, How canst thou say, I love thee, when thine heart is not with me? thou hast mocked me these three times, and hast not told me wherein thy great strength lieth.

16:16    大利拉天天用話催逼他，甚至他心裡煩悶要死。
And it came to pass, when she pressed him daily with her words, and urged him, so that his soul was vexed unto death;

16:17    參孫就把心中所藏的都告訴了她，對她說，向來人沒有用剃頭刀剃我的頭，因為我自出母胎就歸神作拿細耳人。若剃了我的頭髮，我的力氣就離開我，我便軟弱像別人一樣。
That he told her all his heart, and said unto her, There hath not come a razor upon mine head; for I have been a Nazarite unto God from my mother's womb: if I be shaven, then my strength will go from me, and I shall become weak, and be like any other man.

16:18    大利拉見他把心中所藏的都告訴了她，就打發人到非利士人的首領那裡，對他們說，他已經把心中所藏的都告訴了我，請你們再上來一次。於是非利士人的首領手裡拿著銀子，上到婦人那裡。
And when Delilah saw that he had told her all his heart, she sent and called for the lords of the Philistines, saying, Come up this once, for he hath shewed me all his heart. Then the lords of the Philistines came up unto her, and brought money in their hand.

16:19    大利拉使參孫枕著她的膝睡覺，叫了一個人來剃除他頭上的七條發綹。於是大利拉剋制他，他的力氣就離開他了。
And she made him sleep upon her knees; and she called for a man, and she caused him to shave off the seven locks of his head; and she began to afflict him, and his strength went from him.

16:20    大利拉說，參孫哪。非利士人拿你來了。參孫從睡中醒來，心裡說，我要像前幾次出去活動身體。他卻不知道耶和華已經離開他了。
And she said, The Philistines be upon thee, Samson. And he awoke out of his sleep, and said, I will go out as at other times before, and shake myself. And he wist not that the LORD was departed from him.

16:21    非利士人將他拿住，剜了他的眼睛，帶他下到迦薩，用銅鏈拘索他。他就在監裡推磨。
But the Philistines took him, and put out his eyes, and brought him down to Gaza, and bound him with fetters of brass; and he did grind in the prison house.

16:22    然而他的頭髮被剃之後，又漸漸長起來了。
Howbeit the hair of his head began to grow again after he was shaven.

16:23    非利士人的首領聚集，要給他們的神大袞獻大祭，並且歡樂，因為他們說，我們的神將我們的仇敵參孫交在我們手中了。
Then the lords of the Philistines gathered them together for to offer a great sacrifice unto Dagon their god, and to rejoice: for they said, Our god hath delivered Samson our enemy into our hand.

16:24    眾人看見參孫，就讚美他們的神說，我們的神將毀壞我們地，殺害我們許多人的仇敵交在我們手中了。
And when the people saw him, they praised their god: for they said, Our god hath delivered into our hands our enemy, and the destroyer of our country, which slew many of us.

16:25    他們正宴樂的時候，就說，叫參孫來，在我們面前戲耍戲耍。於是將參孫從監裡提出來，他就在眾人面前戲耍。他們使他站在兩柱中間。
And it came to pass, when their hearts were merry, that they said, Call for Samson, that he may make us sport. And they called for Samson out of the prison house; and he made them sport: and they set him between the pillars.

16:26    參孫向拉他手的童子說，求你讓我摸著託房的柱子，我要靠一靠。
And Samson said unto the lad that held him by the hand, Suffer me that I may feel the pillars whereupon the house standeth, that I may lean upon them.

16:27    那時房內充滿男女，非利士人的眾首領也都在那裡。房的平頂上約有三千男女，觀看參孫戲耍。
Now the house was full of men and women; and all the lords of the Philistines were there; and there were upon the roof about three thousand men and women, that beheld while Samson made sport.

16:28    參孫求告耶和華說，主耶和華阿，求你眷念我。神阿，求你賜我這一次的力量，使我在非利士人身上報那剜我雙眼的仇。
And Samson called unto the LORD, and said, O Lord God, remember me, I pray thee, and strengthen me, I pray thee, only this once, O God, that I may be at once avenged of the Philistines for my two eyes.

16:29    參孫就抱住託房的那兩根柱子，左手抱一根，右手抱一根，
And Samson took hold of the two middle pillars upon which the house stood, and on which it was borne up, of the one with his right hand, and of the other with his left.

16:30    說，我情願與非利士人同死。就盡力屈身，房子倒塌，壓住首領和房內的眾人。這樣，參孫死時所殺的人，比活著所殺的還多。
And Samson said, Let me die with the Philistines. And he bowed himself with all his might; and the house fell upon the lords, and upon all the people that were therein. So the dead which he slew at his death were more than they which he slew in his life.

16:31    參孫的弟兄和他父的全家，都下去取他的屍首，抬上來葬在瑣拉和以實陶中間，在他父瑪挪亞的墳墓裡。參孫作以色列的士師二十年。
Then his brethren and all the house of his father came down, and took him, and brought him up, and buried him between Zorah and Eshtaol in the buryingplace of Manoah his father. And he judged Israel twenty years.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


17:1    以法蓮山地有一個人名叫米迦。
And there was a man of mount Ephraim, whose name was Micah.

17:2    他對母親說，你那一千一百舍客勒銀子被人拿去，你因此咒詛，並且告訴了我。看哪。這銀子在我這裡，是我拿去了。他母親說，我兒阿，願耶和華賜福與你。
And he said unto his mother, The eleven hundred shekels of silver that were taken from thee, about which thou cursedst, and spakest of also in mine ears, behold, the silver is with me; I took it. And his mother said, Blessed be thou of the LORD, my son.

17:3    米迦就把這一千一百舍客勒銀子還他母親。他母親說，我分出這銀子來為你獻給耶和華，好雕刻一個像，鑄成一個像。現在我還是交給你。
And when he had restored the eleven hundred shekels of silver to his mother, his mother said, I had wholly dedicated the silver unto the LORD from my hand for my son, to make a graven image and a molten image: now therefore I will restore it unto thee.

17:4    米迦將銀子還他母親，他母親將二百舍客勒銀子交給銀匠，雕刻一個像，鑄成一個像，安置在米迦的屋內。
Yet he restored the money unto his mother; and his mother took two hundred shekels of silver, and gave them to the founder, who made thereof a graven image and a molten image: and they were in the house of Micah.

17:5    這米迦有了神堂，又製造以弗得和家中的神像，分派他一個兒子作祭司。
And the man Micah had an house of gods, and made an ephod, and teraphim, and consecrated one of his sons, who became his priest.

17:6    那時以色列中沒有王，各人任意而行。
In those days there was no king in Israel, but every man did that which was right in his own eyes.

17:7    猶大的伯利恆有一個少年人，是猶大族的利未人，他在那裡寄居。
And there was a young man out of Bethlehemjudah of the family of Judah, who was a Levite, and he sojourned there.

17:8    這人離開猶大的伯利恆城，要找一個可住的地方。行路的時候，到了以法蓮山地，走到米迦的家。
And the man departed out of the city from Bethlehemjudah to sojourn where he could find a place: and he came to mount Ephraim to the house of Micah, as he journeyed.

17:9    米迦問他說，你從哪裡來。他回答說，從猶大的伯利恆來。我是利未人，要找一個可住的地方。
And Micah said unto him, Whence comest thou? And he said unto him, I am a Levite of Bethlehemjudah, and I go to sojourn where I may find a place.

17:10    米迦說，你可以住在我這裡，我以你為父，為祭司。我每年給你十舍客勒銀子，一套衣服和度日的食物。利未人就進了他的家。
And Micah said unto him, Dwell with me, and be unto me a father and a priest, and I will give thee ten shekels of silver by the year, and a suit of apparel, and thy victuals. So the Levite went in.

17:11    利未人情願與那人同住。那人看這少年人如自己的兒子一樣。
And the Levite was content to dwell with the man; and the young man was unto him as one of his sons.

17:12    米迦分派這少年的利未人作祭司，他就住在米迦的家裡。
And Micah consecrated the Levite; and the young man became his priest, and was in the house of Micah.

17:13    米迦說，現在我知道耶和華必賜福與我，因我有一個利未人作祭司。
Then said Micah, Now know I that the LORD will do me good, seeing I have a Levite to my priest.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


18:1    那時，以色列中沒有王。但支派的人仍是尋地居住。因為到那日子，他們還沒有在以色列支派中得地為業。
In those days there was no king in Israel: and in those days the tribe of the Danites sought them an inheritance to dwell in; for unto that day all their inheritance had not fallen unto them among the tribes of Israel.

18:2    但人從瑣拉和以實陶打發本族中的五個勇士，去仔細窺探那地，吩咐他們說，你們去窺探那地。他們來到以法蓮山地，進了米迦的住宅，就在那裡住宿。
And the children of Dan sent of their family five men from their coasts, men of valour, from Zorah, and from Eshtaol, to spy out the land, and to search it; and they said unto them, Go, search the land: who when they came to mount Ephraim, to the house of Micah, they lodged there.

18:3    他們臨近米迦的住宅，聽出那少年利未人的口音來，就進去問他說，誰領你到這裡來。你在這裡作什麼。你在這裡得什麼。
When they were by the house of Micah, they knew the voice of the young man the Levite: and they turned in thither, and said unto him, Who brought thee hither? and what makest thou in this place? and what hast thou here?

18:4    他回答說，米迦待我如此如此，請我作祭司。
And he said unto them, Thus and thus dealeth Micah with me, and hath hired me, and I am his priest.

18:5    他們對他說，請你求問神，使我們知道所行的道路通達不通達。
And they said unto him, Ask counsel, we pray thee, of God, that we may know whether our way which we go shall be prosperous.

18:6    祭司對他們說，你們可以平平安安地去，你們所行的道路是在耶和華面前的。
And the priest said unto them, Go in peace: before the LORD is your way wherein ye go.

18:7    五人就走了，來到拉億，見那裡的民安居無慮，如同西頓人安居一樣。在那地沒有人掌權擾亂他們。他們離西頓人也遠，與別人沒有來往。
Then the five men departed, and came to Laish, and saw the people that were therein, how they dwelt careless, after the manner of the Zidonians, quiet and secure; and there was no magistrate in the land, that might put them to shame in any thing; and they were far from the Zidonians, and had no business with any man.



18:8    五人回到瑣拉和以實陶，見他們的弟兄。弟兄問他們說，你們有什麼話。
And they came unto their brethren to Zorah and Eshtaol: and their brethren said unto them, What say ye?

18:9    他們回答說，起來，我們上去攻擊他們吧。我們已經窺探那地，見那地甚好。你們為何靜坐不動呢。要急速前往得那地為業，不可遲延。
And they said, Arise, that we may go up against them: for we have seen the land, and, behold, it is very good: and are ye still? be not slothful to go, and to enter to possess the land.

18:10    你們到了那裡，必看見安居無慮的民，地也寬闊。神已將那地交在你們手中。那地百物俱全，一無所缺。
When ye go, ye shall come unto a people secure, and to a large land: for God hath given it into your hands; a place where there is no want of any thing that is in the earth.

18:11    於是但族中的六百人，各帶兵器，從瑣拉和以實陶前往，
And there went from thence of the family of the Danites, out of Zorah and out of Eshtaol, six hundred men appointed with weapons of war.

18:12    上到猶大的基列耶琳，在基列耶琳後邊安營。因此那地方名叫瑪哈尼但，直到今日。
And they went up, and pitched in Kirjathjearim, in Judah: wherefore they called that place Mahanehdan unto this day: behold, it is behind Kirjathjearim.

18:13    他們從那裡往以法蓮山地去，來到米迦的住宅。
And they passed thence unto mount Ephraim, and came unto the house of Micah.

18:14    從前窺探拉億地的五個人對他們的弟兄說，這宅子裡有以弗得和家中的神像，並雕刻的像與鑄成的像，你們知道嗎。現在你們要想一想當怎樣行。
Then answered the five men that went to spy out the country of Laish, and said unto their brethren, Do ye know that there is in these houses an ephod, and teraphim, and a graven image, and a molten image? now therefore consider what ye have to do.

18:15    五人就進入米迦的住宅，到了那少年利未人的房內問他好。
And they turned thitherward, and came to the house of the young man the Levite, even unto the house of Micah, and saluted him.

18:16    那六百但人各帶兵器，站在門口。
And the six hundred men appointed with their weapons of war, which were of the children of Dan, stood by the entering of the gate.

18:17    窺探地的五個人走進去，將雕刻的像，以弗得，家中的神像，並鑄成的像，都拿了去。祭司和帶兵器的六百人，一同站在門口。
And the five men that went to spy out the land went up, and came in thither, and took the graven image, and the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image: and the priest stood in the entering of the gate with the six hundred men that were appointed with weapons of war.

18:18    那五個人進入米迦的住宅，拿出雕刻的像，以弗得，家中的神像，並鑄成的像，祭司就問他們說，你們作什麼呢。
And these went into Micah's house, and fetched the carved image, the ephod, and the teraphim, and the molten image. Then said the priest unto them, What do ye?

18:19    他們回答說，不要作聲，用手捂口，跟我們去吧。我們必以你為父，為祭司。你作一家的祭司好呢。還是作以色列一族一支派的祭司好呢。
And they said unto him, Hold thy peace, lay thine hand upon thy mouth, and go with us, and be to us a father and a priest: is it better for thee to be a priest unto the house of one man, or that thou be a priest unto a tribe and a family in Israel?

18:20    祭司心裡喜悅，便拿著以弗得和家中的神像，並雕刻的像，進入他們中間。
And the priest's heart was glad, and he took the ephod, and the teraphim, and the graven image, and went in the midst of the people.

18:21    他們就轉身離開那裡，妻子，兒女，牲畜，財物都在前頭。
So they turned and departed, and put the little ones and the cattle and the carriage before them.

18:22    離米迦的住宅已遠，米迦的近鄰都聚集來，追趕但人，
And when they were a good way from the house of Micah, the men that were in the houses near to Micah's house were gathered together, and overtook the children of Dan.

18:23    呼叫但人。但人回頭問米迦說，你聚集這許多人來作什麼呢。
And they cried unto the children of Dan. And they turned their faces, and said unto Micah, What aileth thee, that thou comest with such a company?

18:24    米迦說，你們將我所作的神像和祭司都帶了去，我還有所剩的嗎。怎嗎還問我說作什麼呢。
And he said, Ye have taken away my gods which I made, and the priest, and ye are gone away: and what have I more? and what is this that ye say unto me, What aileth thee?

18:25    但人對米迦說，你不要使我們聽見你的聲音，恐怕有性暴的人攻擊你，以致你和你的全家盡都喪命。
And the children of Dan said unto him, Let not thy voice be heard among us, lest angry fellows run upon thee, and thou lose thy life, with the lives of thy household.

18:26    但人還是走他們的路。米迦見他們的勢力比自己強盛，就轉身回家去了。
And the children of Dan went their way: and when Micah saw that they were too strong for him, he turned and went back unto his house.

18:27    但人將米迦所作的神像和他的祭司都帶到拉億，見安居無慮的民，就用刀殺了那民，又放火燒了那城，
And they took the things which Micah had made, and the priest which he had, and came unto Laish, unto a people that were at quiet and secure: and they smote them with the edge of the sword, and burnt the city with fire.

18:28    並無人搭救。因為離西頓遠，他們又與別人沒有來往。城在平原，那平原靠近伯利合。但人又在那裡修城居住，
And there was no deliverer, because it was far from Zidon, and they had no business with any man; and it was in the valley that lieth by Bethrehob. And they built a city, and dwelt therein.

18:29    照著他們始祖以色列之子但的名字，給那城起名叫但。原先那城名叫拉億。
And they called the name of the city Dan, after the name of Dan their father, who was born unto Israel: howbeit the name of the city was Laish at the first.

18:30    但人就為自己設立那雕刻的像。摩西的孫子，革舜的兒子約拿單，和他的子孫作但支派的祭司，直到那地遭擄掠的日子。
And the children of Dan set up the graven image: and Jonathan, the son of Gershom, the son of Manasseh, he and his sons were priests to the tribe of Dan until the day of the captivity of the land.

18:31    神的殿在示羅多少日子，但人為自己設立米迦所雕刻的像也在但多少日子。
And they set them up Micah's graven image, which he made, all the time that the house of God was in Shiloh.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


19:1    當以色列中沒有王的時候，有住以法蓮山地那邊的一個利未人，娶了一個猶大伯利恆的女子為妾。
And it came to pass in those days, when there was no king in Israel, that there was a certain Levite sojourning on the side of mount Ephraim, who took to him a concubine out of Bethlehemjudah.

19:2    妾行淫離開丈夫，回猶大的伯利恆，到了父家，在那裡住了四個月。
And his concubine played the whore against him, and went away from him unto her father's house to Bethlehemjudah, and was there four whole months.

19:3    她丈夫起來，帶著一個僕人，兩匹驢去見她，用好話勸她回來。女子就引丈夫進入父家。她父見了那人，便歡歡喜喜地迎接。
And her husband arose, and went after her, to speak friendly unto her, and to bring her again, having his servant with him, and a couple of asses: and she brought him into her father's house: and when the father of the damsel saw him, he rejoiced to meet him.

19:4    那人的岳父，就是女子的父親，將那人留下住了三天。於是二人一同吃喝，住宿。
And his father in law, the damsel's father, retained him; and he abode with him three days: so they did eat and drink, and lodged there.

19:5    到第四天，利未人清早起來要走，女子的父親對女婿說，請你吃點飯，加添心力，然後可以行路。
And it came to pass on the fourth day, when they arose early in the morning, that he rose up to depart: and the damsel's father said unto his son in law, Comfort thine heart with a morsel of bread, and afterward go your way.

19:6    於是二人坐下一同吃喝。女子的父親對那人說，請你再住一夜，暢快你的心。
And they sat down, and did eat and drink both of them together: for the damsel's father had said unto the man, Be content, I pray thee, and tarry all night, and let thine heart be merry.

19:7    那人起來要走，他岳父強留他，他又住了一宿。
And when the man rose up to depart, his father in law urged him: therefore he lodged there again.

19:8    到第五天，他清早起來要走，女子的父親說，請你吃點飯，加添心力，等到日頭偏西再走。於是二人一同吃飯。
And he arose early in the morning on the fifth day to depart: and the damsel's father said, Comfort thine heart, I pray thee. And they tarried until afternoon, and they did eat both of them.

19:9    那人同他的妾和僕人起來要走，他岳父，就是女子的父親，對他說，看哪，日頭偏西了，請你再住一夜。天快晚了，可以在這裡住宿，暢快你的心。明天早早起行回家去。
And when the man rose up to depart, he, and his concubine, and his servant, his father in law, the damsel's father, said unto him, Behold, now the day draweth toward evening, I pray you tarry all night: behold, the day groweth to an end, lodge here, that thine heart may be merry; and to morrow get you early on your way, that thou mayest go home.

19:10    那人不願再住一夜，就備上那兩匹驢，帶著妾起身走了，來到耶布斯的對面，耶布斯就是耶路撒冷。
But the man would not tarry that night, but he rose up and departed, and came over against Jebus, which is Jerusalem; and there were with him two asses saddled, his concubine also was with him.

19:11    臨近耶布斯的時候，日頭快要落了，僕人對主人說，我們不如進這耶布斯人的城裡住宿。
And when they were by Jebus, the day was far spent; and the servant said unto his master, Come, I pray thee, and let us turn in into this city of the Jebusites, and lodge in it.

19:12    主人回答說，我們不可進不是以色列人住的外邦城，不如過到基比亞去。
And his master said unto him, We will not turn aside hither into the city of a stranger, that is not of the children of Israel; we will pass over to Gibeah.

19:13    又對僕人說，我們可以到一個地方，或住在基比亞，或住在拉瑪。
And he said unto his servant, Come, and let us draw near to one of these places to lodge all night, in Gibeah, or in Ramah.

19:14    他們就往前走。將到便雅憫的基比亞，日頭已經落了。
And they passed on and went their way; and the sun went down upon them when they were by Gibeah, which belongeth to Benjamin.

19:15    他們進入基比亞要在那裡住宿，就坐在城裡的街上，因為無人接他們進家住宿。
And they turned aside thither, to go in and to lodge in Gibeah: and when he went in, he sat him down in a street of the city: for there was no man that took them into his house to lodging.

19:16    晚上，有一個老年人從田間作工回來。他原是以法蓮山地的人，住在基比亞。那地方的人卻是便雅憫人。
And, behold, there came an old man from his work out of the field at even, which was also of mount Ephraim; and he sojourned in Gibeah: but the men of the place were Benjamites.

19:17    老年人舉目看見客人坐在城裡的街上，就問他說，你從哪裡來。要往哪裡去。
And when he had lifted up his eyes, he saw a wayfaring man in the street of the city: and the old man said, Whither goest thou? and whence comest thou?

19:18    他回答說，我們從猶大的伯利恆來，要往以法蓮山地那邊去。我原是那裡的人，到過猶大的伯利恆，現在我往耶和華的殿去，在這裡無人接我進他的家。
And he said unto him, We are passing from Bethlehemjudah toward the side of mount Ephraim; from thence am I: and I went to Bethlehemjudah, but I am now going to the house of the LORD; and there is no man that receiveth me to house.

19:19    其實我有糧草可以餵驢，我與我的妾，並我的僕人，有餅有酒，並不缺少什麼。
Yet there is both straw and provender for our asses; and there is bread and wine also for me, and for thy handmaid, and for the young man which is with thy servants: there is no want of any thing.

19:20    老年人說，願你平安。你所需用的我都給你，只是不可在街上過夜。
And the old man said, Peace be with thee; howsoever let all thy wants lie upon me; only lodge not in the street.

19:21    於是領他們到家裡，喂上驢，他們就洗腳吃喝。
So he brought him into his house, and gave provender unto the asses: and they washed their feet, and did eat and drink.

19:22    他們心裡正歡暢的時候，城中的匪徒圍住房子，連連叩門，對房主老人說，你把那進你家的人帶出來，我們要與他交合。
Now as they were making their hearts merry, behold, the men of the city, certain sons of Belial, beset the house round about, and beat at the door, and spake to the master of the house, the old man, saying, Bring forth the man that came into thine house, that we may know him.

19:23    那房主出來對他們說，弟兄們哪，不要這樣作惡。這人既然進了我的家，你們就不要行這醜事。
And the man, the master of the house, went out unto them, and said unto them, Nay, my brethren, nay, I pray you, do not so wickedly; seeing that this man is come into mine house, do not this folly.

19:24    我有個女兒，還是處女，並有這人的妾，我將她們領出來任憑你們玷辱她們，只是向這人不可行這樣的醜事。
Behold, here is my daughter a maiden, and his concubine; them I will bring out now, and humble ye them, and do with them what seemeth good unto you: but unto this man do not so vile a thing.

19:25    那些人卻不聽從他的話。那人就把他的妾拉出去交給他們，他們便與她交合，終夜凌辱她，直到天色快亮才放她去。
But the men would not hearken to him: so the man took his concubine, and brought her forth unto them; and they knew her, and abused her all the night until the morning: and when the day began to spring, they let her go.

19:26    天快亮的時候，婦人回到她主人住宿的房門前，就仆倒在地，直到天亮。
Then came the woman in the dawning of the day, and fell down at the door of the man's house where her lord was, till it was light.

19:27    早晨，她的主人起來開了房門，出去要行路，不料那婦人仆倒在房門前，兩手搭在門檻上。
And her lord rose up in the morning, and opened the doors of the house, and went out to go his way: and, behold, the woman his concubine was fallen down at the door of the house, and her hands were upon the threshold.

19:28    就對婦人說，起來，我們走吧。婦人卻不回答。那人便將她馱在驢上，起身回本處去了。
And he said unto her, Up, and let us be going. But none answered. Then the man took her up upon an ass, and the man rose up, and gat him unto his place.

19:29    到了家裡，用刀將妾的屍身切成十二塊，使人拿著傳送以色列的四境。
And when he was come into his house, he took a knife, and laid hold on his concubine, and divided her, together with her bones, into twelve pieces, and sent her into all the coasts of Israel.

19:30    凡看見的人都說，從以色列人出埃及地，直到今日，這樣的事沒有行過，也沒有見過。現在應當思想，大家商議當怎樣辦理。
And it was so, that all that saw it said, There was no such deed done nor seen from the day that the children of Israel came up out of the land of Egypt unto this day: consider of it, take advice, and speak your minds.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


20:1    於是以色列從但到別是巴，以及住基列地的眾人都出來，如同一人，聚集在米斯巴耶和華面前。
Then all the children of Israel went out, and the congregation was gathered together as one man, from Dan even to Beersheba, with the land of Gilead, unto the LORD in Mizpeh.

20:2    以色列民的首領，就是各支派的軍長，都站在神百姓的會中。拿刀的步兵共有四十萬。
And the chief of all the people, even of all the tribes of Israel, presented themselves in the assembly of the people of God, four hundred thousand footmen that drew sword.

20:3    以色列人上到米斯巴，便雅憫人都聽見了。以色列人說，請你將這件惡事的情由對我們說明。
(Now the children of Benjamin heard that the children of Israel were gone up to Mizpeh.) Then said the children of Israel, Tell us, how was this wickedness?

20:4    那利未人，就是被害之婦人的丈夫，回答說，我和我的妾到了便雅憫的基比亞住宿。
And the Levite, the husband of the woman that was slain, answered and said, I came into Gibeah that belongeth to Benjamin, I and my concubine, to lodge.

20:5    基比亞人夜間起來，圍了我住的房子，想要殺我，又將我的妾強姦致死。
And the men of Gibeah rose against me, and beset the house round about upon me by night, and thought to have slain me: and my concubine have they forced, that she is dead.

20:6    我就把我妾的屍身切成塊子，使人拿著傳送以色列得為業的全地，因為基比亞人在以色列中行了凶淫醜惡的事。
And I took my concubine, and cut her in pieces, and sent her throughout all the country of the inheritance of Israel: for they have committed lewdness and folly in Israel.

20:7    你們以色列人都當籌劃商議。
Behold, ye are all children of Israel; give here your advice and counsel.

20:8    眾民都起來如同一人，說，我們連一人都不回自己帳棚，自己房屋去。
And all the people arose as one man, saying, We will not any of us go to his tent, neither will we any of us turn into his house.

20:9    我們向基比亞人必這樣行，照所掣的籤去攻擊他們。
But now this shall be the thing which we will do to Gibeah; we will go up by lot against it;

20:10    我們要在以色列各支派中，一百人挑取十人，一千人挑取百人，一萬人挑取千人，為民運糧，等大眾到了便雅憫的基比亞，就照基比亞人在以色列中所行的醜事征伐他們。
And we will take ten men of an hundred throughout all the tribes of Israel, and an hundred of a thousand, and a thousand out of ten thousand, to fetch victual for the people, that they may do, when they come to Gibeah of Benjamin, according to all the folly that they have wrought in Israel.

20:11    於是以色列眾人彼此連合如同一人，聚集攻擊那城。
So all the men of Israel were gathered against the city, knit together as one man.

20:12    以色列眾支派打發人去，問便雅憫支派的各家說，你們中間怎嗎作了這樣的惡事呢。
And the tribes of Israel sent men through all the tribe of Benjamin, saying, What wickedness is this that is done among you?

20:13    現在你們要將基比亞的那些匪徒交出來，我們好治死他們，從以色列中除掉這惡。便雅憫人卻不肯聽從他們弟兄以色列人的話。
Now therefore deliver us the men, the children of Belial, which are in Gibeah, that we may put them to death, and put away evil from Israel. But the children of Benjamin would not hearken to the voice of their brethren the children of Israel:

20:14    便雅憫人從他們的各城裡出來，聚集到了基比亞，要與以色列人打仗。
But the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together out of the cities unto Gibeah, to go out to battle against the children of Israel.

20:15    那時便雅憫人從各城裡點出拿刀的，共有二萬六千。另外還有基比亞人點出七百精兵。
And the children of Benjamin were numbered at that time out of the cities twenty and six thousand men that drew sword, beside the inhabitants of Gibeah, which were numbered seven hundred chosen men.

20:16    在眾軍之中有揀選的七百精兵，都是左手便利的，能用機弦甩石打人，毫髮不差。
Among all this people there were seven hundred chosen men lefthanded; every one could sling stones at an hair breadth, and not miss.

20:17    便雅憫人之外，點出以色列人拿刀的，共有四十萬，都是戰士。
And the men of Israel, beside Benjamin, were numbered four hundred thousand men that drew sword: all these were men of war.

20:18    以色列人就起來，到伯特利去求問神說，我們中間誰當首先上去與便雅憫人爭戰呢。耶和華說，猶大當先上去。
And the children of Israel arose, and went up to the house of God, and asked counsel of God, and said, Which of us shall go up first to the battle against the children of Benjamin? And the LORD said, Judah shall go up first.

20:19    以色列人早晨起來，對著基比亞安營。
And the children of Israel rose up in the morning, and encamped against Gibeah.

20:20    以色列人出來，要與便雅憫人打仗，就在基比亞前擺陣。
And the men of Israel went out to battle against Benjamin; and the men of Israel put themselves in array to fight against them at Gibeah.

20:21    便雅憫人就從基比亞出來，當日殺死以色列人二萬二千。
And the children of Benjamin came forth out of Gibeah, and destroyed down to the ground of the Israelites that day twenty and two thousand men.

20:22    以色列人彼此奮勇，仍在頭一日擺陣的地方又擺陣。
And the people the men of Israel encouraged themselves, and set their battle again in array in the place where they put themselves in array the first day.

20:23    未擺陣之先，以色列人上去，在耶和華面前哭號，直到晚上，求問耶和華說，我們再去與我們弟兄便雅憫人打仗可以不可以。耶和華說，可以上去攻擊他們。
(And the children of Israel went up and wept before the LORD until even, and asked counsel of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up again to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother? And the LORD said, Go up against him.)

20:24    第二日，以色列人就上前攻擊便雅憫人。
And the children of Israel came near against the children of Benjamin the second day.

20:25    便雅憫人也在這日從基比亞出來，與以色列人接戰，又殺死他們一萬八千，都是拿刀的。
And Benjamin went forth against them out of Gibeah the second day, and destroyed down to the ground of the children of Israel again eighteen thousand men; all these drew the sword.

20:26    以色列眾人就上到伯特利，坐在耶和華面前哭號，當日禁食直到晚上。又在耶和華面前獻燔祭和平安祭。
Then all the children of Israel, and all the people, went up, and came unto the house of God, and wept, and sat there before the LORD, and fasted that day until even, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.

20:27    *
And the children of Israel enquired of the LORD, (for the ark of the covenant of God was there in those days,

20:28    那時，神的約櫃在那裡。亞倫的孫子，以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈侍立在約櫃前。以色列人問耶和華說，我們當再出去與我們弟兄便雅憫人打仗呢。還是吧兵呢。耶和華說，你們當上去，因為明日我必將他們交在你們手中。
And Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron, stood before it in those days,) saying, Shall I yet again go out to battle against the children of Benjamin my brother, or shall I cease? And the LORD said, Go up; for to morrow I will deliver them into thine hand.

20:29    以色列人在基比亞的四圍設下伏兵。
And Israel set liers in wait round about Gibeah.

20:30    第三日，以色列人又上去攻擊便雅憫人，在基比亞前擺陣，與前兩次一樣。
And the children of Israel went up against the children of Benjamin on the third day, and put themselves in array against Gibeah, as at other times.

20:31    便雅憫人也出來迎敵，就被引誘離城。在田間兩條路上，一通伯特利，一通基比亞，像前兩次，動手殺死以色列人約有三十個。
And the children of Benjamin went out against the people, and were drawn away from the city; and they began to smite of the people, and kill, as at other times, in the highways, of which one goeth up to the house of God, and the other to Gibeah in the field, about thirty men of Israel.

20:32    便雅憫人說，他們仍舊敗在我們面前。但以色列人說，我們不如逃跑，引誘他們離開城到路上來。
And the children of Benjamin said, They are smitten down before us, as at the first. But the children of Israel said, Let us flee, and draw them from the city unto the highways.

20:33    以色列眾人都起來，在巴力他瑪擺陣，以色列的伏兵從馬利迦巴埋伏的地方衝上前去。
And all the men of Israel rose up out of their place, and put themselves in array at Baaltamar: and the liers in wait of Israel came forth out of their places, even out of the meadows of Gibeah.

20:34    有以色列人中的一萬精兵，來到基比亞前接戰，勢派甚是凶猛。便雅憫人卻不知道災禍臨近了。
And there came against Gibeah ten thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and the battle was sore: but they knew not that evil was near them.

20:35    耶和華使以色列人殺敗便雅憫人。那日，以色列人殺死便雅憫人二萬五千一百，都是拿刀的。
And the LORD smote Benjamin before Israel: and the children of Israel destroyed of the Benjamites that day twenty and five thousand and an hundred men: all these drew the sword.

20:36    於是便雅憫人知道自己敗了。先是以色列人。因為靠著在基比亞前所設的伏兵，就在便雅憫人面前嫂敗。
So the children of Benjamin saw that they were smitten: for the men of Israel gave place to the Benjamites, because they trusted unto the liers in wait which they had set beside Gibeah.

20:37    伏兵急忙闖進基比亞，用刀殺死全城的人。
And the liers in wait hasted, and rushed upon Gibeah; and the liers in wait drew themselves along, and smote all the city with the edge of the sword.

20:38    以色列人預先同伏兵約定在城內放火，以煙氣上騰為號。
Now there was an appointed sign between the men of Israel and the liers in wait, that they should make a great flame with smoke rise up out of the city.

20:39    以色列人臨退陣的時候，便雅憫人動手殺死以色列人，約有三十個，就說，他們仍像前次被我們殺敗了。
And when the men of Israel retired in the battle, Benjamin began to smite and kill of the men of Israel about thirty persons: for they said, Surely they are smitten down before us, as in the first battle.

20:40    當煙氣如柱從城中上騰的時候，便雅憫人回頭觀看，見全城的煙氣沖天。
But when the flame began to arise up out of the city with a pillar of smoke, the Benjamites looked behind them, and, behold, the flame of the city ascended up to heaven.

20:41    以色列人又轉身回來，便雅憫人就甚驚惶，因為看見災禍臨到自己了。
And when the men of Israel turned again, the men of Benjamin were amazed: for they saw that evil was come upon them.

20:42    他們在以色列人面前轉身往曠野逃跑。以色列人在後面追殺。那從各城裡出來的，也都夾攻殺滅他們。
Therefore they turned their backs before the men of Israel unto the way of the wilderness; but the battle overtook them; and them which came out of the cities they destroyed in the midst of them.

20:43    以色列人圍繞便雅憫人，追趕他們，在他們歇腳之處，對著日出之地的基比亞踐踏他們。
Thus they inclosed the Benjamites round about, and chased them, and trode them down with ease over against Gibeah toward the sunrising.

20:44    便雅憫人死了的有一萬八千，都是勇士。
And there fell of Benjamin eighteen thousand men; all these were men of valour.

20:45    其餘的人轉身向曠野逃跑，往臨門磐去。以色列人在道路上殺了他們五千人，如拾取遺穗一樣，追到基頓又殺了他們二千人。
And they turned and fled toward the wilderness unto the rock of Rimmon: and they gleaned of them in the highways five thousand men; and pursued hard after them unto Gidom, and slew two thousand men of them.

20:46    那日便雅憫死了的共有二萬五千人，都是拿刀的勇士。
So that all which fell that day of Benjamin were twenty and five thousand men that drew the sword; all these were men of valour.



20:47    只剩下六百人，轉身向曠野逃跑，到了臨門磐，就在那裡住了四個月。
But six hundred men turned and fled to the wilderness unto the rock Rimmon, and abode in the rock Rimmon four months.

20:48    以色列人又轉到便雅憫地，將各城的人和牲畜，並一切所遇見的，都用刀殺盡，又放火燒了一切城邑。
And the men of Israel turned again upon the children of Benjamin, and smote them with the edge of the sword, as well the men of every city, as the beast, and all that came to hand: also they set on fire all the cities that they came to.




舊約 -- 士師記(Judges) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 21 章 )    　


21:1    以色列人在米斯巴曾起誓說，我們都不將女兒給便雅憫人為妻。
Now the men of Israel had sworn in Mizpeh, saying, There shall not any of us give his daughter unto Benjamin to wife.

21:2    以色列人來到伯特利，坐在神面前直到晚上，放聲痛哭，
And the people came to the house of God, and abode there till even before God, and lifted up their voices, and wept sore;

21:3    說，耶和華以色列的神阿，為何以色列中有這樣缺了一支派的事呢。
And said, O LORD God of Israel, why is this come to pass in Israel, that there should be to day one tribe lacking in Israel?

21:4    次日清早，百姓起來，在那裡築了一座壇，獻燔祭和平安祭。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the people rose early, and built there an altar, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings.

21:5    以色列人彼此問說，以色列各支派中，誰沒有同會眾上到耶和華面前來呢。先是以色列人起過大誓說，凡不上米斯巴到耶和華面前來的，必將他治死。
And the children of Israel said, Who is there among all the tribes of Israel that came not up with the congregation unto the LORD? For they had made a great oath concerning him that came not up to the LORD to Mizpeh, saying, He shall surely be put to death.

21:6    以色列人為他們的弟兄便雅憫後悔，說，如今以色列中絕了一個支派了。
And the children of Israel repented them for Benjamin their brother, and said, There is one tribe cut off from Israel this day.

21:7    我們既在耶和華面前起誓說，必不將我們的女兒給便雅憫人為妻，現在我們當怎樣辦理，使他們剩下的人有妻呢。
How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing we have sworn by the LORD that we will not give them of our daughters to wives?

21:8    又彼此問說，以色列支派中誰沒有上米斯巴到耶和華面前來呢。他們就查出基列雅比沒有一人進營到會眾那裡。
And they said, What one is there of the tribes of Israel that came not up to Mizpeh to the LORD? And, behold, there came none to the camp from Jabeshgilead to the assembly.

21:9    因為百姓被數的時候，沒有一個基列雅比人在那裡。
For the people were numbered, and, behold, there were none of the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead there.

21:10    會眾就打發一萬二千大勇士，吩咐他們說，你們去用刀將基列雅比人連婦女帶孩子都擊殺了。
And the congregation sent thither twelve thousand men of the valiantest, and commanded them, saying, Go and smite the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead with the edge of the sword, with the women and the children.

21:11    所當行的就是這樣，要將一切男子和已嫁的女子盡行殺戮。
And this is the thing that ye shall do, Ye shall utterly destroy every male, and every woman that hath lain by man.

21:12    他們在基列雅比人中，遇見了四百個未嫁的處女，就帶到迦南地的示羅營裡。
And they found among the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead four hundred young virgins, that had known no man by lying with any male: and they brought them unto the camp to Shiloh, which is in the land of Canaan.

21:13    全會眾打發人到臨門磐的便雅憫人那裡，向他們說和睦的話。
And the whole congregation sent some to speak to the children of Benjamin that were in the rock Rimmon, and to call peaceably unto them.

21:14    當時便雅憫人回來了，以色列人就把所存活基列雅比的女子給他們為妻，還是不夠。
And Benjamin came again at that time; and they gave them wives which they had saved alive of the women of Jabeshgilead: and yet so they sufficed them not.

21:15    百姓為便雅憫人後悔，因為耶和華使以色列人缺了一個支派（原文作使以色列中有了破口）。
And the people repented them for Benjamin, because that the LORD had made a breach in the tribes of Israel.

21:16    會中的長老說，便雅憫中的女子既然除滅了，我們當怎樣辦理，使那餘剩的人有妻呢。
Then the elders of the congregation said, How shall we do for wives for them that remain, seeing the women are destroyed out of Benjamin?

21:17    又說，便雅憫逃脫的人當有地業，免得以色列中塗抹了一個支派。
And they said, There must be an inheritance for them that be escaped of Benjamin, that a tribe be not destroyed out of Israel.

21:18    只是我們不能將自己的女兒給他們為妻。因為以色列人曾起誓說，有將女兒給便雅憫人為妻的，必受咒詛。
Howbeit we may not give them wives of our daughters: for the children of Israel have sworn, saying, Cursed be he that giveth a wife to Benjamin.

21:19    他們又說，在利波拿以南，伯特利以北，在示劍大路以東的示羅，年年有耶和華的節期。
Then they said, Behold, there is a feast of the LORD in Shiloh yearly in a place which is on the north side of Bethel, on the east side of the highway that goeth up from Bethel to Shechem, and on the south of Lebonah.

21:20    就吩咐便雅憫人說，你們去，在葡萄園中埋伏。
Therefore they commanded the children of Benjamin, saying, Go and lie in wait in the vineyards;

21:21    若看見示羅的女子出來跳舞，就從葡萄園出來，在示羅的女子中各搶一個為妻，回便雅憫地去。
And see, and, behold, if the daughters of Shiloh come out to dance in dances, then come ye out of the vineyards, and catch you every man his wife of the daughters of Shiloh, and go to the land of Benjamin.

21:22    他們的父親或是弟兄若來與我們爭競，我們就說，求你們看我們的情面，施恩給這些人，因我們在爭戰的時候沒有給他們留下女子為妻。這也不是你們將女子給他們的。若是你們給的，就算有罪。
And it shall be, when their fathers or their brethren come unto us to complain, that we will say unto them, Be favourable unto them for our sakes: because we reserved not to each man his wife in the war: for ye did not give unto them at this time, that ye should be guilty.

21:23    於是便雅憫人照樣而行，按著他們的數目從跳舞的女子中搶去為妻，就回自己的地業去，又重修城邑居住。
And the children of Benjamin did so, and took them wives, according to their number, of them that danced, whom they caught: and they went and returned unto their inheritance, and repaired the cities, and dwelt in them.

21:24    當時以色列人離開那裡，各歸本支派，本宗族，本地業去了。
And the children of Israel departed thence at that time, every man to his tribe and to his family, and they went out from thence every man to his inheritance.

21:25    那時，以色列中沒有王，各人任意而行。
In those days there was no king in Israel: every man did that which was right in his own eyes.




