

舊約 -- 路得記(Ruth) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


1:1    當士師秉政的時候，國中遭遇饑荒，在猶大伯利恆，有一個人帶著妻子和兩個兒子，往摩押地去寄居。
Now it came to pass in the days when the judges ruled, that there was a famine in the land. And a certain man of Bethlehemjudah went to sojourn in the country of Moab, he, and his wife, and his two sons.

1:2    這人名叫以利米勒，他的妻名叫拿俄米。他兩個兒子，一個名叫瑪倫，一個名叫基連，都是猶大伯利恆的以法他人。他們到了摩押地，就住在那裡。
And the name of the man was Elimelech, and the name of his wife Naomi, and the name of his two sons Mahlon and Chilion, Ephrathites of Bethlehemjudah. And they came into the country of Moab, and continued there.

1:3    後來拿俄米的丈夫以利米勒死了，剩下婦人和她兩個兒子。
And Elimelech Naomi's husband died; and she was left, and her two sons.

1:4    這兩個兒子娶了摩押女子為妻，一個名叫俄珥巴，一個名叫路得，在那裡住了約有十年。
And they took them wives of the women of Moab; the name of the one was Orpah, and the name of the other Ruth: and they dwelled there about ten years.

1:5    瑪倫和基連二人也死了，剩下拿俄米，沒有丈夫，也沒有兒子。
And Mahlon and Chilion died also both of them; and the woman was left of her two sons and her husband.

1:6    她就與兩個兒婦起身，要從摩押地歸回。因為她在摩押地，聽見耶和華眷顧自己的百姓，賜糧食與他們。
Then she arose with her daughters in law, that she might return from the country of Moab: for she had heard in the country of Moab how that the LORD had visited his people in giving them bread.

1:7    於是她和兩個兒婦起行離開所住的地方，要回猶大地去。
Wherefore she went forth out of the place where she was, and her two daughters in law with her; and they went on the way to return unto the land of Judah.

1:8    拿俄米對兩個兒婦說，你們各人回孃家去吧，願耶和華恩待你們，像你們恩待已死的人與我一樣。
And Naomi said unto her two daughters in law, Go, return each to her mother's house: the LORD deal kindly with you, as ye have dealt with the dead, and with me.

1:9    願耶和華使你們各在新夫家中得平安。於是，拿俄米與她們親嘴。她們就放聲而哭，
The LORD grant you that ye may find rest, each of you in the house of her husband. Then she kissed them; and they lifted up their voice, and wept.

1:10    說，不然，我們必與你一同回你本國去。
And they said unto her, Surely we will return with thee unto thy people.

1:11    拿俄米說，我女兒們哪，回去吧，為何要跟我去呢。我還能生子作你們的丈夫嗎。
And Naomi said, Turn again, my daughters: why will ye go with me? are there yet any more sons in my womb, that they may be your husbands?

1:12    我女兒們哪，回去吧，我年紀老邁，不能再有丈夫。即或說，我還有指望，今夜有丈夫可以生子。
Turn again, my daughters, go your way; for I am too old to have an husband. If I should say, I have hope, if I should have an husband also to night, and should also bear sons;

1:13    你們豈能等著他們長大呢，你們豈能等著他們不嫁別人呢。我女兒們哪，不要這樣，我為你們的緣故，甚是愁苦，因為耶和華伸手攻擊我。
Would ye tarry for them till they were grown? would ye stay for them from having husbands? nay, my daughters; for it grieveth me much for your sakes that the hand of the LORD is gone out against me.

1:14    兩個兒婦又放聲而哭，俄珥巴與婆婆親嘴而別，只是路得捨不得拿俄米。
And they lifted up their voice, and wept again: and Orpah kissed her mother in law; but Ruth clave unto her.

1:15    拿俄米說，看哪，你嫂子已經回她本國，和她所拜的神那裡去了，你也跟著你嫂子回去吧。
And she said, Behold, thy sister in law is gone back unto her people, and unto her gods: return thou after thy sister in law.

1:16    路得說，不要催我回去不跟隨你，你往哪裡去，我也往那裡去。你在哪裡住宿，我也在那裡住宿。你的國就是我的國，你的神就是我的神。
And Ruth said, Intreat me not to leave thee, or to return from following after thee: for whither thou goest, I will go; and where thou lodgest, I will lodge: thy people shall be my people, and thy God my God:

1:17    你在哪裡死，我也在那裡死，也葬在那裡。除非死能使你我相離，不然，願耶和華重重地降罰與我。
Where thou diest, will I die, and there will I be buried: the LORD do so to me, and more also, if ought but death part thee and me.

1:18    拿俄米見路得定意要跟隨自己去，就不再勸她了。
When she saw that she was stedfastly minded to go with her, then she left speaking unto her.

1:19    於是二人同行，來到伯利恆。她們到了伯利恆，合城的人就都驚訝。婦女們說，這是拿俄米嗎。
So they two went until they came to Bethlehem. And it came to pass, when they were come to Bethlehem, that all the city was moved about them, and they said, Is this Naomi?

1:20    拿俄米對他們說，不要叫我拿俄米（拿俄米就是甜的意思），要叫我瑪拉（瑪拉就是苦的意思），因為全能者使我受了大苦。
And she said unto them, Call me not Naomi, call me Mara: for the Almighty hath dealt very bitterly with me.

1:21    我滿滿的出去，耶和華使我空空的回來。耶和華降禍與我，全能者使我受苦，既是這樣，你們為何還叫我拿俄米呢。
I went out full, and the LORD hath brought me home again empty: why then call ye me Naomi, seeing the LORD hath testified against me, and the Almighty hath afflicted me?

1:22    拿俄米和她兒婦摩押女子路得，從摩押地回來到伯利恆，正是動手割大麥的時候。
So Naomi returned, and Ruth the Moabitess, her daughter in law, with her, which returned out of the country of Moab: and they came to Bethlehem in the beginning of barley harvest.




舊約 -- 路得記(Ruth) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


2:1    拿俄米的丈夫以利米勒的親族中，有一個人名叫波阿斯，是一個大財主。
And Naomi had a kinsman of her husband's, a mighty man of wealth, of the family of Elimelech; and his name was Boaz.

2:2    摩押女子路得對拿俄米說，容我往田間去，我蒙誰的恩，就在誰的身後拾取麥穗。拿俄米說，女兒阿，你只管去。
And Ruth the Moabitess said unto Naomi, Let me now go to the field, and glean ears of corn after him in whose sight I shall find grace. And she said unto her, Go, my daughter.

2:3    路得就去了，來到田間，在收割的人身後拾取麥穗。她恰巧到了以利米勒本族的人，波阿斯那塊田裡。
And she went, and came, and gleaned in the field after the reapers: and her hap was to light on a part of the field belonging unto Boaz, who was of the kindred of Elimelech.

2:4    波阿斯正從伯利恆來，對收割的人說，願耶和華與你們同在。他們回答說，願耶和華賜福與你。
And, behold, Boaz came from Bethlehem, and said unto the reapers, The LORD be with you. And they answered him, The LORD bless thee.

2:5    波阿斯問監管收割的僕人說，那是誰家的女子。
Then said Boaz unto his servant that was set over the reapers, Whose damsel is this?

2:6    監管收割的僕人回答說，是那摩押女子，跟隨拿俄米從摩押地回來的。
And the servant that was set over the reapers answered and said, It is the Moabitish damsel that came back with Naomi out of the country of Moab:

2:7    她說，請你容我跟著收割的人，拾取打捆剩下的麥穗，她從早晨直到如今，除了在屋子裡坐一會兒，常在這裡。
And she said, I pray you, let me glean and gather after the reapers among the sheaves: so she came, and hath continued even from the morning until now, that she tarried a little in the house.

2:8    波阿斯對路得說，女兒阿，聽我說，不要往別人田裡拾取麥穗，也不要離開這裡，要常與我使女們在一處。
Then said Boaz unto Ruth, Hearest thou not, my daughter? Go not to glean in another field, neither go from hence, but abide here fast by my maidens:

2:9    我的僕人在那塊田收割，你就跟著他們去。我已經吩咐僕人不可欺負你。你若渴了，就可以到器皿那裡喝僕人打來的水。
Let thine eyes be on the field that they do reap, and go thou after them: have I not charged the young men that they shall not touch thee? and when thou art athirst, go unto the vessels, and drink of that which the young men have drawn.

2:10    路得就俯伏在地叩拜，對他說，我既是外邦人，怎嗎蒙你的恩，這樣顧恤我呢。
Then she fell on her face, and bowed herself to the ground, and said unto him, Why have I found grace in thine eyes, that thou shouldest take knowledge of me, seeing I am a stranger?

2:11    波阿斯回答說，自從你丈夫死後，凡你向婆婆所行的，並你離開父母和本地，到素不認識的民中，這些事人全都告訴我了。
And Boaz answered and said unto her, It hath fully been shewed me, all that thou hast done unto thy mother in law since the death of thine husband: and how thou hast left thy father and thy mother, and the land of thy nativity, and art come unto a people which thou knewest not heretofore.

2:12    願耶和華照你所行的賞賜你。你來投靠耶和華以色列神的翅膀下，願你滿得他的賞賜。
The LORD recompense thy work, and a full reward be given thee of the LORD God of Israel, under whose wings thou art come to trust.

2:13    路得說，我主阿，願在你眼前蒙恩。我雖然不及你的一個使女，你還用慈愛的話安慰我的心。
Then she said, Let me find favour in thy sight, my lord; for that thou hast comforted me, and for that thou hast spoken friendly unto thine handmaid, though I be not like unto one of thine handmaidens.

2:14    到了吃飯的時候，波阿斯對路得說，你到這裡來吃餅，將餅蘸在醋裡。路得就在收割的人旁邊坐下，他們把烘了的穗子遞給她。她吃飽了，還有餘剩的。
And Boaz said unto her, At mealtime come thou hither, and eat of the bread, and dip thy morsel in the vinegar. And she sat beside the reapers: and he reached her parched corn, and she did eat, and was sufficed, and left.

2:15    她起來又拾取麥穗，波阿斯吩咐僕人說，她就是在捆中拾取麥穗，也可以容她，不可羞辱她。
And when she was risen up to glean, Boaz commanded his young men, saying, Let her glean even among the sheaves, and reproach her not:

2:16    並要從捆裡抽出些來，留在地下任她拾取，不可叱嚇她。
And let fall also some of the handfuls of purpose for her, and leave them, that she may glean them, and rebuke her not.

2:17    這樣，路得在田間拾取麥穗，直到晚上，將所拾取的打了，約有一伊法大麥。
So she gleaned in the field until even, and beat out that she had gleaned: and it was about an ephah of barley.

2:18    她就把所拾取的帶進城去給婆婆看，又把她吃飽了所剩的給了婆婆。
And she took it up, and went into the city: and her mother in law saw what she had gleaned: and she brought forth, and gave to her that she had reserved after she was sufficed.

2:19    婆婆問她說，你今日在哪裡拾取麥穗，在哪裡做工呢，願那顧恤你的得福。路得就告訴婆婆說，我今日在一個名叫波阿斯的人那裡做工。
And her mother in law said unto her, Where hast thou gleaned to day? and where wroughtest thou? blessed be he that did take knowledge of thee. And she shewed her mother in law with whom she had wrought, and said, The man's name with whom I wrought to day is Boaz.

2:20    拿俄米對兒婦說，願那人蒙耶和華賜福，因為他不斷地恩待活人死人。拿俄米又說，那是我們本族的人，是一個至近的親屬。
And Naomi said unto her daughter in law, Blessed be he of the LORD, who hath not left off his kindness to the living and to the dead. And Naomi said unto her, The man is near of kin unto us, one of our next kinsmen.

2:21    摩押女子路得說，他對我說，你要緊隨我的僕人拾取麥穗，直等他們收完了我的莊稼。
And Ruth the Moabitess said, He said unto me also, Thou shalt keep fast by my young men, until they have ended all my harvest.

2:22    拿俄米對兒婦路得說，女兒阿，你跟著他的使女出去，不叫人遇見你在別人田間，這才為好。
And Naomi said unto Ruth her daughter in law, It is good, my daughter, that thou go out with his maidens, that they meet thee not in any other field.

2:23    於是路得與波阿斯的使女常在一處拾取麥穗，直到收完了大麥和小麥。路得仍與婆婆同住。
So she kept fast by the maidens of Boaz to glean unto the end of barley harvest and of wheat harvest; and dwelt with her mother in law.




舊約 -- 路得記(Ruth) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


3:1    路得的婆婆拿俄米對她說，女兒阿，我不當為你找個安身之處，使你享福嗎。
Then Naomi her mother in law said unto her, My daughter, shall I not seek rest for thee, that it may be well with thee?

3:2    你與波阿斯的使女常在一處，波阿斯不是我們的親族嗎。他今夜在場上簸大麥，
And now is not Boaz of our kindred, with whose maidens thou wast? Behold, he winnoweth barley to night in the threshingfloor.

3:3    你要沭浴抹膏，換上衣服，下到場上，卻不要使那人認出你來。你等他吃喝完了，
Wash thyself therefore, and anoint thee, and put thy raiment upon thee, and get thee down to the floor: but make not thyself known unto the man, until he shall have done eating and drinking.

3:4    到他睡的時候，你看準他睡的地方，就進去掀開他腳上的被，躺臥在那裡，他必告訴你所當做的事。
And it shall be, when he lieth down, that thou shalt mark the place where he shall lie, and thou shalt go in, and uncover his feet, and lay thee down; and he will tell thee what thou shalt do.

3:5    路得說，凡你所吩咐的，我必遵行。
And she said unto her, All that thou sayest unto me I will do.

3:6    路得就下到場上，照她婆婆所吩咐她的而行。
And she went down unto the floor, and did according to all that her mother in law bade her.

3:7    波阿斯吃喝完了，心裡歡暢，就去睡在麥堆旁邊。路得便悄悄地來掀開他腳上的被，躺臥在那裡。
And when Boaz had eaten and drunk, and his heart was merry, he went to lie down at the end of the heap of corn: and she came softly, and uncovered his feet, and laid her down.

3:8    到了夜半，那人忽然驚醒，翻過身來，不料有女子躺在他的腳下。
And it came to pass at midnight, that the man was afraid, and turned himself: and, behold, a woman lay at his feet.

3:9    他就說，你是誰。回答說，我是你的婢女路得。求你用你的衣襟遮蓋我，因為你是我一個至近的親屬。
And he said, Who art thou? And she answered, I am Ruth thine handmaid: spread therefore thy skirt over thine handmaid; for thou art a near kinsman.

3:10    波阿斯說，女兒阿，願你蒙耶和華賜福。你末後的恩比先前更大。因為少年人無論貧富，你都沒有跟從。
And he said, Blessed be thou of the LORD, my daughter: for thou hast shewed more kindness in the latter end than at the beginning, inasmuch as thou followedst not young men, whether poor or rich.

3:11    女兒阿，現在不要懼怕，凡你所說的，我必照著行。我本城的人都知道你是個賢德的女子。
And now, my daughter, fear not; I will do to thee all that thou requirest: for all the city of my people doth know that thou art a virtuous woman.

3:12    我實在是你一個至近的親屬，只是還有一個人比我更近。
And now it is true that I am thy near kinsman: howbeit there is a kinsman nearer than I.

3:13    你今夜在這裡住宿，明早他若肯為你盡親屬的本分。就由他吧。倘若不肯，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，我必為你盡了本分，你只管躺到天亮。
Tarry this night, and it shall be in the morning, that if he will perform unto thee the part of a kinsman, well; let him do the kinsman's part: but if he will not do the part of a kinsman to thee, then will I do the part of a kinsman to thee, as the LORD liveth: lie down until the morning.

3:14    路得便在他腳下躺到天快亮。人彼此不能辨認的時候就起來了。波阿斯說，不可使人知道有女子到場上來。
And she lay at his feet until the morning: and she rose up before one could know another. And he said, Let it not be known that a woman came into the floor.

3:15    又對路得說，開啟你所披的外衣。她開啟了，波阿斯就撮了六簸箕大麥，幫她扛在肩上，她便進城去了。
Also he said, Bring the vail that thou hast upon thee, and hold it. And when she held it, he measured six measures of barley, and laid it on her: and she went into the city.

3:16    路得回到婆婆那裡，婆婆說，女兒阿，怎嗎樣了。路得就將那人向她所行的述說了一遍。
And when she came to her mother in law, she said, Who art thou, my daughter? And she told her all that the man had done to her.

3:17    又說，那人給了我六簸箕大麥，對我說，你不可空手回去見你的婆婆。
And she said, These six measures of barley gave he me; for he said to me, Go not empty unto thy mother in law.

3:18    婆婆說，女兒阿，你只管安坐等候，看這事怎樣成就，因為那人今日不辦成這事必不休息。
Then said she, Sit still, my daughter, until thou know how the matter will fall: for the man will not be in rest, until he have finished the thing this day.




舊約 -- 路得記(Ruth) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


4:1    波阿斯到了城門，坐在那裡，恰巧波阿斯所說的那至近的親屬經過。波阿斯說，某人哪，你來坐在這裡。他就來坐下。
Then went Boaz up to the gate, and sat him down there: and, behold, the kinsman of whom Boaz spake came by; unto whom he said, Ho, such a one! turn aside, sit down here. And he turned aside, and sat down.

4:2    波阿斯又從本城的長老中揀選了十人，對他們說，請你們坐在這裡。他們就都坐下。
And he took ten men of the elders of the city, and said, Sit ye down here. And they sat down.

4:3    波阿斯對那至近的親屬說，從摩押地回來的拿俄米，現在要賣我們族兄以利米勒的那塊地。
And he said unto the kinsman, Naomi, that is come again out of the country of Moab, selleth a parcel of land, which was our brother Elimelech's:

4:4    我想當贖那塊地的是你，其次是我，以外再沒有別人了。你可以在這裡的人面前，和我本國的長老面前說明，你若肯贖就贖，若不肯贖就告訴我。那人回答說，我肯贖。
And I thought to advertise thee, saying, Buy it before the inhabitants, and before the elders of my people. If thou wilt redeem it, redeem it: but if thou wilt not redeem it, then tell me, that I may know: for there is none to redeem it beside thee; and I am after thee. And he said, I will redeem it.

4:5    波阿斯說，你從拿俄米手中買這地的時候，也當娶（原文作買十節同）死人的妻摩押女子路得，使死人在產業上存留他的名。
Then said Boaz, What day thou buyest the field of the hand of Naomi, thou must buy it also of Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of the dead, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance.

4:6    那人說，這樣我就不能贖了，恐怕於我的產業有礙。你可以贖我所當贖的，我不能贖了。
And the kinsman said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I mar mine own inheritance: redeem thou my right to thyself; for I cannot redeem it.

4:7    從前，在以色列中要定奪什麼事，或贖回，或交易，這人就脫鞋給那人。以色列人都以此為證據。
Now this was the manner in former time in Israel concerning redeeming and concerning changing, for to confirm all things; a man plucked off his shoe, and gave it to his neighbour: and this was a testimony in Israel.

4:8    那人對波阿斯說，你自己買吧。於是將鞋脫下來了。
Therefore the kinsman said unto Boaz, Buy it for thee. So he drew off his shoe.

4:9    波阿斯對長老和眾民說，你們今日作見證，凡屬以利米勒和基連，瑪倫的，我都從拿俄米手中置買了。
And Boaz said unto the elders, and unto all the people, Ye are witnesses this day, that I have bought all that was Elimelech's, and all that was Chilion's and Mahlon's, of the hand of Naomi.

4:10    又娶了瑪倫的妻摩押女子路得為妻，好在死人的產業上存留他的名，免得他的名在本族本鄉滅沒。你們今日可以作見證。
Moreover Ruth the Moabitess, the wife of Mahlon, have I purchased to be my wife, to raise up the name of the dead upon his inheritance, that the name of the dead be not cut off from among his brethren, and from the gate of his place: ye are witnesses this day.

4:11    在城門坐著的眾民和長老都說，我們作見證。願耶和華使進你家的這女子，像建立以色列家的拉結，利亞二人一樣。又願你在以法他得亨通，在伯利恆得名聲。
And all the people that were in the gate, and the elders, said, We are witnesses. The LORD make the woman that is come into thine house like Rachel and like Leah, which two did build the house of Israel: and do thou worthily in Ephratah, and be famous in Bethlehem:

4:12    願耶和華從這少年女子賜你後裔，使你的家像他瑪，從猶大所生法勒斯的家一般。
And let thy house be like the house of Pharez, whom Tamar bare unto Judah, of the seed which the LORD shall give thee of this young woman.

4:13    於是，波阿斯娶了路得為妻，與她同房。耶和華使她懷孕生了一個兒子。
So Boaz took Ruth, and she was his wife: and when he went in unto her, the LORD gave her conception, and she bare a son.

4:14    婦人們對拿俄米說，耶和華是應當稱頌的。因為今日沒有撇下你使你無至近的親屬。願這孩子在以色列中得名聲。
And the women said unto Naomi, Blessed be the LORD, which hath not left thee this day without a kinsman, that his name may be famous in Israel.

4:15    他必提起你的精神，奉養你的老，因為是愛慕你的那兒婦所生的。有這兒婦比有七個兒子還好。
And he shall be unto thee a restorer of thy life, and a nourisher of thine old age: for thy daughter in law, which loveth thee, which is better to thee than seven sons, hath born him.

4:16    拿俄米就把孩子抱在懷中，作他的養母。
And Naomi took the child, and laid it in her bosom, and became nurse unto it.

4:17    鄰舍的婦人說，拿俄米得孩子了。就給孩子起名叫俄備得。這俄備得是耶西的父，耶西是大衛的父。
And the women her neighbours gave it a name, saying, There is a son born to Naomi; and they called his name Obed: he is the father of Jesse, the father of David.

4:18    法勒斯的後代，記在下面。勒斯生希斯崙。
Now these are the generations of Pharez: Pharez begat Hezron,

4:19    希斯崙生蘭，蘭生亞米拿達。
And Hezron begat Ram, and Ram begat Amminadab,

4:20    亞米拿達生拿順，拿順生撒門。
And Amminadab begat Nahshon, and Nahshon begat Salmon,

4:21    撒門生波阿斯，波阿斯生俄備得。
And Salmon begat Boaz, and Boaz begat Obed,



4:22    俄備得生耶西，耶西生大衛。
And Obed begat Jesse, and Jesse begat David.




