

舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


1:1    以法蓮山地的拉瑪瑣非有一個以法蓮人，名叫以利加拿，是蘇弗的玄孫，託戶的曾孫，以利戶的孫子，耶羅罕的兒子。
Now there was a certain man of Ramathaimzophim, of mount Ephraim, and his name was Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Elihu, the son of Tohu, the son of Zuph, an Ephrathite:

1:2    他有兩個妻，一名哈拿，一名毗尼拿。毗尼拿有兒女，哈拿沒有兒女。
And he had two wives; the name of the one was Hannah, and the name of the other Peninnah: and Peninnah had children, but Hannah had no children.

1:3    這人每年從本城上到示羅，敬拜祭祀萬軍之耶和華。在那裡有以利的兩個兒子何弗尼，非尼哈當耶和華的祭司。
And this man went up out of his city yearly to worship and to sacrifice unto the LORD of hosts in Shiloh. And the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, the priests of the LORD, were there.

1:4    以利加拿每逢獻祭的日子，將祭肉分給他的妻毗尼拿和毗尼拿所生的兒女。
And when the time was that Elkanah offered, he gave to Peninnah his wife, and to all her sons and her daughters, portions:

1:5    給哈拿的卻是雙分，因為他愛哈拿。無奈耶和華不使哈拿生育。
But unto Hannah he gave a worthy portion; for he loved Hannah: but the LORD had shut up her womb.

1:6    毗尼拿見耶和華不使哈拿生育，就作她的對頭，大大激動她，要使她生氣。
And her adversary also provoked her sore, for to make her fret, because the LORD had shut up her womb.

1:7    每年上到耶和華殿的時候，以利加拿都以雙分給哈拿。毗尼拿仍是激動她，以致她哭泣不吃飯。
And as he did so year by year, when she went up to the house of the LORD, so she provoked her; therefore she wept, and did not eat.

1:8    她丈夫以利加拿對她說，哈拿阿，你為何哭泣，不吃飯，心裡愁悶呢。有我不比十個兒子還好嗎。
Then said Elkanah her husband to her, Hannah, why weepest thou? and why eatest thou not? and why is thy heart grieved? am not I better to thee than ten sons?

1:9    他們在示羅吃喝完了，哈拿就站起來。祭司以利在耶和華殿的門框旁邊，坐在自己的位上。
So Hannah rose up after they had eaten in Shiloh, and after they had drunk. Now Eli the priest sat upon a seat by a post of the temple of the LORD.

1:10    哈拿心裡愁苦，就痛痛哭泣，祈禱耶和華，
And she was in bitterness of soul, and prayed unto the LORD, and wept sore.

1:11    許願說，萬軍之耶和華阿，你若垂顧婢女的苦情，眷念不忘婢女，賜我一個兒子，我必使他終身歸與耶和華，不用剃頭刀剃他的頭。
And she vowed a vow, and said, O LORD of hosts, if thou wilt indeed look on the affliction of thine handmaid, and remember me, and not forget thine handmaid, but wilt give unto thine handmaid a man child, then I will give him unto the LORD all the days of his life, and there shall no razor come upon his head.

1:12    哈拿在耶和華面前不住地祈禱，以利定睛看她的嘴。
And it came to pass, as she continued praying before the LORD, that Eli marked her mouth.

1:13    原來哈拿心中默禱，只動嘴脣，不出聲音，因此以利以為她喝醉了。
Now Hannah, she spake in her heart; only her lips moved, but her voice was not heard: therefore Eli thought she had been drunken.

1:14    以利對她說，你要醉到幾時呢。你不應該喝酒。
And Eli said unto her, How long wilt thou be drunken? put away thy wine from thee.

1:15    哈拿回答說，主阿，不是這樣。我是心裡愁苦的婦人，清酒濃酒都沒有喝，但在耶和華面前傾心吐意。
And Hannah answered and said, No, my lord, I am a woman of a sorrowful spirit: I have drunk neither wine nor strong drink, but have poured out my soul before the LORD.

1:16    不要將婢女看作不正經的女子。我因被人激動，愁苦太多，所以祈求到如今。
Count not thine handmaid for a daughter of Belial: for out of the abundance of my complaint and grief have I spoken hitherto.

1:17    以利說，你可以平平安安地回去。願以色列的神允准你向他所求的。
Then Eli answered and said, Go in peace: and the God of Israel grant thee thy petition that thou hast asked of him.

1:18    哈拿說，願婢女在你眼前蒙恩。於是婦人走去吃飯，面上再不帶愁容了。
And she said, Let thine handmaid find grace in thy sight. So the woman went her way, and did eat, and her countenance was no more sad.

1:19    次日清早，他們起來，在耶和華面前敬拜，就回拉瑪。到了家裡，以利加拿和妻哈拿同房，耶和華顧念哈拿，
And they rose up in the morning early, and worshipped before the LORD, and returned, and came to their house to Ramah: and Elkanah knew Hannah his wife; and the LORD remembered her.

1:20    哈拿就懷孕。日期滿足，生了一個兒子，給他起名叫撒母耳，說，這是我從耶和華那裡求來的。
Wherefore it came to pass, when the time was come about after Hannah had conceived, that she bare a son, and called his name Samuel, saying, Because I have asked him of the LORD.

1:21    以利加拿和他全家都上示羅去，要向耶和華獻年祭，並還所許的願。
And the man Elkanah, and all his house, went up to offer unto the LORD the yearly sacrifice, and his vow.

1:22    哈拿卻沒有上去，對丈夫說，等孩子斷了奶，我便帶他上去朝見耶和華，使他永遠住在那裡。
But Hannah went not up; for she said unto her husband, I will not go up until the child be weaned, and then I will bring him, that he may appear before the LORD, and there abide for ever.

1:23    她丈夫以利加拿說，就隨你的意行吧。可以等兒子斷了奶。但願耶和華應驗他的話。於是婦人在家裡乳養兒子，直到斷了奶。
And Elkanah her husband said unto her, Do what seemeth thee good; tarry until thou have weaned him; only the LORD establish his word. So the woman abode, and gave her son suck until she weaned him.

1:24    既斷了奶，就把孩子帶上示羅，到了耶和華的殿。又帶了三隻公牛，一伊法細面，一皮袋酒。那時孩子還小。
And when she had weaned him, she took him up with her, with three bullocks, and one ephah of flour, and a bottle of wine, and brought him unto the house of the LORD in Shiloh: and the child was young.

1:25    宰了一隻公牛，就領孩子到以利面前。
And they slew a bullock, and brought the child to Eli.

1:26    婦人說，主阿，我敢在你面前起誓，從前在你這裡站著祈求耶和華的那婦人，就是我。
And she said, Oh my lord, as thy soul liveth, my lord, I am the woman that stood by thee here, praying unto the LORD.

1:27    我祈求為要得這孩子。耶和華已將我所求的賜給我了。
For this child I prayed; and the LORD hath given me my petition which I asked of him:

1:28    所以，我將這孩子歸與耶和華，使他終身歸與耶和華。於是在那裡敬拜耶和華。
Therefore also I have lent him to the LORD; as long as he liveth he shall be lent to the LORD. And he worshipped the LORD there.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


2:1    哈拿禱告說，我的心因耶和華快樂。我的角因耶和華高舉。我的口向仇敵張開。我因耶和華的救恩歡欣。
And Hannah prayed, and said, My heart rejoiceth in the LORD, mine horn is exalted in the LORD: my mouth is enlarged over mine enemies; because I rejoice in thy salvation.

2:2    只有耶和華為聖。除他以外沒有可比的，也沒有磐石像我們的神。
There is none holy as the LORD: for there is none beside thee: neither is there any rock like our God.

2:3    人不要誇口說驕傲的話，也不要出狂妄的言語。因耶和華是大有智識的神，人的行為被他衡量。
Talk no more so exceeding proudly; let not arrogancy come out of your mouth: for the LORD is a God of knowledge, and by him actions are weighed.

2:4    勇士的弓都已折斷。跌倒的人以力量束腰。
The bows of the mighty men are broken, and they that stumbled are girded with strength.

2:5    素來飽足的，反作用人求食。飢餓的，再不飢餓。不生育的，生了七個兒子。多有兒女的，反倒衰微。
They that were full have hired out themselves for bread; and they that were hungry ceased: so that the barren hath born seven; and she that hath many children is waxed feeble.



2:6    耶和華使人死，也使人活，使人下陰間，也使人往上升。
The LORD killeth, and maketh alive: he bringeth down to the grave, and bringeth up.

2:7    他使人貧窮，也使人富足，使人卑微，也使人高貴。
The LORD maketh poor, and maketh rich: he bringeth low, and lifteth up.

2:8    他從灰塵裡抬舉貧寒人，從糞堆中提拔窮乏人，使他們與王子同坐，得著榮耀的座位。地的柱子屬於耶和華。他將世界立在其上。
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth up the beggar from the dunghill, to set them among princes, and to make them inherit the throne of glory: for the pillars of the earth are the LORD's, and he hath set the world upon them.

2:9    他必保護聖民的腳步，使惡人在黑暗中寂然不動。人都不能靠力量得勝。
He will keep the feet of his saints, and the wicked shall be silent in darkness; for by strength shall no man prevail.

2:10    與耶和華爭競的，必被打碎。耶和華必從天上以雷攻擊他，必審判地極的人，將力量賜與所立的王，高舉受膏者的角。
The adversaries of the LORD shall be broken to pieces; out of heaven shall he thunder upon them: the LORD shall judge the ends of the earth; and he shall give strength unto his king, and exalt the horn of his anointed.

2:11    以利加拿往拉瑪回家去了。那孩子在祭司以利面前事奉耶和華。
And Elkanah went to Ramah to his house. And the child did minister unto the LORD before Eli the priest.

2:12    以利的兩個兒子是惡人，不認識耶和華。
Now the sons of Eli were sons of Belial; they knew not the LORD.

2:13    這二祭司待百姓是這樣的規矩，凡有人獻祭，正煮肉的時候，祭司的僕人就來，手拿三齒的叉子，
And the priests' custom with the people was, that, when any man offered sacrifice, the priest's servant came, while the flesh was in seething, with a fleshhook of three teeth in his hand;

2:14    將叉子往罐裡，或鼎裡，或釜裡，或鍋裡一插，插上來的肉，祭司都取了去。凡上到示羅的以色列人，他們都是這樣看待。
And he struck it into the pan, or kettle, or caldron, or pot; all that the fleshhook brought up the priest took for himself. So they did in Shiloh unto all the Israelites that came thither.

2:15    又在未燒脂油以前，祭司的僕人就來對獻祭的人說，將肉給祭司，叫他烤吧。他不要煮過的，要生的。
Also before they burnt the fat, the priest's servant came, and said to the man that sacrificed, Give flesh to roast for the priest; for he will not have sodden flesh of thee, but raw.

2:16    獻祭的人若說，必須先燒脂油，然後你可以隨意取肉。僕人就說，你立時給我，不然我便搶去。
And if any man said unto him, Let them not fail to burn the fat presently, and then take as much as thy soul desireth; then he would answer him, Nay; but thou shalt give it me now: and if not, I will take it by force.

2:17    如此，這二少年人的罪在耶和華面前甚重了，因為他們藐視耶和華的祭物（或作他們使人厭棄給耶和華獻祭）。
Wherefore the sin of the young men was very great before the LORD: for men abhorred the offering of the LORD.

2:18    那時，撒母耳還是孩子，穿著細麻布的以弗得，侍立在耶和華面前。
But Samuel ministered before the LORD, being a child, girded with a linen ephod.

2:19    他母親每年為他作一件小外袍，同著丈夫上來獻年祭的時候帶來給他。
Moreover his mother made him a little coat, and brought it to him from year to year, when she came up with her husband to offer the yearly sacrifice.

2:20    以利為以利加拿和他的妻祝福，說，願耶和華由這婦人再賜你後裔，代替你從耶和華求來的孩子。他們就回本鄉去了。
And Eli blessed Elkanah and his wife, and said, The LORD give thee seed of this woman for the loan which is lent to the LORD. And they went unto their own home.

2:21    耶和華眷顧哈拿，她就懷孕生了三個兒子，兩個女兒。那孩子撒母耳在耶和華面前漸漸長大。
And the LORD visited Hannah, so that she conceived, and bare three sons and two daughters. And the child Samuel grew before the LORD.

2:22    以利年甚老邁，聽見他兩個兒子待以色列眾人的事，又聽見他們與會幕門前伺候的婦人苟合，
Now Eli was very old, and heard all that his sons did unto all Israel; and how they lay with the women that assembled at the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

2:23    他就對他們說，你們為何行這樣的事呢。我從這眾百姓聽見你們的惡行。
And he said unto them, Why do ye such things? for I hear of your evil dealings by all this people.

2:24    我兒阿，不可這樣。我聽見你們的風聲不好，你們使耶和華的百姓犯了罪。
Nay, my sons; for it is no good report that I hear: ye make the LORD's people to transgress.

2:25    人若得罪人，有士師審判他。人若得罪耶和華，誰能為他祈求呢。然而他們還是不聽父親的話，因為耶和華想要殺他們。
If one man sin against another, the judge shall judge him: but if a man sin against the LORD, who shall intreat for him? Notwithstanding they hearkened not unto the voice of their father, because the LORD would slay them.

2:26    孩子撒母耳漸漸長大，耶和華與人越發喜愛他。
And the child Samuel grew on, and was in favour both with the LORD, and also with men.

2:27    有神人來見以利，對他說，耶和華如此說，你祖父在埃及法老家作奴僕的時候，我不是向他們顯現嗎。
And there came a man of God unto Eli, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Did I plainly appear unto the house of thy father, when they were in Egypt in Pharaoh's house?

2:28    在以色列眾支派中，我不是揀選人作我的祭司，使他燒香，在我壇上獻祭，在我面前穿以弗得，又將以色列人所獻的火祭都賜給你父家嗎。
And did I choose him out of all the tribes of Israel to be my priest, to offer upon mine altar, to burn incense, to wear an ephod before me? and did I give unto the house of thy father all the offerings made by fire of the children of Israel?

2:29    我所吩咐獻在我居所的祭物，你們為何踐踏。尊重你的兒子過於尊重我，將我民以色列所獻美好的祭物肥己呢。
Wherefore kick ye at my sacrifice and at mine offering, which I have commanded in my habitation; and honourest thy sons above me, to make yourselves fat with the chiefest of all the offerings of Israel my people?

2:30    因此，耶和華以色列的神說，我曾說，你和你父家必永遠行在我面前。現在我卻說，決不容你們這樣行。因為尊重我的，我必重看他。藐視我的，他必被輕視。
Wherefore the LORD God of Israel saith, I said indeed that thy house, and the house of thy father, should walk before me for ever: but now the LORD saith, Be it far from me; for them that honour me I will honour, and they that despise me shall be lightly esteemed.

2:31    日子必到，我要折斷你的膀臂和你父家的膀臂，使你家中沒有一個老年人。
Behold, the days come, that I will cut off thine arm, and the arm of thy father's house, that there shall not be an old man in thine house.

2:32    在神使以色列人享福的時候，你必看見我居所的敗落。在你家中必永遠沒有一個老年人。
And thou shalt see an enemy in my habitation, in all the wealth which God shall give Israel: and there shall not be an old man in thine house for ever.

2:33    我必不從我壇前滅盡你家中的人。那未滅的必使你眼目乾癟，心中憂傷。你家中所生的人都必死在中年。
And the man of thine, whom I shall not cut off from mine altar, shall be to consume thine eyes, and to grieve thine heart: and all the increase of thine house shall die in the flower of their age.

2:34    你的兩個兒子何弗尼，非尼哈所遭遇的事可作你的證據，他們二人必一日同死。
And this shall be a sign unto thee, that shall come upon thy two sons, on Hophni and Phinehas; in one day they shall die both of them.

2:35    我要為自己立一個忠心的祭司。他必照我的心意而行。我要為他建立堅固的家。他必永遠行在我的受膏者面前。
And I will raise me up a faithful priest, that shall do according to that which is in mine heart and in my mind: and I will build him a sure house; and he shall walk before mine anointed for ever.

2:36    你家所剩下的人都必來叩拜他，求塊銀子，求個餅，說，求你賜我祭司的職分，好叫我得點餅吃。
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left in thine house shall come and crouch to him for a piece of silver and a morsel of bread, and shall say, Put me, I pray thee, into one of the priests' offices, that I may eat a piece of bread.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


3:1    童子撒母耳在以利面前事奉耶和華。當那些日子，耶和華的言語稀少，不常有默示。
And the child Samuel ministered unto the LORD before Eli. And the word of the LORD was precious in those days; there was no open vision.

3:2    一日，以利睡臥在自己的地方。他眼目昏花，看不分明。
And it came to pass at that time, when Eli was laid down in his place, and his eyes began to wax dim, that he could not see;

3:3    神的燈在神耶和華殿內約櫃那裡，還沒有熄滅，撒母耳已經睡了。
And ere the lamp of God went out in the temple of the LORD, where the ark of God was, and Samuel was laid down to sleep;

3:4    耶和華呼喚撒母耳。撒母耳說，我在這裡。
That the LORD called Samuel: and he answered, Here am I.

3:5    就跑到以利那裡，說，你呼喚我。我在這裡。以利回答說，我沒有呼喚你，你去睡吧。他就去睡了。
And he ran unto Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou calledst me. And he said, I called not; lie down again. And he went and lay down.

3:6    耶和華又呼喚撒母耳。撒母耳起來，到以利那裡，說，你呼喚我。我在這裡。以利回答說，我的兒，我沒有呼喚你，你去睡吧。
And the LORD called yet again, Samuel. And Samuel arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And he answered, I called not, my son; lie down again.

3:7    那時撒母耳還未認識耶和華，也未得耶和華的默示。
Now Samuel did not yet know the LORD, neither was the word of the LORD yet revealed unto him.

3:8    耶和華第三次呼喚撒母耳。撒母耳起來，到以利那裡，說，你又呼喚我。我在這裡。以利才明白是耶和華呼喚童子。
And the LORD called Samuel again the third time. And he arose and went to Eli, and said, Here am I; for thou didst call me. And Eli perceived that the LORD had called the child.

3:9    因此以利對撒母耳說，你仍去睡吧。若再呼喚你，你就說，耶和華阿，請說，僕人敬聽。撒母耳就去，仍睡在原處。
Therefore Eli said unto Samuel, Go, lie down: and it shall be, if he call thee, that thou shalt say, Speak, LORD; for thy servant heareth. So Samuel went and lay down in his place.

3:10    耶和華又來站著，像前三次呼喚說，撒母耳阿。撒母耳阿。撒母耳回答說，請說，僕人敬聽。
And the LORD came, and stood, and called as at other times, Samuel, Samuel. Then Samuel answered, Speak; for thy servant heareth.

3:11    耶和華對撒母耳說，我在以色列中必行一件事，叫聽見的人都必耳嗚。
And the LORD said to Samuel, Behold, I will do a thing in Israel, at which both the ears of every one that heareth it shall tingle.

3:12    我指著以利家所說的話，到了時候，我必始終應驗在以利身上。
In that day I will perform against Eli all things which I have spoken concerning his house: when I begin, I will also make an end.

3:13    我曾告訴他必永遠降罰與他的家，因他知道兒子作孽，自招咒詛，卻不禁止他們。
For I have told him that I will judge his house for ever for the iniquity which he knoweth; because his sons made themselves vile, and he restrained them not.

3:14    所以我向以利家起誓說，以利家的罪孽，雖獻祭奉禮物，永不能得贖去。
And therefore I have sworn unto the house of Eli, that the iniquity of Eli's house shall not be purged with sacrifice nor offering for ever.

3:15    撒母耳睡到天亮，就開了耶和華的殿門，不敢將默示告訴以利。
And Samuel lay until the morning, and opened the doors of the house of the LORD. And Samuel feared to shew Eli the vision.

3:16    以利呼喚撒母耳說，我兒撒母耳阿。撒母耳回答說，我在這裡。
Then Eli called Samuel, and said, Samuel, my son. And he answered, Here am I.

3:17    以利說，耶和華對你說什麼，你不要向我隱瞞。你若將神對你所說的隱瞞一句，願他重重地降罰與你。
And he said, What is the thing that the LORD hath said unto thee? I pray thee hide it not from me: God do so to thee, and more also, if thou hide any thing from me of all the things that he said unto thee.

3:18    撒母耳就把一切話都告訴了以利，並沒有隱瞞。以利說，這是出於耶和華，願他憑自己的意旨而行。
And Samuel told him every whit, and hid nothing from him. And he said, It is the LORD: let him do what seemeth him good.

3:19    撒母耳長大了，耶和華與他同在，使他所說的話一句都不落空。
And Samuel grew, and the LORD was with him, and did let none of his words fall to the ground.

3:20    從但到別是巴所有的以色列人，都知道耶和華立撒母耳為先知。
And all Israel from Dan even to Beersheba knew that Samuel was established to be a prophet of the LORD.

3:21    耶和華又在示羅顯現。因為耶和華將自己的話默示撒母耳，撒母耳就把這話傳遍以色列地。
And the LORD appeared again in Shiloh: for the LORD revealed himself to Samuel in Shiloh by the word of the LORD.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


4:1    以色列人出去與非利士人打仗，安營在以便以謝。非利士人安營在亞弗。
And the word of Samuel came to all Israel. Now Israel went out against the Philistines to battle, and pitched beside Ebenezer: and the Philistines pitched in Aphek.

4:2    非利士人向以色列人擺陣。兩軍交戰的時候，以色列人敗在非利士人面前。非利士人在戰場上殺了他們的軍兵約有四千人。
And the Philistines put themselves in array against Israel: and when they joined battle, Israel was smitten before the Philistines: and they slew of the army in the field about four thousand men.

4:3    百姓回到營裡，以色列的長老說，耶和華今日為何使我們敗在非利士人面前呢。我們不如將耶和華的約櫃從示羅抬到我們這裡來，好在我們中間救我們脫離敵人的手。
And when the people were come into the camp, the elders of Israel said, Wherefore hath the LORD smitten us to day before the Philistines? Let us fetch the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of Shiloh unto us, that, when it cometh among us, it may save us out of the hand of our enemies.

4:4    於是百姓打發人到示羅，從那裡將坐在二基路伯上萬軍之耶和華的約櫃抬來。以利的兩個兒子何弗尼，非尼哈與神的約櫃同來。
So the people sent to Shiloh, that they might bring from thence the ark of the covenant of the LORD of hosts, which dwelleth between the cherubims: and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were there with the ark of the covenant of God.

4:5    耶和華的約櫃到了營中，以色列眾人就大聲歡呼，地便震動。
And when the ark of the covenant of the LORD came into the camp, all Israel shouted with a great shout, so that the earth rang again.

4:6    非利士人聽見歡呼的聲音，就說，在希伯來人營裡大聲歡呼，是什麼緣故呢。隨後就知道耶和華的約櫃到了營中。
And when the Philistines heard the noise of the shout, they said, What meaneth the noise of this great shout in the camp of the Hebrews? And they understood that the ark of the LORD was come into the camp.

4:7    非利士人就懼怕起來，說，有神到了他們營中。又說，我們有禍了。向來不曾有這樣的事。
And the Philistines were afraid, for they said, God is come into the camp. And they said, Woe unto us! for there hath not been such a thing heretofore.

4:8    我們有禍了。誰能救我們脫離這些大能之神的手呢。從前在曠野用各樣災殃擊打埃及人的，就是這些神。
Woe unto us! who shall deliver us out of the hand of these mighty Gods? these are the Gods that smote the Egyptians with all the plagues in the wilderness.

4:9    非利士人哪，你們要剛強，要作大丈夫，免得作希伯來人的奴僕，如同他們作你們的奴僕一樣。你們要作大丈夫，與他們爭戰。
Be strong, and quit yourselves like men, O ye Philistines, that ye be not servants unto the Hebrews, as they have been to you: quit yourselves like men, and fight.

4:10    非利士人和以色列人打仗，以色列人敗了，各向各家奔逃，被殺的人甚多，以色列的步兵仆倒了三萬。
And the Philistines fought, and Israel was smitten, and they fled every man into his tent: and there was a very great slaughter; for there fell of Israel thirty thousand footmen.

4:11    神的約櫃被擄去，以利的兩個兒子何弗尼，非尼哈也都被殺了。
And the ark of God was taken; and the two sons of Eli, Hophni and Phinehas, were slain.

4:12    當日，有一個便雅憫人從陣上逃跑，衣服撕裂，頭蒙灰塵，來到示羅。
And there ran a man of Benjamin out of the army, and came to Shiloh the same day with his clothes rent, and with earth upon his head.

4:13    到了的時候，以利正在道旁坐在自己的位上觀望，為神的約櫃心裡擔憂。那人進城報信，合城的人就都呼喊起來。
And when he came, lo, Eli sat upon a seat by the wayside watching: for his heart trembled for the ark of God. And when the man came into the city, and told it, all the city cried out.

4:14    以利聽見呼喊的聲音就問說，這喧囔是什麼緣故呢。那人急忙來報信給以利。
And when Eli heard the noise of the crying, he said, What meaneth the noise of this tumult? And the man came in hastily, and told Eli.

4:15    那時以利九十八歲了，眼目發直，不能看見。
Now Eli was ninety and eight years old; and his eyes were dim, that he could not see.

4:16    那人對以利說，我是從陣上來的，今日我從陣上逃回。以利說，我兒，事情怎樣。
And the man said unto Eli, I am he that came out of the army, and I fled to day out of the army. And he said, What is there done, my son?



4:17    報信的回答說，以色列人在非利士人面前逃跑，民中被殺的甚多。你的兩個兒子何弗尼，非尼哈也都死了，並且神的約櫃被擄去。
And the messenger answered and said, Israel is fled before the Philistines, and there hath been also a great slaughter among the people, and thy two sons also, Hophni and Phinehas, are dead, and the ark of God is taken.

4:18    他一提神的約櫃，以利就從他的位上往後跌倒，在門旁折斷頸項而死。因為他年紀老邁，身體沉重。以利作以色列的士師四十年。
And it came to pass, when he made mention of the ark of God, that he fell from off the seat backward by the side of the gate, and his neck brake, and he died: for he was an old man, and heavy. And he had judged Israel forty years.

4:19    以利的兒婦，非尼哈的妻懷孕將到產期，她聽見神的約櫃被擄去，公公和丈夫都死了，就猛然疼痛，曲身生產。
And his daughter in law, Phinehas' wife, was with child, near to be delivered: and when she heard the tidings that the ark of God was taken, and that her father in law and her husband were dead, she bowed herself and travailed; for her pains came upon her.

4:20    將要死的時候，旁邊站著的婦人們對她說，不要怕。你生了男孩子了。她卻不回答，也不放在心上。
And about the time of her death the women that stood by her said unto her, Fear not; for thou hast born a son. But she answered not, neither did she regard it.

4:21    她給孩子起名叫以迦博，說，榮耀離開以色列了。這是因神的約櫃被擄去，又因她公公和丈夫都死了。
And she named the child Ichabod, saying, The glory is departed from Israel: because the ark of God was taken, and because of her father in law and her husband.

4:22    她又說，榮耀離開以色列，因為神的約櫃被擄去了。
And she said, The glory is departed from Israel: for the ark of God is taken.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


5:1    非利士人將神的約櫃從以便以謝抬到亞實突。
And the Philistines took the ark of God, and brought it from Ebenezer unto Ashdod.

5:2    非利士人將神的約櫃抬進大袞廟，放在大袞的旁邊。
When the Philistines took the ark of God, they brought it into the house of Dagon, and set it by Dagon.

5:3    次日清早，亞實突人起來，見大袞仆倒在耶和華的約櫃前，臉伏於地，就把大袞仍立在原處。
And when they of Ashdod arose early on the morrow, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the earth before the ark of the LORD. And they took Dagon, and set him in his place again.

5:4    又次日清早起來，見大袞仆倒在耶和華的約櫃前，臉伏於地，並且大袞的頭和兩手都在門檻上折斷，只剩下大袞的殘體。
And when they arose early on the morrow morning, behold, Dagon was fallen upon his face to the ground before the ark of the LORD; and the head of Dagon and both the palms of his hands were cut off upon the threshold; only the stump of Dagon was left to him.

5:5    因此，大袞的祭司和一切進亞實突，大袞廟的人都不踏大袞廟的門檻，直到今日。
Therefore neither the priests of Dagon, nor any that come into Dagon's house, tread on the threshold of Dagon in Ashdod unto this day.

5:6    耶和華的手重重加在亞實突人身上，敗壞他們，使他們生痔瘡。亞實突和亞實突的四境都是如此。
But the hand of the LORD was heavy upon them of Ashdod, and he destroyed them, and smote them with emerods, even Ashdod and the coasts thereof.

5:7    亞實突人見這光景，就說，以色列神的約櫃不可留在我們這裡，因為他的手重重加在我們和我們神大袞的身上。
And when the men of Ashdod saw that it was so, they said, The ark of the God of Israel shall not abide with us: for his hand is sore upon us, and upon Dagon our god.

5:8    就打發人去請非利士的眾首領來聚集，問他們說，我們向以色列神的約櫃應當怎樣行呢。他們回答說，可以將以色列神的約櫃運到迦特去。於是將以色列神的約櫃運到那裡去。
They sent therefore and gathered all the lords of the Philistines unto them, and said, What shall we do with the ark of the God of Israel? And they answered, Let the ark of the God of Israel be carried about unto Gath. And they carried the ark of the God of Israel about thither.

5:9    運到之後，耶和華的手攻擊那城，使那城的人大大驚慌，無論大小都生痔瘡。
And it was so, that, after they had carried it about, the hand of the LORD was against the city with a very great destruction: and he smote the men of the city, both small and great, and they had emerods in their secret parts.

5:10    他們就把神的約櫃送到以革倫。神的約櫃到了，以革倫人就喊囔起來說，他們將以色列神的約櫃運到我們這裡，要害我們和我們的眾民。
Therefore they sent the ark of God to Ekron. And it came to pass, as the ark of God came to Ekron, that the Ekronites cried out, saying, They have brought about the ark of the God of Israel to us, to slay us and our people.

5:11    於是打發人去請非利士的眾首領來，說，願你們將以色列神的約櫃送回原處，免得害了我們和我們的眾民。原來神的手重重攻擊那城，城中的人有因驚慌而死的。
So they sent and gathered together all the lords of the Philistines, and said, Send away the ark of the God of Israel, and let it go again to his own place, that it slay us not, and our people: for there was a deadly destruction throughout all the city; the hand of God was very heavy there.

5:12    未曾死的人都生了痔瘡。合城呼號，聲音上達於天。
And the men that died not were smitten with the emerods: and the cry of the city went up to heaven.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


6:1    耶和華的約櫃在非利士人之地七個月。
And the ark of the LORD was in the country of the Philistines seven months.

6:2    非利士人將祭司和占卜的聚了來，問他們說，我們向耶和華的約櫃應當怎樣行。請指示我們用何法將約櫃送回原處。
And the Philistines called for the priests and the diviners, saying, What shall we do to the ark of the LORD? tell us wherewith we shall send it to his place.

6:3    他們說，若要將以色列神的約櫃送回去，不可空空地送去，必要給他獻賠罪的禮物，然後你們可得痊癒，並知道他的手為何不離開你們。
And they said, If ye send away the ark of the God of Israel, send it not empty; but in any wise return him a trespass offering: then ye shall be healed, and it shall be known to you why his hand is not removed from you.

6:4    非利士人說，應當用什麼獻為賠罪的禮物呢。他們回答說，當照非利士首領的數目，用五個金痔瘡，五個金老鼠，因為在你們眾人和你們首領的身上都是一樣的災。
Then said they, What shall be the trespass offering which we shall return to him? They answered, Five golden emerods, and five golden mice, according to the number of the lords of the Philistines: for one plague was on you all, and on your lords.

6:5    所以當製造你們痔瘡的像和毀壞你們田地老鼠的像，並要歸榮耀給以色列的神，或者他向你們和你們的神，並你們的田地，把手放輕些。
Wherefore ye shall make images of your emerods, and images of your mice that mar the land; and ye shall give glory unto the God of Israel: peradventure he will lighten his hand from off you, and from off your gods, and from off your land.

6:6    你們為何硬著心像埃及人和法老一樣呢。神在埃及人中間行奇事，埃及人豈不釋放以色列人，他們就去了嗎。
Wherefore then do ye harden your hearts, as the Egyptians and Pharaoh hardened their hearts? when he had wrought wonderfully among them, did they not let the people go, and they departed?

6:7    現在你們應當造一輛新車，將兩隻未曾負軛有乳的母牛套在車上，使牛犢回家去，離開母牛。
Now therefore make a new cart, and take two milch kine, on which there hath come no yoke, and tie the kine to the cart, and bring their calves home from them:

6:8    把耶和華的約櫃放在車上，將所獻賠罪的金物裝在匣子裡，放在櫃旁，將櫃送去。
And take the ark of the LORD, and lay it upon the cart; and put the jewels of gold, which ye return him for a trespass offering, in a coffer by the side thereof; and send it away, that it may go.

6:9    你們要看看，車若直行以色列的境界到伯示麥去，這大災就是耶和華降在我們身上的。若不然，便可以知道不是他的手擊打我們，是我們偶然遇見的。
And see, if it goeth up by the way of his own coast to Bethshemesh, then he hath done us this great evil: but if not, then we shall know that it is not his hand that smote us: it was a chance that happened to us.

6:10    非利士人就這樣行，將兩隻有乳的母牛套在車上，將牛犢關在家裡，
And the men did so; and took two milch kine, and tied them to the cart, and shut up their calves at home:

6:11    把耶和華的約櫃和裝金老鼠並金痔瘡像的匣子都放在車上。
And they laid the ark of the LORD upon the cart, and the coffer with the mice of gold and the images of their emerods.

6:12    牛直行大道，往伯示麥去，一面走一面叫，不偏左右。非利士的首領跟在後面，直到伯示麥的境界。
And the kine took the straight way to the way of Bethshemesh, and went along the highway, lowing as they went, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left; and the lords of the Philistines went after them unto the border of Bethshemesh.

6:13    伯示麥人正在平原收割麥子，舉目看見約櫃，就歡喜了。
And they of Bethshemesh were reaping their wheat harvest in the valley: and they lifted up their eyes, and saw the ark, and rejoiced to see it.

6:14    車到了伯示麥人約書亞的田間，就站住了。在那裡有一塊大磐石，他們把車劈了，將兩隻母牛獻給耶和華為燔祭。
And the cart came into the field of Joshua, a Bethshemite, and stood there, where there was a great stone: and they clave the wood of the cart, and offered the kine a burnt offering unto the LORD.

6:15    利未人將耶和華的約櫃和裝金物的匣子拿下來，放在大磐石上。當日伯示麥人將燔祭和平安祭獻給耶和華。
And the Levites took down the ark of the LORD, and the coffer that was with it, wherein the jewels of gold were, and put them on the great stone: and the men of Bethshemesh offered burnt offerings and sacrificed sacrifices the same day unto the LORD.

6:16    非利士人的五個首領看見，當日就回以革倫去了。
And when the five lords of the Philistines had seen it, they returned to Ekron the same day.

6:17    非利士人獻給耶和華作賠罪的金痔瘡像，就是這些，一個是為亞實突，一個是為迦薩，一個是為亞實基倫，一個是為迦特，一個是為以革倫。
And these are the golden emerods which the Philistines returned for a trespass offering unto the LORD; for Ashdod one, for Gaza one, for Askelon one, for Gath one, for Ekron one;

6:18    金老鼠的數目是照非利士五個首領的城邑，就是堅固的城邑和鄉村，以及大磐石。這磐石是放耶和華約櫃的，到今日還在伯示麥人約書亞的田間。
And the golden mice, according to the number of all the cities of the Philistines belonging to the five lords, both of fenced cities, and of country villages, even unto the great stone of Abel, whereon they set down the ark of the LORD: which stone remaineth unto this day in the field of Joshua, the Bethshemite.

6:19    耶和華因伯示麥人擅觀他的約櫃，就擊殺了他們七十人。那時有五萬人在那裡（原文作七十人加五萬人）。百姓因耶和華大大擊殺他們，就哀哭了。
And he smote the men of Bethshemesh, because they had looked into the ark of the LORD, even he smote of the people fifty thousand and threescore and ten men: and the people lamented, because the LORD had smitten many of the people with a great slaughter.



6:20    伯示麥人說，誰能在耶和華這聖潔的神面前侍立呢。這約櫃可以從我們這裡送到誰那裡去呢。
And the men of Bethshemesh said, Who is able to stand before this holy LORD God? and to whom shall he go up from us?

6:21    於是打發人去見基列耶琳的居民，說，非利士人將耶和華的約櫃送回來了，你們下來將約櫃接到你們那裡去吧。
And they sent messengers to the inhabitants of Kirjathjearim, saying, The Philistines have brought again the ark of the LORD; come ye down, and fetch it up to you.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


7:1    基列耶琳人就下來，將耶和華的約櫃接上去，放在山上亞比拿達的家中，分派他兒子以利亞撒看守耶和華的約櫃。
And the men of Kirjathjearim came, and fetched up the ark of the LORD, and brought it into the house of Abinadab in the hill, and sanctified Eleazar his son to keep the ark of the LORD.

7:2    約櫃在基列耶琳許久。過了二十年，以色列全家都傾向耶和華。
And it came to pass, while the ark abode in Kirjathjearim, that the time was long; for it was twenty years: and all the house of Israel lamented after the LORD.

7:3    撒母耳對以色列全家說，你們若一心歸順耶和華，就要把外邦的神和亞斯她錄從你們中間除掉，專心歸向耶和華，單單地事奉他。他必救你們脫離非利士人的手。
And Samuel spake unto all the house of Israel, saying, If ye do return unto the LORD with all your hearts, then put away the strange gods and Ashtaroth from among you, and prepare your hearts unto the LORD, and serve him only: and he will deliver you out of the hand of the Philistines.

7:4    以色列人就除掉諸巴力和亞斯她錄，單單地事奉耶和華。
Then the children of Israel did put away Baalim and Ashtaroth, and served the LORD only.

7:5    撒母耳說，要使以色列眾人聚集在米斯巴，我好為你們禱告耶和華。
And Samuel said, Gather all Israel to Mizpeh, and I will pray for you unto the LORD.

7:6    他們就聚集在米斯巴，打水澆在耶和華面前，當日禁食，說，我們得罪了耶和華。於是撒母耳在米斯巴審判以色列人。
And they gathered together to Mizpeh, and drew water, and poured it out before the LORD, and fasted on that day, and said there, We have sinned against the LORD. And Samuel judged the children of Israel in Mizpeh.

7:7    非利士人聽見以色列人聚集在米斯巴，非利士的首領就上來要攻擊以色列人。以色列人聽見，就懼怕非利士人。
And when the Philistines heard that the children of Israel were gathered together to Mizpeh, the lords of the Philistines went up against Israel. And when the children of Israel heard it, they were afraid of the Philistines.

7:8    以色列人對撒母耳說，願你不住地為我們呼求耶和華我們的神，救我們脫離非利士人的手。
And the children of Israel said to Samuel, Cease not to cry unto the LORD our God for us, that he will save us out of the hand of the Philistines.



7:9    撒母耳就把一隻吃奶的羊羔獻與耶和華作全牲的燔祭，為以色列人呼求耶和華。耶和華就應允他。
And Samuel took a sucking lamb, and offered it for a burnt offering wholly unto the LORD: and Samuel cried unto the LORD for Israel; and the LORD heard him.

7:10    撒母耳正獻燔祭的時候，非利士人前來要與以色列人爭戰。當日，耶和華大發雷聲，驚亂非利士人，他們就敗在以色列人面前。
And as Samuel was offering up the burnt offering, the Philistines drew near to battle against Israel: but the LORD thundered with a great thunder on that day upon the Philistines, and discomfited them; and they were smitten before Israel.

7:11    以色列人從米斯巴出來，追趕非利士人，擊殺他們，直到伯甲的下邊。
And the men of Israel went out of Mizpeh, and pursued the Philistines, and smote them, until they came under Bethcar.

7:12    撒母耳將一塊石頭立在米斯巴和善的中間，給石頭起名叫以便以謝，說，到如今耶和華都幫助我們。
Then Samuel took a stone, and set it between Mizpeh and Shen, and called the name of it Ebenezer, saying, Hitherto hath the LORD helped us.

7:13    從此，非利士人就被制伏，不敢再入以色列人的境內。撒母耳作士師的時候，耶和華的手攻擊非利士人。
So the Philistines were subdued, and they came no more into the coast of Israel: and the hand of the LORD was against the Philistines all the days of Samuel.

7:14    非利士人所取以色列人的城邑，從以革倫直到迦特，都歸以色列人了。屬這些城的四境，以色列人也從非利士人手下收回。那時以色列人與亞摩利人和好。
And the cities which the Philistines had taken from Israel were restored to Israel, from Ekron even unto Gath; and the coasts thereof did Israel deliver out of the hands of the Philistines. And there was peace between Israel and the Amorites.

7:15    撒母耳平生作以色列的士師。
And Samuel judged Israel all the days of his life.

7:16    他每年巡行到伯特利，吉甲，米斯巴，在這幾處審判以色列人。
And he went from year to year in circuit to Bethel, and Gilgal, and Mizpeh, and judged Israel in all those places.

7:17    隨後回到拉瑪，因為他的家在那裡。也在那裡審判以色列人，且為耶和華築了一座壇。
And his return was to Ramah; for there was his house; and there he judged Israel; and there he built an altar unto the LORD.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


8:1    撒母耳年紀老邁，就立他兒子作以色列的士師。
And it came to pass, when Samuel was old, that he made his sons judges over Israel.

8:2    長子名叫約珥，次子名叫亞比亞。他們在別是巴作士師。
Now the name of his firstborn was Joel; and the name of his second, Abiah: they were judges in Beersheba.

8:3    他兒子不行他的道，貪圖財利，收受賄賂，屈枉正直。
And his sons walked not in his ways, but turned aside after lucre, and took bribes, and perverted judgment.

8:4    以色列的長老都聚集，來到拉瑪見撒母耳，
Then all the elders of Israel gathered themselves together, and came to Samuel unto Ramah,

8:5    對他說，你年紀老邁了，你兒子不行你的道。現在求你為我們立一個王治理我們，像列國一樣。
And said unto him, Behold, thou art old, and thy sons walk not in thy ways: now make us a king to judge us like all the nations.

8:6    撒母耳不喜悅他們說立一個王治理我們，他就禱告耶和華。
But the thing displeased Samuel, when they said, Give us a king to judge us. And Samuel prayed unto the LORD.

8:7    耶和華對撒母耳說，百姓向你說的一切話，你只管依從。因為他們不是厭棄你，乃是厭棄我，不要我作他們的王。
And the LORD said unto Samuel, Hearken unto the voice of the people in all that they say unto thee: for they have not rejected thee, but they have rejected me, that I should not reign over them.

8:8    自從我領他們出埃及到如今，他們常常離棄我，事奉別神。現在他們向你所行的，是照他們素來所行的。
According to all the works which they have done since the day that I brought them up out of Egypt even unto this day, wherewith they have forsaken me, and served other gods, so do they also unto thee.

8:9    故此你要依從他們的話，只是當警戒他們，告訴他們將來那王怎樣管轄他們。
Now therefore hearken unto their voice: howbeit yet protest solemnly unto them, and shew them the manner of the king that shall reign over them.

8:10    撒母耳將耶和華的話都傳給求他立王的百姓，說，
And Samuel told all the words of the LORD unto the people that asked of him a king.

8:11    管轄你們的王必這樣行，他必派你們的兒子為他趕車，跟馬，奔走在車前。
And he said, This will be the manner of the king that shall reign over you: He will take your sons, and appoint them for himself, for his chariots, and to be his horsemen; and some shall run before his chariots.

8:12    又派他們作千夫長，五十夫長，為他耕種田地，收割莊稼，打造軍器和車上的器械。
And he will appoint him captains over thousands, and captains over fifties; and will set them to ear his ground, and to reap his harvest, and to make his instruments of war, and instruments of his chariots.

8:13    必取你們的女兒為他製造香膏，作飯烤餅。
And he will take your daughters to be confectionaries, and to be cooks, and to be bakers.

8:14    也必取你們最好的田地，葡萄園，橄欖園賜給他的臣僕。
And he will take your fields, and your vineyards, and your oliveyards, even the best of them, and give them to his servants.

8:15    你們的糧食和葡萄園所出的，他必取十分之一給他的太監和臣僕。
And he will take the tenth of your seed, and of your vineyards, and give to his officers, and to his servants.

8:16    又必取你們的僕人婢女，健壯的少年人和你們的驢，供他的差役。
And he will take your menservants, and your maidservants, and your goodliest young men, and your asses, and put them to his work.

8:17    你們的羊群，他必取十分之一，你們也必作他的僕人。
He will take the tenth of your sheep: and ye shall be his servants.

8:18    那時你們必因所選的王哀求耶和華，耶和華卻不應允你們。
And ye shall cry out in that day because of your king which ye shall have chosen you; and the LORD will not hear you in that day.

8:19    百姓竟不肯聽撒母耳的話，說，不然。我們定要一個王治理我們，
Nevertheless the people refused to obey the voice of Samuel; and they said, Nay; but we will have a king over us;

8:20    使我們像列國一樣，有王治理我們，統領我們，為我們爭戰。
That we also may be like all the nations; and that our king may judge us, and go out before us, and fight our battles.

8:21    撒母耳聽見百姓這一切話，就將這話陳明在耶和華面前。
And Samuel heard all the words of the people, and he rehearsed them in the ears of the LORD.

8:22    耶和華對撒母耳說，你只管依從他們的話，為他們立王。撒母耳對以色列人說，你們各歸各城去吧。
And the LORD said to Samuel, Hearken unto their voice, and make them a king. And Samuel said unto the men of Israel, Go ye every man unto his city.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


9:1    有一個便雅憫人，名叫基士，是便雅憫人亞斐亞的玄孫，比歌拉的曾孫，洗羅的孫子，亞別的兒子，是個大能的勇士（或作大財主）。
Now there was a man of Benjamin, whose name was Kish, the son of Abiel, the son of Zeror, the son of Bechorath, the son of Aphiah, a Benjamite, a mighty man of power.

9:2    他有一個兒子，名叫掃羅，又健壯，又俊美，在以色列人中沒有一個能比他的。身體比眾民高過一頭。
And he had a son, whose name was Saul, a choice young man, and a goodly: and there was not among the children of Israel a goodlier person than he: from his shoulders and upward he was higher than any of the people.

9:3    掃羅的父親基士丟了幾頭驢，他就吩咐兒子掃羅說，你帶一個僕人去尋梢驢。
And the asses of Kish Saul's father were lost. And Kish said to Saul his son, Take now one of the servants with thee, and arise, go seek the asses.

9:4    掃羅就走過以法蓮山地，又過沙利沙地，都沒有找著。又過沙琳地，驢也不在那裡。又過便雅憫地，還沒有找著。
And he passed through mount Ephraim, and passed through the land of Shalisha, but they found them not: then they passed through the land of Shalim, and there they were not: and he passed through the land of the Benjamites, but they found them not.

9:5    到了蘇弗地，掃羅對跟隨他的僕人說，我們不如回去，恐怕我父親不為驢掛心，反為我們擔憂。
And when they were come to the land of Zuph, Saul said to his servant that was with him, Come, and let us return; lest my father leave caring for the asses, and take thought for us.

9:6    僕人說，這城裡有一位神人，是眾人所尊重的，凡他所說的全都應驗。我們不如往他那裡去，或者他能將我們當走的路指示我們。
And he said unto him, Behold now, there is in this city a man of God, and he is an honourable man; all that he saith cometh surely to pass: now let us go thither; peradventure he can shew us our way that we should go.

9:7    掃羅對僕人說，我們若去，有什麼可以送那人呢。我們囊中的食物都吃盡了，也沒有禮物可以送那神人，我們還有什麼沒有。
Then said Saul to his servant, But, behold, if we go, what shall we bring the man? for the bread is spent in our vessels, and there is not a present to bring to the man of God: what have we?

9:8    僕人回答掃羅說，我手裡有銀子一舍客勒的四分之一，可以送那神人，請他指示我們當走的路。
And the servant answered Saul again, and said, Behold, I have here at hand the fourth part of a shekel of silver: that will I give to the man of God, to tell us our way.

9:9    （從前以色列中，若有人去問神，就說，我們問先見去吧。現在稱為先知的，從前稱為先見。）
(Beforetime in Israel, when a man went to enquire of God, thus he spake, Come, and let us go to the seer: for he that is now called a Prophet was beforetime called a Seer.)

9:10    掃羅對僕人說，你說的是，我們可以去。於是他們往神人所住的城裡去了。
Then said Saul to his servant, Well said; come, let us go. So they went unto the city where the man of God was.

9:11    他們上坡要進城，就遇見幾個少年女子出來打水，問她們說，先見在這裡沒有。
And as they went up the hill to the city, they found young maidens going out to draw water, and said unto them, Is the seer here?

9:12    女子回答說，在這裡，他在你們前面。快去吧。他今日正到城裡，因為今日百姓要在邱壇獻祭。
And they answered them, and said, He is; behold, he is before you: make haste now, for he came to day to the city; for there is a sacrifice of the people to day in the high place:

9:13    在他還沒有上邱壇吃祭物之先，你們一進城必遇見他。因他未到，百姓不能吃，必等他先祝祭，然後請的客才吃。現在你們上去，這時候必遇見他。
As soon as ye be come into the city, ye shall straightway find him, before he go up to the high place to eat: for the people will not eat until he come, because he doth bless the sacrifice; and afterwards they eat that be bidden. Now therefore get you up; for about this time ye shall find him.

9:14    二人就上去。將進城的時候，撒母耳正迎著他們來，要上邱壇去。
And they went up into the city: and when they were come into the city, behold, Samuel came out against them, for to go up to the high place.

9:15    掃羅未到的前一日，耶和華已經指示撒母耳說，
Now the LORD had told Samuel in his ear a day before Saul came, saying,

9:16    明日這時候，我必使一個人從便雅憫地到你這裡來，你要膏他作我民以色列的君。他必救我民脫離非利士人的手。因我民的哀聲上達於我，我就眷顧他們。
To morrow about this time I will send thee a man out of the land of Benjamin, and thou shalt anoint him to be captain over my people Israel, that he may save my people out of the hand of the Philistines: for I have looked upon my people, because their cry is come unto me.

9:17    撒母耳看見掃羅的時候，耶和華對他說，看哪，這人就是我對你所說的，他必治理我的民。
And when Samuel saw Saul, the LORD said unto him, Behold the man whom I spake to thee of! this same shall reign over my people.

9:18    掃羅在城門裡走到撒母耳跟前，說，請告訴我，先見的寓所在哪裡。
Then Saul drew near to Samuel in the gate, and said, Tell me, I pray thee, where the seer's house is.

9:19    撒母耳回答說，我就是先見。你在我前面上邱壇去，因為你們今日必與我同席。明日早晨我送你去，將你心裡的事都告訴你。
And Samuel answered Saul, and said, I am the seer: go up before me unto the high place; for ye shall eat with me to day, and to morrow I will let thee go, and will tell thee all that is in thine heart.

9:20    至於你前三日所丟的那幾頭驢，你心裡不必掛念，已經找著了。以色列眾人所仰慕的是誰呢。不是仰慕你和你父的全家嗎。
And as for thine asses that were lost three days ago, set not thy mind on them; for they are found. And on whom is all the desire of Israel? Is it not on thee, and on all thy father's house?

9:21    掃羅說，我不是以色列支派中至小的便雅憫人嗎。我家不是便雅憫支派中至小的家嗎。你為何對我說這樣的話呢。
And Saul answered and said, Am not I a Benjamite, of the smallest of the tribes of Israel? and my family the least of all the families of the tribe of Benjamin? wherefore then speakest thou so to me?

9:22    撒母耳領掃羅和他僕人進了客堂，使他們在請來的客中坐首位。客約有三十個人。
And Samuel took Saul and his servant, and brought them into the parlour, and made them sit in the chiefest place among them that were bidden, which were about thirty persons.

9:23    撒母耳對廚役說，我交給你收存的那一分祭肉現在可以拿來。
And Samuel said unto the cook, Bring the portion which I gave thee, of which I said unto thee, Set it by thee.

9:24    廚役就把收存的腿拿來，擺在掃羅面前，撒母耳說，這是所留下的，放在你面前。吃吧。因我請百姓的時候，特意為你存留這肉到此時。當日，掃羅就與撒母耳同席。
And the cook took up the shoulder, and that which was upon it, and set it before Saul. And Samuel said, Behold that which is left! set it before thee, and eat: for unto this time hath it been kept for thee since I said, I have invited the people. So Saul did eat with Samuel that day.

9:25    眾人從邱壇下來進城，撒母耳和掃羅在房頂上說話。
And when they were come down from the high place into the city, Samuel communed with Saul upon the top of the house.

9:26    次日清早起來，黎明的時候，掃羅在房頂上。撒母耳呼叫他說，起來吧，我好送你回去。掃羅就起來，和撒母耳一同出去。
And they arose early: and it came to pass about the spring of the day, that Samuel called Saul to the top of the house, saying, Up, that I may send thee away. And Saul arose, and they went out both of them, he and Samuel, abroad.

9:27    二人下到城角，撒母耳對掃羅說，要吩咐僕人先走（僕人就先走了）。你且站在這裡，等我將神的話傳與你聽。
And as they were going down to the end of the city, Samuel said to Saul, Bid the servant pass on before us, (and he passed on), but stand thou still a while, that I may shew thee the word of God.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


10:1    撒母耳拿瓶膏油倒在掃羅的頭上，與他親嘴，說，這不是耶和華膏你作他產業的君嗎。
Then Samuel took a vial of oil, and poured it upon his head, and kissed him, and said, Is it not because the LORD hath anointed thee to be captain over his inheritance?

10:2    你今日與我離別之後，在便雅憫境內的洩撒，靠近拉結的墳墓，要遇見兩個人。他們必對你說，你去找的那幾頭驢已經找著了。現在你父親不為驢掛心，反為你擔憂，說，我為兒子怎麼才好呢？
When thou art departed from me to day, then thou shalt find two men by Rachel's sepulchre in the border of Benjamin at Zelzah; and they will say unto thee, The asses which thou wentest to seek are found: and, lo, thy father hath left the care of the asses, and sorroweth for you, saying, What shall I do for my son?

10:3    你從那裡往前行，到了他泊的橡樹那裡，必遇見三個往伯特利去拜神的人，一個帶著三隻山羊羔，一個帶著三個餅，一個帶著一皮袋酒。
Then shalt thou go on forward from thence, and thou shalt come to the plain of Tabor, and there shall meet thee three men going up to God to Bethel, one carrying three kids, and another carrying three loaves of bread, and another carrying a bottle of wine:

10:4    他們必問你安，給你兩個餅，你就從他們手中接過來。
And they will salute thee, and give thee two loaves of bread; which thou shalt receive of their hands.

10:5    此後你到神的山，在那裡有非利士人的防兵。你到了城的時候，必遇見一班先知從邱壇下來，前面有鼓瑟的，擊鼓的，吹笛的，彈琴的，他們都受感說話。
After that thou shalt come to the hill of God, where is the garrison of the Philistines: and it shall come to pass, when thou art come thither to the city, that thou shalt meet a company of prophets coming down from the high place with a psaltery, and a tabret, and a pipe, and a harp, before them; and they shall prophesy:

10:6    耶和華的靈必大大感動你，你就與他們一同受感說話。你要變為新人。
And the Spirit of the LORD will come upon thee, and thou shalt prophesy with them, and shalt be turned into another man.

10:7    這兆頭臨到你，你就可以趁時而作，因為神與你同在。
And let it be, when these signs are come unto thee, that thou do as occasion serve thee; for God is with thee.

10:8    你當在我以先下到吉甲，我也必下到那裡獻燔祭和平安祭。你要等候七日，等我到了那裡，指示你當行的事。
And thou shalt go down before me to Gilgal; and, behold, I will come down unto thee, to offer burnt offerings, and to sacrifice sacrifices of peace offerings: seven days shalt thou tarry, till I come to thee, and shew thee what thou shalt do.

10:9    掃羅轉身離別撒母耳，神就賜他一個新心。當日這一切兆頭都應驗了。
And it was so, that when he had turned his back to go from Samuel, God gave him another heart: and all those signs came to pass that day.

10:10    掃羅到了那山，有一班先知遇見他，神的靈大大感動他，他就在先知中受感說話。
And when they came thither to the hill, behold, a company of prophets met him; and the Spirit of God came upon him, and he prophesied among them.

10:11    素來認識掃羅的，看見他和先知一同受感說話，就彼此說，基士的兒子遇見什麼了。掃羅也列在先知中嗎。
And it came to pass, when all that knew him beforetime saw that, behold, he prophesied among the prophets, then the people said one to another, What is this that is come unto the son of Kish? Is Saul also among the prophets?

10:12    那地方有一個人說，這些人的父親是誰呢。此後有句俗語說，掃羅也列在先知中嗎。
And one of the same place answered and said, But who is their father? Therefore it became a proverb, Is Saul also among the prophets?

10:13    掃羅受感說話已畢，就上邱壇去了。
And when he had made an end of prophesying, he came to the high place.

10:14    掃羅的叔叔問掃羅和他僕人說，你們往哪裡去了。回答說，找驢去了。我們見沒有驢，就到了撒母耳那裡。
And Saul's uncle said unto him and to his servant, Whither went ye? And he said, To seek the asses: and when we saw that they were no where, we came to Samuel.

10:15    掃羅的叔叔說，請將撒母耳向你們所說的話告訴我。
And Saul's uncle said, Tell me, I pray thee, what Samuel said unto you.

10:16    掃羅對他叔叔說，他明明地告訴我們驢已經找著了。至於撒母耳所說的國事，掃羅卻沒有告訴叔叔。
And Saul said unto his uncle, He told us plainly that the asses were found. But of the matter of the kingdom, whereof Samuel spake, he told him not.

10:17    撒母耳將百姓招聚到米斯巴耶和華那裡，
And Samuel called the people together unto the LORD to Mizpeh;

10:18    對他們說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，我領你們以色列人出埃及，救你們脫離埃及人的手，又救你們脫離欺壓你們各國之人的手。
And said unto the children of Israel, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, I brought up Israel out of Egypt, and delivered you out of the hand of the Egyptians, and out of the hand of all kingdoms, and of them that oppressed you:

10:19    你們今日卻厭棄了救你們脫離一切災難的神，說，求你立一個王治理我們。現在你們應當按著支派，宗族都站在耶和華面前。
And ye have this day rejected your God, who himself saved you out of all your adversities and your tribulations; and ye have said unto him, Nay, but set a king over us. Now therefore present yourselves before the LORD by your tribes, and by your thousands.

10:20    於是，撒母耳使以色列眾支派近前來掣籤，就掣出便雅憫支派來。
And when Samuel had caused all the tribes of Israel to come near, the tribe of Benjamin was taken.

10:21    又使便雅憫支派按著宗族近前來，就掣出瑪特利族，從其中又掣出基士的兒子掃羅。眾人尋梢他卻尋不著，
When he had caused the tribe of Benjamin to come near by their families, the family of Matri was taken, and Saul the son of Kish was taken: and when they sought him, he could not be found.

10:22    就問耶和華說，那人到這裡來了沒有。耶和華說，他藏在器具中了。
Therefore they enquired of the LORD further, if the man should yet come thither. And the LORD answered, Behold, he hath hid himself among the stuff.

10:23    眾人就跑去從那裡領出他來。他站在百姓中間，身體比眾民高過一頭。
And they ran and fetched him thence: and when he stood among the people, he was higher than any of the people from his shoulders and upward.

10:24    撒母耳對眾民說，你們看耶和華所揀選的人，眾民中有可比他的嗎。眾民就大聲歡呼說，願王萬歲。
And Samuel said to all the people, See ye him whom the LORD hath chosen, that there is none like him among all the people? And all the people shouted, and said, God save the king.

10:25    撒母耳將國法對百姓說明，又記在書上，放在耶和華面前，然後遣散眾民，各回各家去了。
Then Samuel told the people the manner of the kingdom, and wrote it in a book, and laid it up before the LORD. And Samuel sent all the people away, every man to his house.

10:26    掃羅往基比亞回家去，有神感動的一群人跟隨他。
And Saul also went home to Gibeah; and there went with him a band of men, whose hearts God had touched.

10:27    但有些匪徒說，這人怎能救我們呢。就藐視他，沒有送他禮物。掃羅卻不理會。
But the children of Belial said, How shall this man save us? And they despised him, and brought him no presents. But he held his peace.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


11:1    亞捫人的王拿轄上來，對著基列雅比安營。雅比眾人對拿轄說，你與我們立約，我們就服事你。
Then Nahash the Ammonite came up, and encamped against Jabeshgilead: and all the men of Jabesh said unto Nahash, Make a covenant with us, and we will serve thee.

11:2    亞捫人拿轄說，你們若由我剜出你們各人的右眼，以此凌辱以色列眾人，我就與你們立約。
And Nahash the Ammonite answered them, On this condition will I make a covenant with you, that I may thrust out all your right eyes, and lay it for a reproach upon all Israel.

11:3    雅比的長老對他說，求你寬容我們七日，等我們打發人往以色列的全境去。若沒有人救我們，我們就出來歸順你。
And the elders of Jabesh said unto him, Give us seven days' respite, that we may send messengers unto all the coasts of Israel: and then, if there be no man to save us, we will come out to thee.

11:4    使者到了掃羅住的基比亞，將這話說給百姓聽，百姓就都放聲而哭。
Then came the messengers to Gibeah of Saul, and told the tidings in the ears of the people: and all the people lifted up their voices, and wept.

11:5    掃羅正從田間趕牛回來，問說，百姓為什麼哭呢。眾人將雅比人的話告訴他。
And, behold, Saul came after the herd out of the field; and Saul said, What aileth the people that they weep? And they told him the tidings of the men of Jabesh.

11:6    掃羅聽見這話，就被神的靈大大感動，甚是發怒。
And the Spirit of God came upon Saul when he heard those tidings, and his anger was kindled greatly.

11:7    他將一對牛切成塊子，託付使者傳送以色列的全境，說，凡不出來跟隨掃羅和撒母耳的，也必這樣切開他的牛。於是耶和華使百姓懼怕，他們就都出來，如同一人。
And he took a yoke of oxen, and hewed them in pieces, and sent them throughout all the coasts of Israel by the hands of messengers, saying, Whosoever cometh not forth after Saul and after Samuel, so shall it be done unto his oxen. And the fear of the LORD fell on the people, and they came out with one consent.

11:8    掃羅在比色數點他們，以色列人有三十萬，猶大人有三萬。
And when he numbered them in Bezek, the children of Israel were three hundred thousand, and the men of Judah thirty thousand.

11:9    眾人對那使者說，你們要回覆基列雅比人說，明日太陽近午的時候，你們必得解救。使者回去告訴雅比人，他們就歡喜了。
And they said unto the messengers that came, Thus shall ye say unto the men of Jabeshgilead, To morrow, by that time the sun be hot, ye shall have help. And the messengers came and shewed it to the men of Jabesh; and they were glad.

11:10    於是雅比人對亞捫人說，明日我們出來歸順你們，你們可以隨意待我們。
Therefore the men of Jabesh said, To morrow we will come out unto you, and ye shall do with us all that seemeth good unto you.



11:11    第二日，掃羅將百姓分為三隊，在晨更的時候入了亞捫人的營，擊殺他們直到太陽近午，剩下的人都逃散，沒有二人同在一處的。
And it was so on the morrow, that Saul put the people in three companies; and they came into the midst of the host in the morning watch, and slew the Ammonites until the heat of the day: and it came to pass, that they which remained were scattered, so that two of them were not left together.

11:12    百姓對撒母耳說，那說掃羅豈能管理我們的是誰呢。可以將他交出來，我們好殺死他。
And the people said unto Samuel, Who is he that said, Shall Saul reign over us? bring the men, that we may put them to death.

11:13    掃羅說，今日耶和華在以色列中施行拯救，所以不可殺人。
And Saul said, There shall not a man be put to death this day: for to day the LORD hath wrought salvation in Israel.

11:14    撒母耳對百姓說，我們要往吉甲去，在那裡立國。
Then said Samuel to the people, Come, and let us go to Gilgal, and renew the kingdom there.

11:15    眾百姓就到了吉甲那裡，在耶和華面前立掃羅為王，又在耶和華面前獻平安祭。掃羅和以色列眾人大大歡喜。
And all the people went to Gilgal; and there they made Saul king before the LORD in Gilgal; and there they sacrificed sacrifices of peace offerings before the LORD; and there Saul and all the men of Israel rejoiced greatly.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


12:1    撒母耳對以色列眾人說，你們向我所求的，我已應允了，為你們立了一個王。
And Samuel said unto all Israel, Behold, I have hearkened unto your voice in all that ye said unto me, and have made a king over you.

12:2    現在有這王在你們前面行。我已年老發白，我的兒子都在你們這裡。我從幼年直到今日都在你們前面行。
And now, behold, the king walketh before you: and I am old and grayheaded; and, behold, my sons are with you: and I have walked before you from my childhood unto this day.

12:3    我在這裡，你們要在耶和華和他的受膏者面前給我作見證。我奪過誰的牛，搶過誰的驢，欺負過誰，虐待過誰，從誰手裡受過賄賂因而眼瞎呢。若有，我必償還。
Behold, here I am: witness against me before the LORD, and before his anointed: whose ox have I taken? or whose ass have I taken? or whom have I defrauded? whom have I oppressed? or of whose hand have I received any bribe to blind mine eyes therewith? and I will restore it you.

12:4    眾人說，你未曾欺負我們，虐待我們，也未曾從誰手裡受過什麼。
And they said, Thou hast not defrauded us, nor oppressed us, neither hast thou taken ought of any man's hand.

12:5    撒母耳對他們說，你們在我手裡沒有找著什麼，有耶和華和他的受膏者今日為證。他們說，願他為證。
And he said unto them, The LORD is witness against you, and his anointed is witness this day, that ye have not found ought in my hand. And they answered, He is witness.

12:6    撒母耳對百姓說，從前立摩西，亞倫，又領你們列祖出埃及地的是耶和華。
And Samuel said unto the people, It is the LORD that advanced Moses and Aaron, and that brought your fathers up out of the land of Egypt.

12:7    現在你們要站住，等我在耶和華面前對你們講論耶和華向你們和你們列祖所行一切公義的事。
Now therefore stand still, that I may reason with you before the LORD of all the righteous acts of the LORD, which he did to you and to your fathers.

12:8    從前雅各到了埃及，後來你們列祖呼求耶和華，耶和華就差遣摩西，亞倫領你們列祖出埃及，使他們在這地方居住。
When Jacob was come into Egypt, and your fathers cried unto the LORD, then the LORD sent Moses and Aaron, which brought forth your fathers out of Egypt, and made them dwell in this place.

12:9    他們卻忘記耶和華他們的神，他就把他們付與夏瑣將軍西西拉的手裡，和非利士人並摩押王的手裡。於是這些人常來攻擊他們。
And when they forgat the LORD their God, he sold them into the hand of Sisera, captain of the host of Hazor, and into the hand of the Philistines, and into the hand of the king of Moab, and they fought against them.

12:10    他們就呼求耶和華說，我們離棄耶和華，事奉巴力和亞斯她錄，是有罪了。現在求你救我們脫離仇敵的手，我們必事奉你。
And they cried unto the LORD, and said, We have sinned, because we have forsaken the LORD, and have served Baalim and Ashtaroth: but now deliver us out of the hand of our enemies, and we will serve thee.

12:11    耶和華就差遣耶路巴力，比但，耶弗他，撒母耳救你們脫離四圍仇敵的手，你們才安然居住。
And the LORD sent Jerubbaal, and Bedan, and Jephthah, and Samuel, and delivered you out of the hand of your enemies on every side, and ye dwelled safe.

12:12    你們見亞捫人的王拿轄來攻擊你們，就對我說，我們定要一個王治理我們。其實耶和華你們的神是你們的王。
And when ye saw that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon came against you, ye said unto me, Nay; but a king shall reign over us: when the LORD your God was your king.

12:13    現在，你們所求所選的王在這裡。看哪，耶和華已經為你們立王了。
Now therefore behold the king whom ye have chosen, and whom ye have desired! and, behold, the LORD hath set a king over you.

12:14    你們若敬畏耶和華，事奉他，聽從他的話，不違揹他的命令，你們和治理你們的王也都順從耶和華你們的神就好了。
If ye will fear the LORD, and serve him, and obey his voice, and not rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then shall both ye and also the king that reigneth over you continue following the LORD your God:

12:15    倘若不聽從耶和華的話，違揹他的命令，耶和華的手必攻擊你們，像從前攻擊你們列祖一樣。
But if ye will not obey the voice of the LORD, but rebel against the commandment of the LORD, then shall the hand of the LORD be against you, as it was against your fathers.

12:16    現在你們要站住，看耶和華在你們眼前要行一件大事。
Now therefore stand and see this great thing, which the LORD will do before your eyes.

12:17    這不是割麥子的時候嗎。我求告耶和華，他必打雷降雨，使你們又知道又看出，你們求立王的事是在耶和華面前犯大罪了。
Is it not wheat harvest to day? I will call unto the LORD, and he shall send thunder and rain; that ye may perceive and see that your wickedness is great, which ye have done in the sight of the LORD, in asking you a king.

12:18    於是撒母耳求告耶和華，耶和華就在這日打雷降雨，眾民便甚懼怕耶和華和撒母耳。
So Samuel called unto the LORD; and the LORD sent thunder and rain that day: and all the people greatly feared the LORD and Samuel.

12:19    眾民對撒母耳說，求你為僕人們禱告耶和華你的神，免得我們死亡，因為我們求立王的事正是罪上加罪了。
And all the people said unto Samuel, Pray for thy servants unto the LORD thy God, that we die not: for we have added unto all our sins this evil, to ask us a king.

12:20    撒母耳對百姓說，不要懼怕。你們雖然行了這惡，卻不要偏離耶和華，只要盡心事奉他。
And Samuel said unto the people, Fear not: ye have done all this wickedness: yet turn not aside from following the LORD, but serve the LORD with all your heart;

12:21    若偏離耶和華去順從那不能救人的虛神是無益的。
And turn ye not aside: for then should ye go after vain things, which cannot profit nor deliver; for they are vain.

12:22    耶和華既喜悅選你們作他的子民，就必因他的大名不撇棄你們。
For the LORD will not forsake his people for his great name's sake: because it hath pleased the LORD to make you his people.

12:23    至於我，斷不停止為你們禱告，以致得罪耶和華。我必以善道正路指教你們。
Moreover as for me, God forbid that I should sin against the LORD in ceasing to pray for you: but I will teach you the good and the right way:

12:24    只要你們敬畏耶和華，誠誠實實地盡心事奉他，想念他向你們所行的事何等大。
Only fear the LORD, and serve him in truth with all your heart: for consider how great things he hath done for you.

12:25    你們若仍然作惡，你們和你們的王必一同滅亡。
But if ye shall still do wickedly, ye shall be consumed, both ye and your king.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


13:1    掃羅登基年四十歲。作以色列王二年的時候，
Saul reigned one year; and when he had reigned two years over Israel,

13:2    就從以色列中揀選了三千人，二千跟隨掃羅在密抹和伯特利山，一千跟隨約拿單在便雅憫的基比亞。其餘的人掃羅都打發各回各家去了。
Saul chose him three thousand men of Israel; whereof two thousand were with Saul in Michmash and in mount Bethel, and a thousand were with Jonathan in Gibeah of Benjamin: and the rest of the people he sent every man to his tent.

13:3    約拿單攻擊迦巴，非利士人的防營，非利士人聽見了。掃羅就在遍地吹角，意思說，要使希伯來人聽見。
And Jonathan smote the garrison of the Philistines that was in Geba, and the Philistines heard of it. And Saul blew the trumpet throughout all the land, saying, Let the Hebrews hear.

13:4    以色列眾人聽見掃羅攻擊非利士人的防營，又聽見以色列人為非利士人所憎惡，就跟隨掃羅聚集在吉甲。
And all Israel heard say that Saul had smitten a garrison of the Philistines, and that Israel also was had in abomination with the Philistines. And the people were called together after Saul to Gilgal.

13:5    非利士人聚集，要與以色列人爭戰，有車三萬輛，馬兵六千，步兵像海邊的沙那樣多，就上來在伯亞文東邊的密抹安營。
And the Philistines gathered themselves together to fight with Israel, thirty thousand chariots, and six thousand horsemen, and people as the sand which is on the sea shore in multitude: and they came up, and pitched in Michmash, eastward from Bethaven.

13:6    以色列百姓見自己危急窘迫，就藏在山洞，叢林，石穴，隱密處，和坑中。
When the men of Israel saw that they were in a strait, (for the people were distressed,) then the people did hide themselves in caves, and in thickets, and in rocks, and in high places, and in pits.

13:7    有些希伯來人過了約旦河，逃到迦得和基列地。掃羅還是在吉甲，百姓都戰戰兢兢地跟隨他。
And some of the Hebrews went over Jordan to the land of Gad and Gilead. As for Saul, he was yet in Gilgal, and all the people followed him trembling.

13:8    掃羅照著撒母耳所定的日期等了七日。撒母耳還沒有來到吉甲，百姓也離開掃羅散去了。
And he tarried seven days, according to the set time that Samuel had appointed: but Samuel came not to Gilgal; and the people were scattered from him.

13:9    掃羅說，把燔祭和平安祭帶到我這裡來。掃羅就獻上燔祭。
And Saul said, Bring hither a burnt offering to me, and peace offerings. And he offered the burnt offering.

13:10    剛獻完燔祭，撒母耳就到了。掃羅出去迎接他，要問他好。
And it came to pass, that as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, behold, Samuel came; and Saul went out to meet him, that he might salute him.

13:11    撒母耳說，你作的是什麼事呢。掃羅說，因為我見百姓離開我散去，你也不照所定的日期來到，而且非利士人聚集在密抹。
And Samuel said, What hast thou done? And Saul said, Because I saw that the people were scattered from me, and that thou camest not within the days appointed, and that the Philistines gathered themselves together at Michmash;

13:12    所以我心裡說，恐怕我沒有禱告耶和華。非利士人下到吉甲攻擊我，我就勉強獻上燔祭。
Therefore said I, The Philistines will come down now upon me to Gilgal, and I have not made supplication unto the LORD: I forced myself therefore, and offered a burnt offering.

13:13    撒母耳對掃羅說，你作了糊塗事了，沒有遵守耶和華你神所吩咐你的命令。若遵守，耶和華必在以色列中堅立你的王位，直到永遠。
And Samuel said to Saul, Thou hast done foolishly: thou hast not kept the commandment of the LORD thy God, which he commanded thee: for now would the LORD have established thy kingdom upon Israel for ever.

13:14    現在你的王位必不長久。耶和華已經尋著一個合他心意的人，立他作百姓的君，因為你沒有遵守耶和華所吩咐你的。
But now thy kingdom shall not continue: the LORD hath sought him a man after his own heart, and the LORD hath commanded him to be captain over his people, because thou hast not kept that which the LORD commanded thee.

13:15    撒母耳就起來，從吉甲上到便雅憫的基比亞。掃羅數點跟隨他的，約有六百人。
And Samuel arose, and gat him up from Gilgal unto Gibeah of Benjamin. And Saul numbered the people that were present with him, about six hundred men.

13:16    掃羅和他兒子約拿單，並跟隨他們的人，都住在便雅憫的迦巴。但非利士人安營在密抹。
And Saul, and Jonathan his son, and the people that were present with them, abode in Gibeah of Benjamin: but the Philistines encamped in Michmash.

13:17    有掠兵從非利士營中出來，分為三隊，一隊往俄弗拉向書亞地去，
And the spoilers came out of the camp of the Philistines in three companies: one company turned unto the way that leadeth to Ophrah, unto the land of Shual:

13:18    一隊往伯和侖去，一隊往洗波音谷對面的地境向曠野去。
And another company turned the way to Bethhoron: and another company turned to the way of the border that looketh to the valley of Zeboim toward the wilderness.

13:19    那時，以色列全地沒有一個鐵匠。因為非利士人說，恐怕希伯來人制造刀槍。
Now there was no smith found throughout all the land of Israel: for the Philistines said, Lest the Hebrews make them swords or spears:

13:20    以色列人要磨鋤，犁，斧，鏟，就下到非利士人那裡去磨。
But all the Israelites went down to the Philistines, to sharpen every man his share, and his coulter, and his axe, and his mattock.

13:21    但有銼可以銼鏟，犁，三齒叉，斧子，並趕牛錐。
Yet they had a file for the mattocks, and for the coulters, and for the forks, and for the axes, and to sharpen the goads.

13:22    所以到了爭戰的日子，跟隨掃羅和約拿單的人沒有一個手裡有刀有槍的，惟獨掃羅和他兒子約拿單有。
So it came to pass in the day of battle, that there was neither sword nor spear found in the hand of any of the people that were with Saul and Jonathan: but with Saul and with Jonathan his son was there found.

13:23    非利士人的一隊防兵到了密抹的隘口。
And the garrison of the Philistines went out to the passage of Michmash.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


14:1    有一日，掃羅的兒子約拿單對拿他兵器的少年人說，我們不如過到那邊，到非利士人的防營那裡去。但他沒有告訴父親。
Now it came to pass upon a day, that Jonathan the son of Saul said unto the young man that bare his armour, Come, and let us go over to the Philistines' garrison, that is on the other side. But he told not his father.

14:2    掃羅在基比亞的盡邊，坐在米磯侖的石榴樹下，跟隨他的約有六百人。
And Saul tarried in the uttermost part of Gibeah under a pomegranate tree which is in Migron: and the people that were with him were about six hundred men;

14:3    在那裡有亞希突的兒子亞希亞，穿著以弗得。亞希突是以迦博的哥哥，非尼哈的兒子，以利的孫子。以利從前在示羅作耶和華的祭司。約拿單去了，百姓卻不知道。
And Ahiah, the son of Ahitub, Ichabod's brother, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eli, the LORD's priest in Shiloh, wearing an ephod. And the people knew not that Jonathan was gone.

14:4    約拿單要從隘口過到非利士防營那裡去。這隘口兩邊各有一個山峰，一名播薛，一名西尼。
And between the passages, by which Jonathan sought to go over unto the Philistines' garrison, there was a sharp rock on the one side, and a sharp rock on the other side: and the name of the one was Bozez, and the name of the other Seneh.

14:5    一峰向北，與密抹相對，一峰向南，與迦巴相對。
The forefront of the one was situate northward over against Michmash, and the other southward over against Gibeah.

14:6    約拿單對拿兵器的少年人說，我們不如過到未受割禮人的防營那裡去，或者耶和華為我們施展能力。因為耶和華使人得勝，不在乎人多人少。
And Jonathan said to the young man that bare his armour, Come, and let us go over unto the garrison of these uncircumcised: it may be that the LORD will work for us: for there is no restraint to the LORD to save by many or by few.

14:7    拿兵器的對他說，隨你的心意行吧。你可以上去，我必跟隨你，與你同心。
And his armourbearer said unto him, Do all that is in thine heart: turn thee; behold, I am with thee according to thy heart.

14:8    約拿單說，我們要過到那些人那裡去，使他們看見我們。
Then said Jonathan, Behold, we will pass over unto these men, and we will discover ourselves unto them.

14:9    他們若對我們說，你們站住，等我們到你們那裡去，我們就站住，不上他們那裡去。
If they say thus unto us, Tarry until we come to you; then we will stand still in our place, and will not go up unto them.

14:10    他們若說，你們上到我們這裡來，這話就是我們的證據。我們便上去，因為耶和華將他們交在我們手裡了。
But if they say thus, Come up unto us; then we will go up: for the LORD hath delivered them into our hand: and this shall be a sign unto us.

14:11    二人就使非利士的防兵看見。非利士人說，希伯來人從所藏的洞穴裡出來了。
And both of them discovered themselves unto the garrison of the Philistines: and the Philistines said, Behold, the Hebrews come forth out of the holes where they had hid themselves.

14:12    防兵對約拿單和拿兵器的人說，你們上到這裡來，我們有一件事指示你們。約拿單就對拿兵器的人說，你跟隨我上去，因為耶和華將他們交在以色列人手裡了。
And the men of the garrison answered Jonathan and his armourbearer, and said, Come up to us, and we will shew you a thing. And Jonathan said unto his armourbearer, Come up after me: for the LORD hath delivered them into the hand of Israel.

14:13    約拿單就爬上去，拿兵器的人跟隨他。約拿單殺倒非利士人，拿兵器的人也隨著殺他們。
And Jonathan climbed up upon his hands and upon his feet, and his armourbearer after him: and they fell before Jonathan; and his armourbearer slew after him.

14:14    約拿單和拿兵器的人起頭所殺的約有二十人，都在一畝地的半犁溝之內。
And that first slaughter, which Jonathan and his armourbearer made, was about twenty men, within as it were an half acre of land, which a yoke of oxen might plow.

14:15    於是在營中，在田野，在眾民內都有戰兢，防兵和掠兵也都戰兢，地也震動，戰兢之勢甚大。
And there was trembling in the host, in the field, and among all the people: the garrison, and the spoilers, they also trembled, and the earth quaked: so it was a very great trembling.

14:16    在便雅憫的基比亞，掃羅的守望兵看見非利士的軍眾潰散，四圍亂竄。
And the watchmen of Saul in Gibeah of Benjamin looked; and, behold, the multitude melted away, and they went on beating down one another.

14:17    掃羅就對跟隨他的民說，你們查點查點，看從我們這裡出去的是誰。他們一查點，就知道約拿單和拿兵器的人沒有在這裡。
Then said Saul unto the people that were with him, Number now, and see who is gone from us. And when they had numbered, behold, Jonathan and his armourbearer were not there.

14:18    那時神的約櫃在以色列人那裡。掃羅對亞希亞說，你將神的約櫃運了來。
And Saul said unto Ahiah, Bring hither the ark of God. For the ark of God was at that time with the children of Israel.

14:19    掃羅正與祭司說話的時候，非利士營中的喧囔越發大了。掃羅就對祭司說，停手吧。
And it came to pass, while Saul talked unto the priest, that the noise that was in the host of the Philistines went on and increased: and Saul said unto the priest, Withdraw thine hand.

14:20    掃羅和跟隨他的人都聚集，來到戰場，看見非利士人用刀互相擊殺，大大惶亂。
And Saul and all the people that were with him assembled themselves, and they came to the battle: and, behold, every man's sword was against his fellow, and there was a very great discomfiture.

14:21    從前由四方來跟隨非利士軍的希伯來人現在也轉過來，幫助跟隨掃羅和約拿單的以色列人了。
Moreover the Hebrews that were with the Philistines before that time, which went up with them into the camp from the country round about, even they also turned to be with the Israelites that were with Saul and Jonathan.

14:22    那藏在以法蓮山地的以色列人聽說非利士人逃跑，就出來緊緊地追殺他們。
Likewise all the men of Israel which had hid themselves in mount Ephraim, when they heard that the Philistines fled, even they also followed hard after them in the battle.

14:23    那日，耶和華使以色列人得勝，一直戰到伯亞文。
So the LORD saved Israel that day: and the battle passed over unto Bethaven.

14:24    掃羅叫百姓起誓說，凡不等到晚上向敵人報完了仇吃什麼的，必受咒詛。因此這日百姓沒有吃什麼，就極其困憊。
And the men of Israel were distressed that day: for Saul had adjured the people, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food until evening, that I may be avenged on mine enemies. So none of the people tasted any food.

14:25    眾民進入樹林，見有蜜在地上。
And all they of the land came to a wood; and there was honey upon the ground.

14:26    他們進了樹林，見有蜜流下來，卻沒友人敢用手取蜜入口，因為他們怕那誓言。
And when the people were come into the wood, behold, the honey dropped; but no man put his hand to his mouth: for the people feared the oath.

14:27    約拿單沒有聽見他父親叫百姓起誓，所以伸手中的杖，用杖頭蘸在蜂房裡，轉手送入口內，眼睛就明亮了。
But Jonathan heard not when his father charged the people with the oath: wherefore he put forth the end of the rod that was in his hand, and dipped it in an honeycomb, and put his hand to his mouth; and his eyes were enlightened.

14:28    百姓中有一人對他說，你父親曾叫百姓嚴嚴地起誓說，今日吃什麼的，必受咒詛。因此百姓就疲乏了。
Then answered one of the people, and said, Thy father straitly charged the people with an oath, saying, Cursed be the man that eateth any food this day. And the people were faint.

14:29    約拿單說，我父親連累你們了。你看，我嚐了這一點蜜，眼睛就明亮了。
Then said Jonathan, My father hath troubled the land: see, I pray you, how mine eyes have been enlightened, because I tasted a little of this honey.

14:30    今日百姓若任意吃了從仇敵所奪的物，擊殺的非利士人豈不更多嗎。
How much more, if haply the people had eaten freely to day of the spoil of their enemies which they found? for had there not been now a much greater slaughter among the Philistines?

14:31    這日，以色列人擊殺非利士人，從密抹直到亞雅侖。百姓甚是疲乏，
And they smote the Philistines that day from Michmash to Aijalon: and the people were very faint.



14:32    就急忙將所奪的牛羊和牛犢宰於地上，肉還帶血就吃了。
And the people flew upon the spoil, and took sheep, and oxen, and calves, and slew them on the ground: and the people did eat them with the blood.

14:33    有人告訴掃羅說，百姓吃帶血的肉，得罪耶和華了。掃羅說，你們有罪了，今日要將大石頭滾到我這裡來。
Then they told Saul, saying, Behold, the people sin against the LORD, in that they eat with the blood. And he said, Ye have transgressed: roll a great stone unto me this day.

14:34    掃羅又說，你們散在百姓中，對他們說，你們各人將牛羊牽到我這裡來宰了吃，不可吃帶血的肉得罪耶和華。這夜，百姓就把牛羊牽到那裡宰了。
And Saul said, Disperse yourselves among the people, and say unto them, Bring me hither every man his ox, and every man his sheep, and slay them here, and eat; and sin not against the LORD in eating with the blood. And all the people brought every man his ox with him that night, and slew them there.

14:35    掃羅為耶和華築了一座壇，這是他初次為耶和華築的壇。
And Saul built an altar unto the LORD: the same was the first altar that he built unto the LORD.

14:36    掃羅說，我們不如夜裡下去追趕非利士人，搶掠他們，直到天亮，不留他們一人。眾民說，你看怎樣好就去行吧。祭司說，我們先當親近神。
And Saul said, Let us go down after the Philistines by night, and spoil them until the morning light, and let us not leave a man of them. And they said, Do whatsoever seemeth good unto thee. Then said the priest, Let us draw near hither unto God.

14:37    掃羅求問神說，我下去追趕非利士人可以不可以。你將他們交在以色列人手裡不交。這日神沒有回答他。
And Saul asked counsel of God, Shall I go down after the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into the hand of Israel? But he answered him not that day.

14:38    掃羅說，你們百姓中的長老都上這裡來，查明今日是誰犯了罪。
And Saul said, Draw ye near hither, all the chief of the people: and know and see wherein this sin hath been this day.

14:39    我指著救以色列永生的耶和華起誓，就是我兒子約拿單犯了罪，他也必死。但百姓中無一人回答他。
For, as the LORD liveth, which saveth Israel, though it be in Jonathan my son, he shall surely die. But there was not a man among all the people that answered him.

14:40    掃羅就對以色列眾人說，你們站在一邊，我與我兒子約拿單也站在一邊。百姓對掃羅說，你看怎樣好就去行吧。
Then said he unto all Israel, Be ye on one side, and I and Jonathan my son will be on the other side. And the people said unto Saul, Do what seemeth good unto thee.

14:41    掃羅禱告耶和華以色列的神說，求你指示實情。於是掣籤掣出掃羅和約拿單來。百姓盡都無事。
Therefore Saul said unto the LORD God of Israel, Give a perfect lot. And Saul and Jonathan were taken: but the people escaped.

14:42    掃羅說，你們再掣籤，看是我，是我兒子約拿單，就掣出約拿單來。
And Saul said, Cast lots between me and Jonathan my son. And Jonathan was taken.

14:43    掃羅對約拿單說，你告訴我，你作了什麼事。約拿單說，我實在以手裡的杖，用杖頭蘸了一點蜜嚐了一嘗。這樣我就死嗎（嗎或作吧）。
Then Saul said to Jonathan, Tell me what thou hast done. And Jonathan told him, and said, I did but taste a little honey with the end of the rod that was in mine hand, and, lo, I must die.

14:44    掃羅說，約拿單哪，你定要死。若不然，願神重重地降罰與我。
And Saul answered, God do so and more also: for thou shalt surely die, Jonathan.

14:45    百姓對掃羅說，約拿單在以色列人中這樣大行拯救，豈可使他死呢。斷乎不可。我們指著永生的耶和華起誓，連他的一根頭髮也不可落地，因為他今日與神一同作事。於是百姓救約拿單免了死亡。
And the people said unto Saul, Shall Jonathan die, who hath wrought this great salvation in Israel? God forbid: as the LORD liveth, there shall not one hair of his head fall to the ground; for he hath wrought with God this day. So the people rescued Jonathan, that he died not.

14:46    掃羅回去，不追趕非利士人。非利士人也回本地去了。
Then Saul went up from following the Philistines: and the Philistines went to their own place.

14:47    掃羅執掌以色列的國權，常常攻擊他四圍的一切仇敵，就是摩押人，亞捫人，以東人，和瑣巴諸王，並非利士人。他無論往何處去，都打敗仇敵。
So Saul took the kingdom over Israel, and fought against all his enemies on every side, against Moab, and against the children of Ammon, and against Edom, and against the kings of Zobah, and against the Philistines: and whithersoever he turned himself, he vexed them.

14:48    掃羅奮勇攻擊亞瑪力人，救了以色列人脫離搶掠他們之人的手。
And he gathered an host, and smote the Amalekites, and delivered Israel out of the hands of them that spoiled them.

14:49    掃羅的兒子是約拿單，亦施韋，麥基舒亞。他的兩個女兒，長女名米拉，次女名米甲。
Now the sons of Saul were Jonathan, and Ishui, and Melchishua: and the names of his two daughters were these; the name of the firstborn Merab, and the name of the younger Michal:

14:50    掃羅的妻名叫亞希暖，是亞希瑪斯的女兒。掃羅的元帥名叫押尼珥，是尼珥的兒子。尼珥是掃羅的叔叔。
And the name of Saul's wife was Ahinoam, the daughter of Ahimaaz: and the name of the captain of his host was Abner, the son of Ner, Saul's uncle.

14:51    掃羅的父親基士，押尼珥的父親尼珥，都是亞別的兒子。
And Kish was the father of Saul; and Ner the father of Abner was the son of Abiel.

14:52    掃羅平生常與非利士人大大爭戰。掃羅遇見有能力的人或勇士，都招募了來跟隨他。
And there was sore war against the Philistines all the days of Saul: and when Saul saw any strong man, or any valiant man, he took him unto him.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


15:1    撒母耳對掃羅說，耶和華差遣我膏你為王，治理他的百姓以色列。所以你當聽從耶和華的話。
Samuel also said unto Saul, The LORD sent me to anoint thee to be king over his people, over Israel: now therefore hearken thou unto the voice of the words of the LORD.

15:2    萬軍之耶和華如此說，以色列人出埃及的時候，在路上亞瑪力人怎樣待他們，怎樣抵擋他們，我都沒忘。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I remember that which Amalek did to Israel, how he laid wait for him in the way, when he came up from Egypt.

15:3    現在你要去擊打亞瑪力人，滅盡他們所有的，不可憐惜他們，將男女，孩童，吃奶的，並牛，羊，駱駝，和驢盡行殺死。
Now go and smite Amalek, and utterly destroy all that they have, and spare them not; but slay both man and woman, infant and suckling, ox and sheep, camel and ass.

15:4    於是掃羅招聚百姓在提拉因，數點他們，共有步兵二十萬，另有猶大人一萬。
And Saul gathered the people together, and numbered them in Telaim, two hundred thousand footmen, and ten thousand men of Judah.

15:5    掃羅到了亞瑪力的京城，在谷中設下埋伏。
And Saul came to a city of Amalek, and laid wait in the valley.

15:6    掃羅對基尼人說，你們離開亞瑪力人下去吧，恐怕我將你們和亞瑪力人一同殺滅。因為以色列人出埃及的時候，你們曾恩待他們。於是基尼人離開亞瑪力人去了。
And Saul said unto the Kenites, Go, depart, get you down from among the Amalekites, lest I destroy you with them: for ye shewed kindness to all the children of Israel, when they came up out of Egypt. So the Kenites departed from among the Amalekites.

15:7    掃羅擊打亞瑪力人，從哈腓拉直到埃及前的書珥，
And Saul smote the Amalekites from Havilah until thou comest to Shur, that is over against Egypt.

15:8    生擒了亞瑪力王亞甲，用刀殺盡亞瑪力的眾民。
And he took Agag the king of the Amalekites alive, and utterly destroyed all the people with the edge of the sword.

15:9    掃羅和百姓卻憐惜亞甲，也愛惜上好的牛，羊，牛犢，羊羔，並一切美物，不肯滅絕。凡下賤瘦弱的，盡都殺了。
But Saul and the people spared Agag, and the best of the sheep, and of the oxen, and of the fatlings, and the lambs, and all that was good, and would not utterly destroy them: but every thing that was vile and refuse, that they destroyed utterly.

15:10    耶和華的話臨到撒母耳說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto Samuel, saying,

15:11    我立掃羅為王，我後悔了。因為他轉去不跟從我，不遵守我的命令。撒母耳便甚憂愁，終夜哀求耶和華。
It repenteth me that I have set up Saul to be king: for he is turned back from following me, and hath not performed my commandments. And it grieved Samuel; and he cried unto the LORD all night.

15:12    撒母耳清早起來，迎接掃羅。有人告訴撒母耳說，掃羅到了迦密，在那裡立了紀念碑，又轉身下到吉甲。
And when Samuel rose early to meet Saul in the morning, it was told Samuel, saying, Saul came to Carmel, and, behold, he set him up a place, and is gone about, and passed on, and gone down to Gilgal.

15:13    撒母耳到了掃羅那裡，掃羅對他說，願耶和華賜福與你，耶和華的命令我已遵守了。
And Samuel came to Saul: and Saul said unto him, Blessed be thou of the LORD: I have performed the commandment of the LORD.

15:14    撒母耳說，我耳中聽見有羊叫，牛嗚，是從哪裡來的呢。
And Samuel said, What meaneth then this bleating of the sheep in mine ears, and the lowing of the oxen which I hear?

15:15    掃羅說，這是百姓從亞瑪力人那裡帶來的。因為他們愛惜上好的牛羊，要獻與耶和華你的神。其餘的，我們都滅盡了。
And Saul said, They have brought them from the Amalekites: for the people spared the best of the sheep and of the oxen, to sacrifice unto the LORD thy God; and the rest we have utterly destroyed.

15:16    撒母耳對掃羅說，你住口吧。等我將耶和華昨夜向我所說的話告訴你。掃羅說，請講。
Then Samuel said unto Saul, Stay, and I will tell thee what the LORD hath said to me this night. And he said unto him, Say on.

15:17    撒母耳對掃羅說，從前你雖然以自己為小，豈不是被立為以色列支派的元首嗎。耶和華膏你作以色列的王。
And Samuel said, When thou wast little in thine own sight, wast thou not made the head of the tribes of Israel, and the LORD anointed thee king over Israel?

15:18    耶和華差遣你，吩咐你說，你去擊打那些犯罪的亞瑪力人，將他們滅絕淨盡。
And the LORD sent thee on a journey, and said, Go and utterly destroy the sinners the Amalekites, and fight against them until they be consumed.

15:19    你為何沒有聽從耶和華的命令，急忙擄掠財物，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事呢。
Wherefore then didst thou not obey the voice of the LORD, but didst fly upon the spoil, and didst evil in the sight of the LORD?

15:20    掃羅對撒母耳說，我實在聽從了耶和華的命令，行了耶和華所差遣我行的路，擒了亞瑪力王亞甲來，滅盡了亞瑪力人。
And Saul said unto Samuel, Yea, I have obeyed the voice of the LORD, and have gone the way which the LORD sent me, and have brought Agag the king of Amalek, and have utterly destroyed the Amalekites.

15:21    百姓卻在所當滅的物中取了最好的牛羊，要在吉甲獻與耶和華你的神。
But the people took of the spoil, sheep and oxen, the chief of the things which should have been utterly destroyed, to sacrifice unto the LORD thy God in Gilgal.

15:22    撒母耳說，耶和華喜悅燔祭和平安祭，豈如喜悅人聽從他的話呢。聽命勝於獻祭。順從勝於公羊的脂油。
And Samuel said, Hath the LORD as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices, as in obeying the voice of the LORD? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to hearken than the fat of rams.

15:23    悖逆的罪與行邪術的罪相等。頑梗的罪與拜虛神和偶像的罪相同。你既厭棄耶和華的命令，耶和華也厭棄你作王。
For rebellion is as the sin of witchcraft, and stubbornness is as iniquity and idolatry. Because thou hast rejected the word of the LORD, he hath also rejected thee from being king.

15:24    掃羅對撒母耳說，我有罪了，我因懼怕百姓，聽從他們的話，就違背了耶和華的命令和你的言語。
And Saul said unto Samuel, I have sinned: for I have transgressed the commandment of the LORD, and thy words: because I feared the people, and obeyed their voice.

15:25    現在求你赦免我的罪，同我回去，我好敬拜耶和華。
Now therefore, I pray thee, pardon my sin, and turn again with me, that I may worship the LORD.

15:26    撒母耳對掃羅說，我不同你回去。因為你厭棄耶和華的命令，耶和華也厭棄你作以色列的王。
And Samuel said unto Saul, I will not return with thee: for thou hast rejected the word of the LORD, and the LORD hath rejected thee from being king over Israel.

15:27    撒母耳轉身要走，掃羅就扯住他外袍的衣襟，衣襟就撕斷了。
And as Samuel turned about to go away, he laid hold upon the skirt of his mantle, and it rent.

15:28    撒母耳對他說，如此，今日耶和華使以色列國與你斷絕，將這國賜與比你更好的人。
And Samuel said unto him, The LORD hath rent the kingdom of Israel from thee this day, and hath given it to a neighbour of thine, that is better than thou.

15:29    以色列的大能者必不致說謊，也不致後悔。因為他迥非世人，決不後悔。
And also the Strength of Israel will not lie nor repent: for he is not a man, that he should repent.

15:30    掃羅說，我有罪了，雖然如此，求你在我百姓的長老和以色列人面前抬舉我，同我回去，我好敬拜耶和華你的神。
Then he said, I have sinned: yet honour me now, I pray thee, before the elders of my people, and before Israel, and turn again with me, that I may worship the LORD thy God.

15:31    於是撒母耳轉身跟隨掃羅回去，掃羅就敬拜耶和華。
So Samuel turned again after Saul; and Saul worshipped the LORD.

15:32    撒母耳說，要把亞瑪力王亞甲帶到我這裡來。亞甲就歡歡喜喜地來到他面前，心裡說，死亡的苦難必定過去了。
Then said Samuel, Bring ye hither to me Agag the king of the Amalekites. And Agag came unto him delicately. And Agag said, Surely the bitterness of death is past.

15:33    撒母耳說，你既用刀使婦人喪子，這樣，你母親在婦人中也必喪子。於是，撒母耳在吉甲耶和華面前將亞甲殺死。
And Samuel said, As thy sword hath made women childless, so shall thy mother be childless among women. And Samuel hewed Agag in pieces before the LORD in Gilgal.

15:34    撒母耳回了拉瑪。掃羅上他所住的基比亞，回自己的家去了。
Then Samuel went to Ramah; and Saul went up to his house to Gibeah of Saul.

15:35    撒母耳直到死的日子，再沒有見掃羅。但撒母耳為掃羅悲傷，是因耶和華後悔立他為以色列的王。
And Samuel came no more to see Saul until the day of his death: nevertheless Samuel mourned for Saul: and the LORD repented that he had made Saul king over Israel.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


16:1    耶和華對撒母耳說，我既厭棄掃羅作以色列的王，你為他悲傷要到幾時呢。你將膏油盛滿了角，我差遣你往伯利恆人耶西那裡去。因為我在他眾子之內，預定一個作王的。
And the LORD said unto Samuel, How long wilt thou mourn for Saul, seeing I have rejected him from reigning over Israel? fill thine horn with oil, and go, I will send thee to Jesse the Bethlehemite: for I have provided me a king among his sons.

16:2    撒母耳說，我怎能去呢。掃羅若聽見，必要殺我。耶和華說，你可以帶一隻牛犢去，就說，我來是要向耶和華獻祭。
And Samuel said, How can I go? if Saul hear it, he will kill me. And the LORD said, Take an heifer with thee, and say, I am come to sacrifice to the LORD.

16:3    你要請耶西來吃祭肉，我就指示你所當行的事。我所指給你的人，你要膏他。
And call Jesse to the sacrifice, and I will shew thee what thou shalt do: and thou shalt anoint unto me him whom I name unto thee.

16:4    撒母耳就照耶和華的話去行。到了伯利恆，那城裡的長老都戰戰兢兢地出來迎接他，問他說，你是為平安來的嗎。
And Samuel did that which the LORD spake, and came to Bethlehem. And the elders of the town trembled at his coming, and said, Comest thou peaceably?

16:5    他說，為平安來的，我是給耶和華獻祭。你們當自潔，來與我同吃祭肉。撒母耳就使耶西和他眾子自潔，請他們來吃祭肉。
And he said, Peaceably: I am come to sacrifice unto the LORD: sanctify yourselves, and come with me to the sacrifice. And he sanctified Jesse and his sons, and called them to the sacrifice.

16:6    他們來的時候，撒母耳看見以利押，就心裡說，耶和華的受膏者必定在他面前。
And it came to pass, when they were come, that he looked on Eliab, and said, Surely the LORD's anointed is before him.

16:7    耶和華卻對撒母耳說，不要看他的外貌和他身材高大，我不揀選他。因為，耶和華不像人看人，人是看外貌。耶和華是看內心。
But the LORD said unto Samuel, Look not on his countenance, or on the height of his stature; because I have refused him: for the LORD seeth not as man seeth; for man looketh on the outward appearance, but the LORD looketh on the heart.

16:8    耶西叫亞比拿達從撒母耳面前經過，撒母耳說，耶和華也不揀選他。
Then Jesse called Abinadab, and made him pass before Samuel. And he said, Neither hath the LORD chosen this.

16:9    耶西又叫沙瑪從撒母耳面前經過，撒母耳說，耶和華也不揀選他。
Then Jesse made Shammah to pass by. And he said, Neither hath the LORD chosen this.

16:10    耶西叫他七個兒子都從撒母耳面前經過，撒母耳說，這都不是耶和華所揀選的。
Again, Jesse made seven of his sons to pass before Samuel. And Samuel said unto Jesse, The LORD hath not chosen these.



16:11    撒母耳對耶西說，你的兒子都在這裡嗎。他回答說，還有個小的，現在放羊。撒母耳對耶西說，你打發人去叫他來。他若不來，我們必不坐席。
And Samuel said unto Jesse, Are here all thy children? And he said, There remaineth yet the youngest, and, behold, he keepeth the sheep. And Samuel said unto Jesse, Send and fetch him: for we will not sit down till he come hither.

16:12    耶西就打發人去叫了他來。他面色光紅，雙目清秀，容貌俊美。耶和華說，這就是他，你起來膏他。
And he sent, and brought him in. Now he was ruddy, and withal of a beautiful countenance, and goodly to look to. And the LORD said, Arise, anoint him: for this is he.

16:13    撒母耳就用角里的膏油，在他諸兄中膏了他。從這日起，耶和華的靈就大大感動大衛。撒母耳起身回拉瑪去了。
Then Samuel took the horn of oil, and anointed him in the midst of his brethren: and the Spirit of the LORD came upon David from that day forward. So Samuel rose up, and went to Ramah.

16:14    耶和華的靈離開掃羅，有惡魔從耶和華那裡來擾亂他。
But the Spirit of the LORD departed from Saul, and an evil spirit from the LORD troubled him.

16:15    掃羅的臣僕對他說，現在有惡魔從神那裡來擾亂你。
And Saul's servants said unto him, Behold now, an evil spirit from God troubleth thee.

16:16    我們的主可以吩咐面前的臣僕，找一個善於彈琴的來，等神那裡來的惡魔臨到你身上的時候，使他用手彈琴，你就好了。
Let our lord now command thy servants, which are before thee, to seek out a man, who is a cunning player on an harp: and it shall come to pass, when the evil spirit from God is upon thee, that he shall play with his hand, and thou shalt be well.

16:17    掃羅對臣僕說，你們可以為我找一個善於彈琴的，帶到我這裡來。
And Saul said unto his servants, Provide me now a man that can play well, and bring him to me.

16:18    其中有一個少年人說，我曾見伯利恆人耶西的一個兒子善於彈琴，是大有勇敢的戰士，說話合宜，容貌俊美，耶和華也與他同在。
Then answered one of the servants, and said, Behold, I have seen a son of Jesse the Bethlehemite, that is cunning in playing, and a mighty valiant man, and a man of war, and prudent in matters, and a comely person, and the LORD is with him.

16:19    於是掃羅差遣使者去見耶西，說，請你打發你放羊的兒子大衛到我這裡來。
Wherefore Saul sent messengers unto Jesse, and said, Send me David thy son, which is with the sheep.

16:20    耶西就把幾個餅和一皮袋酒，並一隻山羊羔，都馱在驢上，交給他兒子大衛，送與掃羅。
And Jesse took an ass laden with bread, and a bottle of wine, and a kid, and sent them by David his son unto Saul.

16:21    大衛到了掃羅那裡，就侍立在掃羅面前。掃羅甚喜愛他，他就作了掃羅拿兵器的人。
And David came to Saul, and stood before him: and he loved him greatly; and he became his armourbearer.

16:22    掃羅差遣人去見耶西，說，求你容大衛侍立在我面前，因為他在我眼前蒙了恩。
And Saul sent to Jesse, saying, Let David, I pray thee, stand before me; for he hath found favour in my sight.

16:23    從神那裡來的惡魔臨到掃羅身上的時候，大衛就拿琴，用手而彈，掃羅便舒暢爽快，惡魔離了他。
And it came to pass, when the evil spirit from God was upon Saul, that David took an harp, and played with his hand: so Saul was refreshed, and was well, and the evil spirit departed from him.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


17:1    非利士人招聚他們的軍旅，要來爭戰。聚集在屬猶大的梭哥，安營在梭哥和亞西加中間的以弗大憫。
Now the Philistines gathered together their armies to battle, and were gathered together at Shochoh, which belongeth to Judah, and pitched between Shochoh and Azekah, in Ephesdammim.

17:2    掃羅和以色列人也聚集，在以拉谷安營，擺列隊伍，要與非利士人打仗。
And Saul and the men of Israel were gathered together, and pitched by the valley of Elah, and set the battle in array against the Philistines.

17:3    非利士人站在這邊山上，以色列人站在那邊山上，當中有谷。
And the Philistines stood on a mountain on the one side, and Israel stood on a mountain on the other side: and there was a valley between them.

17:4    從非利士營中出來一個討戰的人，名叫歌利亞，是迦特人，身高六肘零一虎口。
And there went out a champion out of the camp of the Philistines, named Goliath, of Gath, whose height was six cubits and a span.

17:5    頭戴銅盔，身穿鎧甲，甲重五千舍客勒。
And he had an helmet of brass upon his head, and he was armed with a coat of mail; and the weight of the coat was five thousand shekels of brass.

17:6    腿上有銅護膝，兩肩之中揹負銅戟。
And he had greaves of brass upon his legs, and a target of brass between his shoulders.

17:7    槍桿粗如織布的機軸，鐵槍頭重六百舍客勒。有一個拿盾牌的人在他前面走。
And the staff of his spear was like a weaver's beam; and his spear's head weighed six hundred shekels of iron: and one bearing a shield went before him.

17:8    歌利亞對著以色列的軍隊站立，呼叫說，你們出來擺列隊伍作什麼呢。我不是非利士人嗎。你們不是掃羅的僕人嗎。可以從你們中間揀選一人，使他下到我這裡來。
And he stood and cried unto the armies of Israel, and said unto them, Why are ye come out to set your battle in array? am not I a Philistine, and ye servants to Saul? choose you a man for you, and let him come down to me.

17:9    他若能與我戰鬥，將我殺死，我們就作你們的僕人。我若勝了他，將他殺死，你們就作我們的僕人，服事我們。
If he be able to fight with me, and to kill me, then will we be your servants: but if I prevail against him, and kill him, then shall ye be our servants, and serve us.

17:10    那非利士人又說，我今日向以色列人的軍隊罵陣。你們叫一個人出來，與我戰鬥。
And the Philistine said, I defy the armies of Israel this day; give me a man, that we may fight together.

17:11    掃羅和以色列眾人聽見非利士人的這些話，就驚惶，極其害怕。
When Saul and all Israel heard those words of the Philistine, they were dismayed, and greatly afraid.

17:12    大衛是猶大，伯利恆的以法他人耶西的兒子。耶西有八個兒子。當掃羅的時候，耶西已經老邁。
Now David was the son of that Ephrathite of Bethlehemjudah, whose name was Jesse; and he had eight sons: and the man went among men for an old man in the days of Saul.

17:13    耶西的三個大兒子跟隨掃羅出征。這出征的三個兒子，長子名叫以利押，次子名叫亞比拿達，三子名叫沙瑪。
And the three eldest sons of Jesse went and followed Saul to the battle: and the names of his three sons that went to the battle were Eliab the firstborn, and next unto him Abinadab, and the third Shammah.

17:14    大衛是最小的。那三個大兒子跟隨掃羅。
And David was the youngest: and the three eldest followed Saul.

17:15    大衛有時離開掃羅，回伯利恆放他父親的羊。
But David went and returned from Saul to feed his father's sheep at Bethlehem.

17:16    那非利士人早晚都出來站著，如此四十日。
And the Philistine drew near morning and evening, and presented himself forty days.

17:17    一日，耶西對他兒子大衛說，你拿一伊法烘了的穗子和十個餅，速速地送到營裡去，交給你哥哥們。
And Jesse said unto David his son, Take now for thy brethren an ephah of this parched corn, and these ten loaves, and run to the camp to thy brethren.

17:18    再拿這十塊奶餅，送給他們的千夫長，且問你哥哥們好，向他們要一封信來。
And carry these ten cheeses unto the captain of their thousand, and look how thy brethren fare, and take their pledge.

17:19    掃羅與大衛的三個哥哥和以色列眾人，在以拉谷與非利士人打仗。
Now Saul, and they, and all the men of Israel, were in the valley of Elah, fighting with the Philistines.

17:20    大衛早晨起來，將羊交託一個看守的人，照著他父親所吩咐的話，帶著食物去了。到了輜重營，軍兵剛出到戰場，吶喊要戰。
And David rose up early in the morning, and left the sheep with a keeper, and took, and went, as Jesse had commanded him; and he came to the trench, as the host was going forth to the fight, and shouted for the battle.

17:21    以色列人和非利士人都擺列隊伍，彼此相對。
For Israel and the Philistines had put the battle in array, army against army.

17:22    大衛把他帶來的食物留在看守物件人的手下，跑到戰場，問他哥哥們安。
And David left his carriage in the hand of the keeper of the carriage, and ran into the army, and came and saluted his brethren.

17:23    與他們說話的時候，那討戰的，就是屬迦特的非利士人歌利亞，從非利士隊中出來，說從前所說的話。大衛都聽見了。
And as he talked with them, behold, there came up the champion, the Philistine of Gath, Goliath by name, out of the armies of the Philistines, and spake according to the same words: and David heard them.

17:24    以色列眾人看見那人，就逃跑，極其害怕。
And all the men of Israel, when they saw the man, fled from him, and were sore afraid.

17:25    以色列人彼此說，這上來的人你看見了嗎。他上來是要向以色列人罵陣。若有能殺他的，王必賞賜他大財，將自己的女兒給他為妻，並在以色列人中免他父家納糧當差。
And the men of Israel said, Have ye seen this man that is come up? surely to defy Israel is he come up: and it shall be, that the man who killeth him, the king will enrich him with great riches, and will give him his daughter, and make his father's house free in Israel.

17:26    大衛問站在旁邊的人說，有人殺這非利士人，除掉以色列人的恥辱，怎樣待他呢。這未受割禮的非利士人是誰呢。竟敢向永生神的軍隊罵陣嗎。
And David spake to the men that stood by him, saying, What shall be done to the man that killeth this Philistine, and taketh away the reproach from Israel? for who is this uncircumcised Philistine, that he should defy the armies of the living God?

17:27    百姓照先前的話回答他說，有人能殺這非利士人，必如此如此待他。
And the people answered him after this manner, saying, So shall it be done to the man that killeth him.

17:28    大衛的長兄以利押聽見大衛與他們所說的話，就向他發怒，說，你下來作什麼呢。在曠野的那幾只羊，你交託了誰呢。我知道你的驕傲和你心裡的惡意，你下來特為要看爭戰。
And Eliab his eldest brother heard when he spake unto the men; and Eliab's anger was kindled against David, and he said, Why camest thou down hither? and with whom hast thou left those few sheep in the wilderness? I know thy pride, and the naughtiness of thine heart; for thou art come down that thou mightest see the battle.

17:29    大衛說，我作了什麼呢。我來豈沒有緣故嗎。
And David said, What have I now done? Is there not a cause?

17:30    大衛就離開他轉向別人，照先前的話而問。百姓仍照先前的話回答他。
And he turned from him toward another, and spake after the same manner: and the people answered him again after the former manner.

17:31    有人聽見大衛所說的話，就告訴了掃羅。掃羅便打發人叫他來。
And when the words were heard which David spake, they rehearsed them before Saul: and he sent for him.

17:32    大衛對掃羅說，人都不必因那非利士人膽怯。你的僕人要去與那非利士人戰鬥。
And David said to Saul, Let no man's heart fail because of him; thy servant will go and fight with this Philistine.

17:33    掃羅對大衛說，你不能去與那非利士人戰鬥。因為你年紀太輕，他自幼就作戰士。
And Saul said to David, Thou art not able to go against this Philistine to fight with him: for thou art but a youth, and he a man of war from his youth.

17:34    大衛對掃羅說，你僕人為父親放羊，有時來了獅子，有時來了熊，從群中銜一隻羊羔去。
And David said unto Saul, Thy servant kept his father's sheep, and there came a lion, and a bear, and took a lamb out of the flock:

17:35    我就追趕它，擊打它，將羊羔從它口中救出來。它起來要害我，我就揪著它的鬍子，將它打死。
And I went out after him, and smote him, and delivered it out of his mouth: and when he arose against me, I caught him by his beard, and smote him, and slew him.

17:36    你僕人曾打死獅子和熊，這未受割禮的非利士人向永生神的軍隊罵陣，也必像獅子和熊一般。
Thy servant slew both the lion and the bear: and this uncircumcised Philistine shall be as one of them, seeing he hath defied the armies of the living God.

17:37    大衛又說，耶和華救我脫離獅子和熊的爪，也必救我脫離這非利士人的手。掃羅對大衛說，你可以去吧。耶和華必與你同在。
David said moreover, The LORD that delivered me out of the paw of the lion, and out of the paw of the bear, he will deliver me out of the hand of this Philistine. And Saul said unto David, Go, and the LORD be with thee.

17:38    掃羅就把自己的戰衣給大衛穿上，將銅盔給他戴上，又給他穿上鎧甲。
And Saul armed David with his armour, and he put an helmet of brass upon his head; also he armed him with a coat of mail.

17:39    大衛把刀跨在戰衣外，試試能走不能走。因為素來沒有穿慣，就對掃羅說，我穿戴這些不能走，因為素來沒有穿慣。於是摘脫了。
And David girded his sword upon his armour, and he assayed to go; for he had not proved it. And David said unto Saul, I cannot go with these; for I have not proved them. And David put them off him.

17:40    他手中拿杖，又在溪中挑選了五塊光滑石子，放在袋裡，就是牧人帶的囊裡。手中拿著甩石的機弦，就去迎那非利士人。
And he took his staff in his hand, and chose him five smooth stones out of the brook, and put them in a shepherd's bag which he had, even in a scrip; and his sling was in his hand: and he drew near to the Philistine.

17:41    非利士人也漸漸地迎著大衛來，拿盾牌的走在前頭。
And the Philistine came on and drew near unto David; and the man that bare the shield went before him.

17:42    非利士人觀看，見了大衛，就藐視他。因為他年輕，面色光紅，容貌俊美。
And when the Philistine looked about, and saw David, he disdained him: for he was but a youth, and ruddy, and of a fair countenance.

17:43    非利士人對大衛說，你拿杖到我這裡來，我豈是狗呢。非利士人就指著自己的神咒詛大衛。
And the Philistine said unto David, Am I a dog, that thou comest to me with staves? And the Philistine cursed David by his gods.

17:44    非利士人又對大衛說，來吧。我將你的肉給空中的飛鳥，田野的走獸吃。
And the Philistine said to David, Come to me, and I will give thy flesh unto the fowls of the air, and to the beasts of the field.

17:45    大衛對非利士人說，你來攻擊我，是靠著刀槍和銅戟。我來攻擊你，是靠著萬軍之耶和華的名，就是你所怒罵帶領以色列軍隊的神。
Then said David to the Philistine, Thou comest to me with a sword, and with a spear, and with a shield: but I come to thee in the name of the LORD of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom thou hast defied.

17:46    今日耶和華必將你交在我手裡。我必殺你，斬你的頭，又將非利士軍兵的屍首給空中的飛鳥，地上的野獸吃，使普天下的人都知道以色列中有神。
This day will the LORD deliver thee into mine hand; and I will smite thee, and take thine head from thee; and I will give the carcases of the host of the Philistines this day unto the fowls of the air, and to the wild beasts of the earth; that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel.

17:47    又使這眾人知道耶和華使人得勝，不是用刀用槍，因為爭戰的勝敗全在乎耶和華。他必將你們交在我們手裡。
And all this assembly shall know that the LORD saveth not with sword and spear: for the battle is the LORD's, and he will give you into our hands.

17:48    非利士人起身，迎著大衛前來。大衛急忙迎著非利士人，往戰場跑去。
And it came to pass, when the Philistine arose, and came, and drew nigh to meet David, that David hastened, and ran toward the army to meet the Philistine.

17:49    大衛用手從囊中掏出一塊石子來，用機弦甩去，打中非利士人的額，石子進入額內，他就仆倒，面伏於地。
And David put his hand in his bag, and took thence a stone, and slang it, and smote the Philistine in his forehead, that the stone sunk into his forehead; and he fell upon his face to the earth.

17:50    這樣，大衛用機弦甩石，勝了那非利士人，打死他。大衛手中卻沒有刀。
So David prevailed over the Philistine with a sling and with a stone, and smote the Philistine, and slew him; but there was no sword in the hand of David.

17:51    大衛跑去，站在非利士人身旁，將他的刀從鞘中拔出來，殺死他，割了他的頭。非利士眾人看見他們討戰的勇士死了，就都逃跑。
Therefore David ran, and stood upon the Philistine, and took his sword, and drew it out of the sheath thereof, and slew him, and cut off his head therewith. And when the Philistines saw their champion was dead, they fled.

17:52    以色列人和猶大人便起身吶喊，追趕非利士人，直到迦特（或作該）和以革倫的城門。被殺的非利士人倒在沙拉音的路上，直到迦特和以革倫。
And the men of Israel and of Judah arose, and shouted, and pursued the Philistines, until thou come to the valley, and to the gates of Ekron. And the wounded of the Philistines fell down by the way to Shaaraim, even unto Gath, and unto Ekron.

17:53    以色列人追趕非利士人回來，就奪了他們的營盤。
And the children of Israel returned from chasing after the Philistines, and they spoiled their tents.

17:54    大衛將那非利士人的頭拿到耶路撒冷，卻將他軍裝放在自己的帳棚裡。
And David took the head of the Philistine, and brought it to Jerusalem; but he put his armour in his tent.

17:55    掃羅看見大衛去攻擊非利士人，就問元帥押尼珥說，押尼珥阿，那少年人是誰的兒子。押尼珥說，我敢在王面前起誓，我不知道。
And when Saul saw David go forth against the Philistine, he said unto Abner, the captain of the host, Abner, whose son is this youth? And Abner said, As thy soul liveth, O king, I cannot tell.

17:56    王說，你可以問問那幼年人是誰的兒子。
And the king said, Enquire thou whose son the stripling is.

17:57    大衛打死非利士人回來，押尼珥領他到掃羅面前，他手中拿著非利士人的頭。
And as David returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, Abner took him, and brought him before Saul with the head of the Philistine in his hand.

17:58    掃羅問他說，少年人哪，你是誰的兒子。大衛說，我是你僕人伯利恆人耶西的兒子。
And Saul said to him, Whose son art thou, thou young man? And David answered, I am the son of thy servant Jesse the Bethlehemite.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


18:1    大衛對掃羅說完了話，約拿單的心與大衛的心深相契合。約拿單愛大衛，如同愛自己的性命。
And it came to pass, when he had made an end of speaking unto Saul, that the soul of Jonathan was knit with the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.

18:2    那日掃羅留住大衛，不容他再回父家。
And Saul took him that day, and would let him go no more home to his father's house.

18:3    約拿單愛大衛如同愛自己的性命，就與他結盟。
Then Jonathan and David made a covenant, because he loved him as his own soul.

18:4    約拿單從身上脫下外袍，給了大衛，又將戰衣，刀，弓，腰帶都給了他。
And Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was upon him, and gave it to David, and his garments, even to his sword, and to his bow, and to his girdle.

18:5    掃羅無論差遣大衛往何處去，他都作事精明。掃羅就立他作戰士長，眾百姓和掃羅的臣僕無不喜悅。
And David went out whithersoever Saul sent him, and behaved himself wisely: and Saul set him over the men of war, and he was accepted in the sight of all the people, and also in the sight of Saul's servants.

18:6    大衛打死了那非利士人，同眾人回來的時候，婦女們從以色列各城裡出來，歡歡喜喜，打鼓擊磬，歌唱跳舞，迎接掃羅王。
And it came to pass as they came, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Philistine, that the women came out of all cities of Israel, singing and dancing, to meet king Saul, with tabrets, with joy, and with instruments of musick.

18:7    眾婦女舞蹈唱和，說，掃羅殺死千千，大衛殺死萬萬。
And the women answered one another as they played, and said, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands.

18:8    掃羅甚發怒，不喜悅這話，就說，將萬萬歸大衛，千千歸我，只剩下王位沒有給他了。
And Saul was very wroth, and the saying displeased him; and he said, They have ascribed unto David ten thousands, and to me they have ascribed but thousands: and what can he have more but the kingdom?

18:9    從這日起，掃羅就怒視大衛。
And Saul eyed David from that day and forward.

18:10    次日，從神那裡來的惡魔大大降在掃羅身上，他就在家中胡言亂語。大衛照常彈琴，掃羅手裡拿著槍。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that the evil spirit from God came upon Saul, and he prophesied in the midst of the house: and David played with his hand, as at other times: and there was a javelin in Saul's hand.

18:11    掃羅把槍一掄，心裡說，我要將大衛刺透，釘在牆上。大衛躲避他兩次。
And Saul cast the javelin; for he said, I will smite David even to the wall with it. And David avoided out of his presence twice.

18:12    掃羅懼怕大衛。因為耶和華離開自己，與大衛同在。
And Saul was afraid of David, because the LORD was with him, and was departed from Saul.

18:13    所以掃羅使大衛離開自己，立他為千夫長，他就領兵出入。
Therefore Saul removed him from him, and made him his captain over a thousand; and he went out and came in before the people.

18:14    大衛作事無不精明，耶和華也與他同在。
And David behaved himself wisely in all his ways; and the LORD was with him.

18:15    掃羅見大衛作事精明，就甚怕他。
Wherefore when Saul saw that he behaved himself very wisely, he was afraid of him.

18:16    但以色列和猶大眾人都愛大衛，因為他領他們出入。
But all Israel and Judah loved David, because he went out and came in before them.

18:17    掃羅對大衛說，我將大女兒米拉給你為妻，只要你為我奮勇，為耶和華爭戰。掃羅心裡說，我不好親手害他，要藉非利士人的手害他。
And Saul said to David, Behold my elder daughter Merab, her will I give thee to wife: only be thou valiant for me, and fight the LORD's battles. For Saul said, Let not mine hand be upon him, but let the hand of the Philistines be upon him.

18:18    大衛對掃羅說，我是誰，我是什麼出身，我父家在以色列中是何等的家，豈敢作王的女婿呢。
And David said unto Saul, Who am I? and what is my life, or my father's family in Israel, that I should be son in law to the king?

18:19    掃羅的女兒米拉到了當給大衛的時候，掃羅卻給了米何拉人亞得列為妻。
But it came to pass at the time when Merab Saul's daughter should have been given to David, that she was given unto Adriel the Meholathite to wife.

18:20    掃羅的次女米甲愛大衛。有人告訴掃羅，掃羅就喜悅。
And Michal Saul's daughter loved David: and they told Saul, and the thing pleased him.

18:21    掃羅心裡說，我將這女兒給大衛，作他的網羅，好藉非利士人的手害他。所以掃羅對大衛說，你今日可以第二次作我的女婿。
And Saul said, I will give him her, that she may be a snare to him, and that the hand of the Philistines may be against him. Wherefore Saul said to David, Thou shalt this day be my son in law in the one of the twain.

18:22    掃羅吩咐臣僕說，你們暗中對大衛說，王喜悅你，王的臣僕也都喜愛你，所以你當作王的女婿。
And Saul commanded his servants, saying, Commune with David secretly, and say, Behold, the king hath delight in thee, and all his servants love thee: now therefore be the king's son in law.

18:23    掃羅的臣僕就照這話說給大衛聽。大衛說，你們以為作王的女婿是一件小事嗎。我是貧窮卑微的人。
And Saul's servants spake those words in the ears of David. And David said, Seemeth it to you a light thing to be a king's son in law, seeing that I am a poor man, and lightly esteemed?

18:24    掃羅的臣僕回奏說，大衛所說的如此如此。
And the servants of Saul told him, saying, On this manner spake David.

18:25    掃羅說，你們要對大衛這樣說，王不要什麼聘禮，只要一百非利士人的陽皮，好在王的仇敵身上報仇。掃羅的意思要使大衛喪在非利士人的手裡。
And Saul said, Thus shall ye say to David, The king desireth not any dowry, but an hundred foreskins of the Philistines, to be avenged of the king's enemies. But Saul thought to make David fall by the hand of the Philistines.

18:26    掃羅的臣僕將這話告訴大衛，大衛就歡喜作王的女婿。日期還沒有到，
And when his servants told David these words, it pleased David well to be the king's son in law: and the days were not expired.

18:27    大衛和跟隨他的人起身前往，殺了二百非利士人，將陽皮滿數交給王，為要作王的女婿。於是掃羅將女兒米甲給大衛為妻。
Wherefore David arose and went, he and his men, and slew of the Philistines two hundred men; and David brought their foreskins, and they gave them in full tale to the king, that he might be the king's son in law. And Saul gave him Michal his daughter to wife.

18:28    掃羅見耶和華與大衛同在，又知道女兒米甲愛大衛，
And Saul saw and knew that the LORD was with David, and that Michal Saul's daughter loved him.

18:29    就更怕大衛，常作大衛的仇敵。
And Saul was yet the more afraid of David; and Saul became David's enemy continually.

18:30    每逢非利士軍長出來打仗，大衛比掃羅的臣僕作事精明，因此他的名被人尊重。
Then the princes of the Philistines went forth: and it came to pass, after they went forth, that David behaved himself more wisely than all the servants of Saul; so that his name was much set by.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


19:1    掃羅對他兒子約拿單和眾臣僕說，要殺大衛。掃羅的兒子約拿單卻甚喜愛大衛。
And Saul spake to Jonathan his son, and to all his servants, that they should kill David.

19:2    約拿單告訴大衛說，我父掃羅想要殺你，所以明日早晨你要小心，到一個僻靜地方藏身。
But Jonathan Saul's son delighted much in David: and Jonathan told David, saying, Saul my father seeketh to kill thee: now therefore, I pray thee, take heed to thyself until the morning, and abide in a secret place, and hide thyself:

19:3    我就出到你所藏的田裡，站在我父親旁邊與他談論。我看他情形怎樣，我必告訴你。
And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where thou art, and I will commune with my father of thee; and what I see, that I will tell thee.

19:4    約拿單向他父親掃羅替大衛說好話，說，王不可得罪王的僕人大衛。因為他未曾得罪你，他所行的都與你大有益處。
And Jonathan spake good of David unto Saul his father, and said unto him, Let not the king sin against his servant, against David; because he hath not sinned against thee, and because his works have been to thee-ward very good:

19:5    他拚命殺那非利士人，耶和華為以色列眾人大行拯救。那時你看見，甚是歡喜，現在為何無故要殺大衛，流無辜人的血，自己取罪呢。
For he did put his life in his hand, and slew the Philistine, and the LORD wrought a great salvation for all Israel: thou sawest it, and didst rejoice: wherefore then wilt thou sin against innocent blood, to slay David without a cause?

19:6    掃羅聽了約拿單的話，就指著永生的耶和華起誓說，我必不殺他。
And Saul hearkened unto the voice of Jonathan: and Saul sware, As the LORD liveth, he shall not be slain.

19:7    約拿單叫大衛來，把這一切事告訴他，帶他去見掃羅。他就仍然侍立在掃羅面前。
And Jonathan called David, and Jonathan shewed him all those things. And Jonathan brought David to Saul, and he was in his presence, as in times past.



19:8    此後又有爭戰的事。大衛出去與非利士人打仗，大大殺敗他們，他們就在他面前逃跑。
And there was war again: and David went out, and fought with the Philistines, and slew them with a great slaughter; and they fled from him.

19:9    從耶和華那裡來的惡魔又降在掃羅身上（掃羅手裡拿槍坐在屋裡），大衛就用手彈琴。
And the evil spirit from the LORD was upon Saul, as he sat in his house with his javelin in his hand: and David played with his hand.

19:10    掃羅用槍想要刺透大衛，釘在牆上。他卻躲開，掃羅的槍刺入牆內。當夜大衛逃走，躲避了。
And Saul sought to smite David even to the wall with the javelin, but he slipped away out of Saul's presence, and he smote the javelin into the wall: and David fled, and escaped that night.

19:11    掃羅打發人到大衛的房屋那裡窺探他，要等到天亮殺他。大衛的妻米甲對他說，你今夜若不逃命，明日你要被殺。
Saul also sent messengers unto David's house, to watch him, and to slay him in the morning: and Michal David's wife told him, saying, If thou save not thy life to night, to morrow thou shalt be slain.

19:12    於是米甲將大衛從窗戶裡縋下去。大衛就逃走，躲避了。
So Michal let David down through a window: and he went, and fled, and escaped.

19:13    米甲把家中的神像放在床上，頭枕在山羊毛裝的枕頭上，用被遮蓋。
And Michal took an image, and laid it in the bed, and put a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster, and covered it with a cloth.

19:14    掃羅打發人去捉拿大衛，米甲說，他病了。
And when Saul sent messengers to take David, she said, He is sick.

19:15    掃羅又打發人去看大衛，說，當連床將他抬來，我好殺他。
And Saul sent the messengers again to see David, saying, Bring him up to me in the bed, that I may slay him.

19:16    使者進去，看見床上有神像，頭枕在山羊毛裝的枕頭上。
And when the messengers were come in, behold, there was an image in the bed, with a pillow of goats' hair for his bolster.

19:17    掃羅對米甲說，你為什麼這樣欺哄我，放我仇敵逃走呢。米甲回答說，他對我說，你放我走，不然我要殺你。
And Saul said unto Michal, Why hast thou deceived me so, and sent away mine enemy, that he is escaped? And Michal answered Saul, He said unto me, Let me go; why should I kill thee?

19:18    大衛逃避，來到拉瑪見撒母耳，將掃羅向他所行的事述說了一遍。他和撒母耳就往拿約去居住。
So David fled, and escaped, and came to Samuel to Ramah, and told him all that Saul had done to him. And he and Samuel went and dwelt in Naioth.

19:19    有人告訴掃羅，說大衛在拉瑪的拿約。
And it was told Saul, saying, Behold, David is at Naioth in Ramah.

19:20    掃羅打發人去捉拿大衛。去的人見有一班先知都受感說話，撒母耳站在其中監管他們。打發去的人也受神的靈感動說話。
And Saul sent messengers to take David: and when they saw the company of the prophets prophesying, and Samuel standing as appointed over them, the Spirit of God was upon the messengers of Saul, and they also prophesied.

19:21    有人將這事告訴掃羅，他又打發人去，他們也受感說話。掃羅第三次打發人去，他們也受感說話。
And when it was told Saul, he sent other messengers, and they prophesied likewise. And Saul sent messengers again the third time, and they prophesied also.

19:22    然後掃羅自己往拉瑪去，到了西沽的大井，問人說，撒母耳和大衛在哪裡呢。有人說，在拉瑪的拿約。
Then went he also to Ramah, and came to a great well that is in Sechu: and he asked and said, Where are Samuel and David? And one said, Behold, they be at Naioth in Ramah.

19:23    他就往拉瑪的拿約去。神的靈也感動他，一面走一面說話，直到拉瑪的拿約。
And he went thither to Naioth in Ramah: and the Spirit of God was upon him also, and he went on, and prophesied, until he came to Naioth in Ramah.

19:24    他就脫了衣服，在撒母耳面前受感說話，一晝一夜露體躺臥。因此有句俗語說，掃羅也列在先知中嗎。
And he stripped off his clothes also, and prophesied before Samuel in like manner, and lay down naked all that day and all that night. Wherefore they say, Is Saul also among the prophets?




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


20:1    大衛從拉瑪的拿約逃跑，來到約拿單那裡，對他說，我作了什麼。有什麼罪孽呢。在你父親面前犯了什麼罪，他竟尋索我的性命呢。
And David fled from Naioth in Ramah, and came and said before Jonathan, What have I done? what is mine iniquity? and what is my sin before thy father, that he seeketh my life?

20:2    約拿單回答說，斷然不是。你必不致死。我父作事，無論大小，沒有不叫我知道的。怎嗎獨有這事隱瞞我呢。決不如此。
And he said unto him, God forbid; thou shalt not die: behold, my father will do nothing either great or small, but that he will shew it me: and why should my father hide this thing from me? it is not so.

20:3    大衛又起誓說，你父親準知我在你眼前蒙恩。他心裡說，不如不叫約拿單知道，恐怕他愁煩。我指著永生的耶和華，又敢在你面前起誓，我離死不過一步。
And David sware moreover, and said, Thy father certainly knoweth that I have found grace in thine eyes; and he saith, Let not Jonathan know this, lest he be grieved: but truly as the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, there is but a step between me and death.

20:4    約拿單對大衛說，你心裡所求的，我必為你成就。
Then said Jonathan unto David, Whatsoever thy soul desireth, I will even do it for thee.

20:5    大衛對約拿單說，明日是初一，我當與王同席，求你容我去藏在田野，直到第三日晚上。
And David said unto Jonathan, Behold, to morrow is the new moon, and I should not fail to sit with the king at meat: but let me go, that I may hide myself in the field unto the third day at even.

20:6    你父親若見我不在席上，你就說，大衛切求我許他回本城伯利恆去，因為他全家在那裡獻年祭。
If thy father at all miss me, then say, David earnestly asked leave of me that he might run to Bethlehem his city: for there is a yearly sacrifice there for all the family.

20:7    你父親若說好，僕人就平安了。他若發怒，你就知道他決意要害我。
If he say thus, It is well; thy servant shall have peace: but if he be very wroth, then be sure that evil is determined by him.

20:8    求你施恩與僕人，因你在耶和華面前曾與僕人結盟。我若有罪，不如你自己殺我，何必將我交給你父親呢。
Therefore thou shalt deal kindly with thy servant; for thou hast brought thy servant into a covenant of the LORD with thee: notwithstanding, if there be in me iniquity, slay me thyself; for why shouldest thou bring me to thy father?

20:9    約拿單說，斷無此事。我若知道我父親決意害你，我豈不告訴你呢。
And Jonathan said, Far be it from thee: for if I knew certainly that evil were determined by my father to come upon thee, then would not I tell it thee?

20:10    大衛對約拿單說，你父親若用厲言回答你，誰來告訴我呢。
Then said David to Jonathan, Who shall tell me? or what if thy father answer thee roughly?

20:11    約拿單對大衛說，你我且往田野去。二人就往田野去了。
And Jonathan said unto David, Come, and let us go out into the field. And they went out both of them into the field.

20:12    約拿單對大衛說，願耶和華以色列的神為證。明日約在這時候，或第三日，我探我父親的意思，若向你有好意，我豈不打發人告訴你嗎。
And Jonathan said unto David, O LORD God of Israel, when I have sounded my father about to morrow any time, or the third day, and, behold, if there be good toward David, and I then send not unto thee, and shew it thee;

20:13    我父親若有意害你，我不告訴你使你平平安安地走，願耶和華重重地降罰與我。願耶和華與你同在，如同從前與我父親同在一樣。
The LORD do so and much more to Jonathan: but if it please my father to do thee evil, then I will shew it thee, and send thee away, that thou mayest go in peace: and the LORD be with thee, as he hath been with my father.

20:14    你要照耶和華的慈愛恩待我，不但我活著的時候免我死亡，
And thou shalt not only while yet I live shew me the kindness of the LORD, that I die not:

20:15    就是我死後，耶和華從地上剪除你仇敵的時候，你也永不可向我家絕了恩惠。
But also thou shalt not cut off thy kindness from my house for ever: no, not when the LORD hath cut off the enemies of David every one from the face of the earth.

20:16    於是約拿單與大衛家結盟，說，願耶和華藉大衛的仇敵追討背約的罪。
So Jonathan made a covenant with the house of David, saying, Let the LORD even require it at the hand of David's enemies.

20:17    約拿單因愛大衛如同愛自己的性命，就使他再起誓。
And Jonathan caused David to swear again, because he loved him: for he loved him as he loved his own soul.

20:18    約拿單對他說，明日是初一，你的座位空設，人必理會你不在那裡。
Then Jonathan said to David, To morrow is the new moon: and thou shalt be missed, because thy seat will be empty.

20:19    你等三日，就要速速下去，到你從前遇事所藏的地方，在以色磐石那裡等候。
And when thou hast stayed three days, then thou shalt go down quickly, and come to the place where thou didst hide thyself when the business was in hand, and shalt remain by the stone Ezel.

20:20    我要向磐石旁邊射三箭，如同射箭靶一樣。
And I will shoot three arrows on the side thereof, as though I shot at a mark.

20:21    我要打發童子，說，去把箭找來。我若對童子說，箭在後頭，把箭拿來，你就可以回來。我指著永生的耶和華起誓，你必平安無事。
And, behold, I will send a lad, saying, Go, find out the arrows. If I expressly say unto the lad, Behold, the arrows are on this side of thee, take them; then come thou: for there is peace to thee, and no hurt; as the LORD liveth.

20:22    我若對童子說，箭在前頭，你就要去，因為是耶和華打發你去的。
But if I say thus unto the young man, Behold, the arrows are beyond thee; go thy way: for the LORD hath sent thee away.

20:23    至於你我今日所說的話，有耶和華在你我中間為證，直到永遠。
And as touching the matter which thou and I have spoken of, behold, the LORD be between thee and me for ever.

20:24    大衛就去藏在田野。到了初一日，王坐席要吃飯。
So David hid himself in the field: and when the new moon was come, the king sat him down to eat meat.

20:25    王照常坐在靠牆的位上，約拿單侍立，押尼珥坐在掃羅旁邊，大衛的座位空設。
And the king sat upon his seat, as at other times, even upon a seat by the wall: and Jonathan arose, and Abner sat by Saul's side, and David's place was empty.

20:26    然而這日掃羅沒有說什麼，他想大衛遇事，偶染不潔，他必定是不潔。
Nevertheless Saul spake not any thing that day: for he thought, Something hath befallen him, he is not clean; surely he is not clean.

20:27    初二日大衛的座位還空設。掃羅問他兒子約拿單說，耶西的兒子為何昨日，今日沒有來吃飯呢。
And it came to pass on the morrow, which was the second day of the month, that David's place was empty: and Saul said unto Jonathan his son, Wherefore cometh not the son of Jesse to meat, neither yesterday, nor to day?

20:28    約拿單回答掃羅說，大衛切求我容他往伯利恆去。
And Jonathan answered Saul, David earnestly asked leave of me to go to Bethlehem:

20:29    他說，求你容我去，因為我家在城裡有獻祭的事。我長兄吩咐我去。如今我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你容我去見我的弟兄。所以大衛沒有赴王的席。
And he said, Let me go, I pray thee; for our family hath a sacrifice in the city; and my brother, he hath commanded me to be there: and now, if I have found favour in thine eyes, let me get away, I pray thee, and see my brethren. Therefore he cometh not unto the king's table.

20:30    掃羅向約拿單發怒，對他說，你這頑梗背逆之婦人所生的，我豈不知道你喜悅耶西的兒子，自取羞辱，以致你母親露體蒙羞嗎。
Then Saul's anger was kindled against Jonathan, and he said unto him, Thou son of the perverse rebellious woman, do not I know that thou hast chosen the son of Jesse to thine own confusion, and unto the confusion of thy mother's nakedness?

20:31    耶西的兒子若在世間活著，你和你的國位必站立不住。現在你要打發人去，將他捉拿交給我。他是該死的。
For as long as the son of Jesse liveth upon the ground, thou shalt not be established, nor thy kingdom. Wherefore now send and fetch him unto me, for he shall surely die.

20:32    約拿單對父親掃羅說，他為什麼該死呢。他作了什麼呢。
And Jonathan answered Saul his father, and said unto him, Wherefore shall he be slain? what hath he done?

20:33    掃羅向約拿單掄槍要刺他，約拿單就知道他父親決意要殺大衛。
And Saul cast a javelin at him to smite him: whereby Jonathan knew that it was determined of his father to slay David.

20:34    於是約拿單氣忿忿地從席上起來，在這初二日沒有吃飯。他因見父親羞辱大衛，就為大衛愁煩。
So Jonathan arose from the table in fierce anger, and did eat no meat the second day of the month: for he was grieved for David, because his father had done him shame.

20:35    次日早晨，約拿單按著與大衛約會的時候出到田野，有一個童子跟隨。
And it came to pass in the morning, that Jonathan went out into the field at the time appointed with David, and a little lad with him.

20:36    約拿單對童子說，你跑去，把我所射的箭找來。童子跑去，約拿單就把箭射在童子前頭。
And he said unto his lad, Run, find out now the arrows which I shoot. And as the lad ran, he shot an arrow beyond him.

20:37    童子到了約拿單落箭之地，約拿單呼叫童子說，箭不是在你前頭嗎。
And when the lad was come to the place of the arrow which Jonathan had shot, Jonathan cried after the lad, and said, Is not the arrow beyond thee?

20:38    約拿單又呼叫童子說，速速地去，不要遲延。童子就拾起箭來，回到主人那裡。
And Jonathan cried after the lad, Make speed, haste, stay not. And Jonathan's lad gathered up the arrows, and came to his master.

20:39    童子卻不知道這是什麼意思，只有約拿單和大衛知道。
But the lad knew not any thing: only Jonathan and David knew the matter.

20:40    約拿單將弓箭交給童子，吩咐說，你拿到城裡去。
And Jonathan gave his artillery unto his lad, and said unto him, Go, carry them to the city.

20:41    童子一去，大衛就從磐石的南邊出來，俯伏在地，拜了三拜。二人親嘴，彼此哭泣，大衛哭得更慟。
And as soon as the lad was gone, David arose out of a place toward the south, and fell on his face to the ground, and bowed himself three times: and they kissed one another, and wept one with another, until David exceeded.

20:42    約拿單對大衛說，我們二人曾指著耶和華的名起誓說，願耶和華在你我中間，並你我後裔中間為證，直到永遠。如今你平平安安地去吧。大衛就起身走了。約拿單也回城裡去了。
And Jonathan said to David, Go in peace, forasmuch as we have sworn both of us in the name of the LORD, saying, The LORD be between me and thee, and between my seed and thy seed for ever. And he arose and departed: and Jonathan went into the city.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


21:1    大衛到了挪伯祭司亞希米勒那裡，亞希米勒戰戰兢兢地出來迎接他，問他說，你為什麼獨自來，沒有人跟隨呢。
Then came David to Nob to Ahimelech the priest: and Ahimelech was afraid at the meeting of David, and said unto him, Why art thou alone, and no man with thee?

21:2    大衛回答祭司亞希米勒說，王吩咐我一件事說，我差遣你委託你的這件事，不要使人知道。故此我已派定少年人在某處等候我。
And David said unto Ahimelech the priest, The king hath commanded me a business, and hath said unto me, Let no man know any thing of the business whereabout I send thee, and what I have commanded thee: and I have appointed my servants to such and such a place.

21:3    現在你手下有什麼。求你給我五個餅或是別樣的食物。
Now therefore what is under thine hand? give me five loaves of bread in mine hand, or what there is present.

21:4    祭司對大衛說，我手下沒有尋常的餅，只有聖餅。若少年人沒有親近婦人才可以給。
And the priest answered David, and said, There is no common bread under mine hand, but there is hallowed bread; if the young men have kept themselves at least from women.

21:5    大衛對祭司說，實在約有三日我們沒有親近婦人。我出來的時候，雖是尋常行路，少年人的器皿還是潔淨的。何況今日不更是潔淨嗎。
And David answered the priest, and said unto him, Of a truth women have been kept from us about these three days, since I came out, and the vessels of the young men are holy, and the bread is in a manner common, yea, though it were sanctified this day in the vessel.

21:6    祭司就拿聖餅給他。因為在那裡沒有別樣餅，只有更換新餅，從耶和華面前撤下來的陳設餅。
So the priest gave him hallowed bread: for there was no bread there but the shewbread, that was taken from before the LORD, to put hot bread in the day when it was taken away.

21:7    當日有掃羅的一個臣子留在耶和華面前。他名叫多益，是以東人，作掃羅的司牧長。
Now a certain man of the servants of Saul was there that day, detained before the LORD; and his name was Doeg, an Edomite, the chiefest of the herdmen that belonged to Saul.

21:8    大衛問亞希米勒說，你手下有槍有刀沒有。因為王的事甚急，連刀劍器械我都沒有帶。
And David said unto Ahimelech, And is there not here under thine hand spear or sword? for I have neither brought my sword nor my weapons with me, because the king's business required haste.

21:9    祭司說，你在以拉谷殺非利士人歌利亞的那刀在這裡，裹在布中，放在以弗得後邊，你要就可以拿去。除此以外，再沒有別的。大衛說，這刀沒有可比的。求你給我。
And the priest said, The sword of Goliath the Philistine, whom thou slewest in the valley of Elah, behold, it is here wrapped in a cloth behind the ephod: if thou wilt take that, take it: for there is no other save that here. And David said, There is none like that; give it me.

21:10    那日大衛起來，躲避掃羅，逃到迦特王亞吉那裡。
And David arose, and fled that day for fear of Saul, and went to Achish the king of Gath.

21:11    亞吉的臣僕對亞吉說，這不是以色列國王大衛嗎。那裡的婦女跳舞唱和，不是指著他說掃羅殺死千千，大衛殺死萬萬嗎。
And the servants of Achish said unto him, Is not this David the king of the land? did they not sing one to another of him in dances, saying, Saul hath slain his thousands, and David his ten thousands?

21:12    大衛將這話放在心裡，甚懼怕迦特王亞吉，
And David laid up these words in his heart, and was sore afraid of Achish the king of Gath.

21:13    就在眾人面前改變了尋常的舉動，在他們手下假裝瘋癲，在城門的門扇上胡寫亂畫，使唾沫流在鬍子上。
And he changed his behaviour before them, and feigned himself mad in their hands, and scrabbled on the doors of the gate, and let his spittle fall down upon his beard.

21:14    亞吉對臣僕說，你們看，這人是瘋子。為什麼帶他到我這裡來呢。
Then said Achish unto his servants, Lo, ye see the man is mad: wherefore then have ye brought him to me?

21:15    我豈缺少瘋子，你們帶這人來在我面前瘋癲嗎。這人豈可進我的家呢。
Have I need of mad men, that ye have brought this fellow to play the mad man in my presence? shall this fellow come into my house?




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


22:1    大衛就離開那裡，逃到亞杜蘭洞。他的弟兄和他父親的全家聽見了，就都下到他那裡。
David therefore departed thence, and escaped to the cave Adullam: and when his brethren and all his father's house heard it, they went down thither to him.

22:2    凡受窘迫的，欠債的，心裡苦惱的都聚集到大衛那裡。大衛就作他們的頭目，跟隨他的約有四百人。
And every one that was in distress, and every one that was in debt, and every one that was discontented, gathered themselves unto him; and he became a captain over them: and there were with him about four hundred men.

22:3    大衛從那裡往摩押的米斯巴去，對摩押王說，求你容我父母搬來，住在你們這裡，等我知道神要為我怎樣行。
And David went thence to Mizpeh of Moab: and he said unto the king of Moab, Let my father and my mother, I pray thee, come forth, and be with you, till I know what God will do for me.



22:4    大衛領他父母到摩押王面前。大衛住山寨多少日子，他父母也住摩押王那裡多少日子。
And he brought them before the king of Moab: and they dwelt with him all the while that David was in the hold.

22:5    先知迦得對大衛說，你不要住在山寨，要往猶大地去。大衛就離開那裡，進入哈列的樹林。
And the prophet Gad said unto David, Abide not in the hold; depart, and get thee into the land of Judah. Then David departed, and came into the forest of Hareth.

22:6    掃羅在基比亞的拉瑪，坐在垂絲柳樹下，手裡拿著槍，眾臣僕侍立在左右。掃羅聽見大衛和跟隨他的人在何處，
When Saul heard that David was discovered, and the men that were with him, (now Saul abode in Gibeah under a tree in Ramah, having his spear in his hand, and all his servants were standing about him;)

22:7    就對左右侍立的臣僕說，便雅憫人哪，你們要聽我的話。耶西的兒子能將田地和葡萄園賜給你們各人嗎。能立你們各人作千夫長百夫長嗎。
Then Saul said unto his servants that stood about him, Hear now, ye Benjamites; will the son of Jesse give every one of you fields and vineyards, and make you all captains of thousands, and captains of hundreds;

22:8    你們竟都結黨害我。我的兒子與耶西的兒子結盟的時候，無人告訴我。我的兒子挑唆我的臣子謀害我，就如今日的光景，也無人告訴我，為我憂慮。
That all of you have conspired against me, and there is none that sheweth me that my son hath made a league with the son of Jesse, and there is none of you that is sorry for me, or sheweth unto me that my son hath stirred up my servant against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?

22:9    那時以東人多益站在掃羅的臣僕中，對他說，我曾看見耶西的兒子到了挪伯，亞希突的兒子亞希米勒那裡。
Then answered Doeg the Edomite, which was set over the servants of Saul, and said, I saw the son of Jesse coming to Nob, to Ahimelech the son of Ahitub.

22:10    亞希米勒為他求問耶和華，又給他食物，並給他殺非利士人歌利亞的刀。
And he enquired of the LORD for him, and gave him victuals, and gave him the sword of Goliath the Philistine.

22:11    王就打發人將祭司亞希突的兒子亞希米勒和他父親的全家，就是住挪伯的祭司都召了來。他們就來見王。
Then the king sent to call Ahimelech the priest, the son of Ahitub, and all his father's house, the priests that were in Nob: and they came all of them to the king.

22:12    掃羅說，亞希突的兒子，要聽我的話。他回答說，主阿，我在這裡。
And Saul said, Hear now, thou son of Ahitub. And he answered, Here I am, my lord.

22:13    掃羅對他說，你為什麼與耶西的兒子結黨害我，將食物和刀給他，又為他求問神，使他起來謀害我，就如今日的光景。
And Saul said unto him, Why have ye conspired against me, thou and the son of Jesse, in that thou hast given him bread, and a sword, and hast enquired of God for him, that he should rise against me, to lie in wait, as at this day?

22:14    亞希米勒回答王說，王的臣僕中有誰比大衛忠心呢。他是王的女婿，又是王的叄謀，並且在王家中是尊貴的。
Then Ahimelech answered the king, and said, And who is so faithful among all thy servants as David, which is the king's son in law, and goeth at thy bidding, and is honourable in thine house?

22:15    我豈是從今日才為他求問神呢。斷不是這樣。王不要將罪歸我和我父的全家。因為這事，無論大小，僕人都不知道。
Did I then begin to enquire of God for him? be it far from me: let not the king impute any thing unto his servant, nor to all the house of my father: for thy servant knew nothing of all this, less or more.

22:16    王說，亞希米勒阿，你和你父的全家都是該死的。
And the king said, Thou shalt surely die, Ahimelech, thou, and all thy father's house.

22:17    王就吩咐左右的侍衛說，你們去殺耶和華的祭司。因為他們幫助大衛，又知道大衛逃跑，竟沒有告訴我。掃羅的臣子卻不肯伸手殺耶和華的祭司。
And the king said unto the footmen that stood about him, Turn, and slay the priests of the LORD: because their hand also is with David, and because they knew when he fled, and did not shew it to me. But the servants of the king would not put forth their hand to fall upon the priests of the LORD.

22:18    王吩咐多益說，你去殺祭司吧。以東人多益就去殺祭司，那日殺了穿細麻布以弗得的八十五人。
And the king said to Doeg, Turn thou, and fall upon the priests. And Doeg the Edomite turned, and he fell upon the priests, and slew on that day fourscore and five persons that did wear a linen ephod.

22:19    又用刀將祭司城挪伯中的男女，孩童，吃奶的，和牛，羊，驢盡都殺滅。
And Nob, the city of the priests, smote he with the edge of the sword, both men and women, children and sucklings, and oxen, and asses, and sheep, with the edge of the sword.

22:20    亞希突的兒子亞希米勒有一個兒子，名叫亞比亞他，逃到大衛那裡。
And one of the sons of Ahimelech the son of Ahitub, named Abiathar, escaped, and fled after David.

22:21    亞比亞他將掃羅殺耶和華祭司的事告訴大衛。
And Abiathar shewed David that Saul had slain the LORD's priests.

22:22    大衛對亞比亞他說，那日我見以東人多益在那裡，就知道他必告訴掃羅。你父的全家喪命，都是因我的緣故。
And David said unto Abiathar, I knew it that day, when Doeg the Edomite was there, that he would surely tell Saul: I have occasioned the death of all the persons of thy father's house.

22:23    你可以住在我這裡，不要懼怕。因為尋索你命的就是尋索我的命。你在我這裡可得保全。
Abide thou with me, fear not: for he that seeketh my life seeketh thy life: but with me thou shalt be in safeguard.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


23:1    有人告訴大衛說，非利士人攻擊基伊拉，搶奪禾場。
Then they told David, saying, Behold, the Philistines fight against Keilah, and they rob the threshingfloors.

23:2    所以大衛求問耶和華說，我去攻打那些非利士人可以不可以。耶和華對大衛說，你可以去攻打非利士人，拯救基伊拉。
Therefore David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go and smite these Philistines? And the LORD said unto David, Go, and smite the Philistines, and save Keilah.

23:3    跟隨大衛的人對他說，我們在猶大地這裡尚且懼怕，何況往基伊拉去攻打非利士人的軍旅呢。
And David's men said unto him, Behold, we be afraid here in Judah: how much more then if we come to Keilah against the armies of the Philistines?



23:4    大衛又求問耶和華。耶和華回答說，你起身下基伊拉去，我必將非利士人交在你手裡。
Then David enquired of the LORD yet again. And the LORD answered him and said, Arise, go down to Keilah; for I will deliver the Philistines into thine hand.

23:5    大衛和跟隨他的人往基伊拉去，與非利士人打仗，大大殺敗他們，又奪獲他們的牲畜。這樣，大衛救了基伊拉的居民。
So David and his men went to Keilah, and fought with the Philistines, and brought away their cattle, and smote them with a great slaughter. So David saved the inhabitants of Keilah.

23:6    亞希米勒的兒子亞比亞他逃到基伊拉見大衛的時候，手裡拿著以弗得。
And it came to pass, when Abiathar the son of Ahimelech fled to David to Keilah, that he came down with an ephod in his hand.

23:7    有人告訴掃羅說，大衛到了基伊拉。掃羅說，他進了有門有閂的城，困閉在裡頭。這是神將他交在我手裡了。
And it was told Saul that David was come to Keilah. And Saul said, God hath delivered him into mine hand; for he is shut in, by entering into a town that hath gates and bars.

23:8    於是掃羅招聚眾民，要下去攻打基伊拉城，圍困大衛和跟隨他的人。
And Saul called all the people together to war, to go down to Keilah, to besiege David and his men.

23:9    大衛知道掃羅設計謀害他，就對祭司亞比亞他說，將以弗得拿過來。
And David knew that Saul secretly practised mischief against him; and he said to Abiathar the priest, Bring hither the ephod.

23:10    大衛禱告說，耶和華以色列的神阿，你僕人聽真了掃羅要往基伊拉來，為我的緣故滅城。
Then said David, O LORD God of Israel, thy servant hath certainly heard that Saul seeketh to come to Keilah, to destroy the city for my sake.

23:11    基伊拉人將我交在掃羅手裡不交。掃羅照著你僕人所聽的話下來不下來。耶和華以色列的神阿，求你指示僕人。耶和華說，掃羅必下來。
Will the men of Keilah deliver me up into his hand? will Saul come down, as thy servant hath heard? O LORD God of Israel, I beseech thee, tell thy servant. And the LORD said, He will come down.

23:12    大衛又說，基伊拉人將我和跟隨我的人交在掃羅手裡不交。耶和華說，必交出來。
Then said David, Will the men of Keilah deliver me and my men into the hand of Saul? And the LORD said, They will deliver thee up.

23:13    大衛和跟隨他的約有六百人，就起身出了基伊拉，往他們所能往的地方去。有人告訴掃羅，大衛離開基伊拉逃走。於是掃羅不出來了。
Then David and his men, which were about six hundred, arose and departed out of Keilah, and went whithersoever they could go. And it was told Saul that David was escaped from Keilah; and he forbare to go forth.

23:14    大衛住在曠野的山寨裡，常在西弗曠野的山地。掃羅天天尋索大衛，神卻不將大衛交在他手裡。
And David abode in the wilderness in strong holds, and remained in a mountain in the wilderness of Ziph. And Saul sought him every day, but God delivered him not into his hand.

23:15    大衛知道掃羅出來尋索他的命。那時，他住在西弗曠野的樹林裡。
And David saw that Saul was come out to seek his life: and David was in the wilderness of Ziph in a wood.

23:16    掃羅的兒子約拿單起身，往那樹林裡去見大衛，使他倚靠神得以堅固，
And Jonathan Saul's son arose, and went to David into the wood, and strengthened his hand in God.

23:17    對他說，不要懼怕。我父掃羅的手必不加害於你。你必作以色列的王，我也作你的宰相。這事我父掃羅知道了。
And he said unto him, Fear not: for the hand of Saul my father shall not find thee; and thou shalt be king over Israel, and I shall be next unto thee; and that also Saul my father knoweth.

23:18    於是二人在耶和華面前立約。大衛仍住在樹林裡，約拿單回家去了。
And they two made a covenant before the LORD: and David abode in the wood, and Jonathan went to his house.

23:19    西弗人上到基比亞見掃羅，說，大衛不是在我們那裡的樹林裡山寨中，曠野南邊的哈基拉山藏著嗎。
Then came up the Ziphites to Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself with us in strong holds in the wood, in the hill of Hachilah, which is on the south of Jeshimon?

23:20    王阿，請你隨你的心願下來，我們必親自將他交在王的手裡。
Now therefore, O king, come down according to all the desire of thy soul to come down; and our part shall be to deliver him into the king's hand.

23:21    掃羅說，願耶和華賜福與你們，因你們顧恤我。
And Saul said, Blessed be ye of the LORD; for ye have compassion on me.

23:22    請你們回去，再確實查明他的住處和行蹤，是誰看見他在那裡，因為我聽見人說他甚狡猾。
Go, I pray you, prepare yet, and know and see his place where his haunt is, and who hath seen him there: for it is told me that he dealeth very subtilly.

23:23    所以要看準他藏匿的地方，回來據實地告訴我，我就與你們同去。他若在猶大的境內，我必從千門萬戶中搜出他來。
See therefore, and take knowledge of all the lurking places where he hideth himself, and come ye again to me with the certainty, and I will go with you: and it shall come to pass, if he be in the land, that I will search him out throughout all the thousands of Judah.

23:24    西弗人就起身，在掃羅以先往西弗去。大衛和跟隨他的人卻在瑪雲曠野南邊的亞拉巴。
And they arose, and went to Ziph before Saul: but David and his men were in the wilderness of Maon, in the plain on the south of Jeshimon.

23:25    掃羅和跟隨他的人去尋梢大衛。有人告訴大衛，他就下到磐石，住在瑪雲的曠野。掃羅聽見，便在瑪雲的曠野追趕大衛。
Saul also and his men went to seek him. And they told David: wherefore he came down into a rock, and abode in the wilderness of Maon. And when Saul heard that, he pursued after David in the wilderness of Maon.

23:26    掃羅在山這邊走，大衛和跟隨他的人在山那邊走。大衛急忙躲避掃羅。因為掃羅和跟隨他的人，四面圍住大衛和跟隨他的人，要拿獲他們。
And Saul went on this side of the mountain, and David and his men on that side of the mountain: and David made haste to get away for fear of Saul; for Saul and his men compassed David and his men round about to take them.

23:27    忽有使者來報告掃羅說，非利士人犯境搶掠，請王快快回去。
But there came a messenger unto Saul, saying, Haste thee, and come; for the Philistines have invaded the land.

23:28    於是掃羅不追趕大衛，回去攻打非利士人。因此那地方名叫西拉哈瑪希羅結。
Wherefore Saul returned from pursuing after David, and went against the Philistines: therefore they called that place Selahammahlekoth.

23:29    大衛從那裡上去，住在隱基底的山寨裡。
And David went up from thence, and dwelt in strong holds at Engedi.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


24:1    掃羅追趕非利士人回來，有人告訴他說，大衛在隱基底的曠野。
And it came to pass, when Saul was returned from following the Philistines, that it was told him, saying, Behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.

24:2    掃羅就從以色列人中挑選三千精兵，率領他們往野羊的磐石去，尋索大衛和跟隨他的人。
Then Saul took three thousand chosen men out of all Israel, and went to seek David and his men upon the rocks of the wild goats.

24:3    到了路旁的羊圈，在那裡有洞，掃羅進去大解。大衛和跟隨他的人正藏在洞裡的深處。
And he came to the sheepcotes by the way, where was a cave; and Saul went in to cover his feet: and David and his men remained in the sides of the cave.

24:4    跟隨的人對大衛說，耶和華曾應許你說，我要將你的仇敵交在你手裡，你可以任意待他。如今時候到了。大衛就起來，悄悄地割下掃羅外袍的衣襟。
And the men of David said unto him, Behold the day of which the LORD said unto thee, Behold, I will deliver thine enemy into thine hand, that thou mayest do to him as it shall seem good unto thee. Then David arose, and cut off the skirt of Saul's robe privily.

24:5    隨後大衛心中自責，因為割下掃羅的衣襟。
And it came to pass afterward, that David's heart smote him, because he had cut off Saul's skirt.

24:6    對跟隨他的人說，我的主乃是耶和華的受膏者，我在耶和華面前萬不敢伸手害他，因他是耶和華的受膏者。
And he said unto his men, The LORD forbid that I should do this thing unto my master, the LORD's anointed, to stretch forth mine hand against him, seeing he is the anointed of the LORD.

24:7    大衛用這話攔住跟隨他的人，不容他們起來害掃羅。掃羅起來，從洞裡出去行路。
So David stayed his servants with these words, and suffered them not to rise against Saul. But Saul rose up out of the cave, and went on his way.

24:8    隨後大衛也起來，從洞裡出去，呼叫掃羅說，我主，我王。掃羅回頭觀看，大衛就屈身，臉伏於地下拜。
David also arose afterward, and went out of the cave, and cried after Saul, saying, My lord the king. And when Saul looked behind him, David stooped with his face to the earth, and bowed himself.

24:9    大衛對掃羅說，你為何聽信人的讒言，說大衛想要害你呢。
And David said to Saul, Wherefore hearest thou men's words, saying, Behold, David seeketh thy hurt?

24:10    今日你親眼看見在洞中，耶和華將你交在我手裡。有人叫我殺你，我卻愛惜你，說，我不敢伸手害我的主，因為他是耶和華的受膏者。
Behold, this day thine eyes have seen how that the LORD had delivered thee to day into mine hand in the cave: and some bade me kill thee: but mine eye spared thee; and I said, I will not put forth mine hand against my lord; for he is the LORD's anointed.

24:11    我父阿，看看你外袍的衣襟在我手中。我割下你的衣襟，沒有殺你。你由此可以知道我沒有惡意叛逆你。你雖然獵取我的命，我卻沒有得罪你。
Moreover, my father, see, yea, see the skirt of thy robe in my hand: for in that I cut off the skirt of thy robe, and killed thee not, know thou and see that there is neither evil nor transgression in mine hand, and I have not sinned against thee; yet thou huntest my soul to take it.

24:12    願耶和華在你我中間判斷是非，在你身上為我伸冤，我卻不親手加害於你。
The LORD judge between me and thee, and the LORD avenge me of thee: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.

24:13    古人有句俗語說，惡事出於惡人。我卻不親手加害於你。
As saith the proverb of the ancients, Wickedness proceedeth from the wicked: but mine hand shall not be upon thee.

24:14    以色列王出來要尋梢誰呢。追趕誰呢。不過追趕一條死狗，一個虼蚤就是了。
After whom is the king of Israel come out? after whom dost thou pursue? after a dead dog, after a flea.

24:15    願耶和華在你我中間施行審判，斷定是非，並且鑑察，為我伸冤，救我脫離你的手。
The LORD therefore be judge, and judge between me and thee, and see, and plead my cause, and deliver me out of thine hand.

24:16    大衛向掃羅說完這話，掃羅說，我兒大衛，這是你的聲音嗎。就放聲大哭，
And it came to pass, when David had made an end of speaking these words unto Saul, that Saul said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And Saul lifted up his voice, and wept.

24:17    對大衛說，你比我公義。因為你以善待我，我卻以惡待你。
And he said to David, Thou art more righteous than I: for thou hast rewarded me good, whereas I have rewarded thee evil.

24:18    你今日顯明是以善待我。因為耶和華將我交在你手裡，你卻沒有殺我。
And thou hast shewed this day how that thou hast dealt well with me: forasmuch as when the LORD had delivered me into thine hand, thou killedst me not.

24:19    人若遇見仇敵，豈肯放他平安無事地去呢。願耶和華因你今日向我所行的，以善報你。
For if a man find his enemy, will he let him go well away? wherefore the LORD reward thee good for that thou hast done unto me this day.

24:20    我也知道你必要作王，以色列的國必堅立在你手裡。
And now, behold, I know well that thou shalt surely be king, and that the kingdom of Israel shall be established in thine hand.

24:21    現在你要指著耶和華向我起誓，不剪除我的後裔，在我父家不滅沒我的名。
Swear now therefore unto me by the LORD, that thou wilt not cut off my seed after me, and that thou wilt not destroy my name out of my father's house.

24:22    於是大衛向掃羅起誓，掃羅就回家去。大衛和跟隨他的人上山寨去了。
And David sware unto Saul. And Saul went home; but David and his men gat them up unto the hold.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


25:1    撒母耳死了，以色列眾人聚集，為他哀哭，將他葬在拉瑪他自己的墳墓（原文作房屋）裡。大衛起身，下到巴蘭的曠野。
And Samuel died; and all the Israelites were gathered together, and lamented him, and buried him in his house at Ramah. And David arose, and went down to the wilderness of Paran.

25:2    在瑪雲有一個人，他的產業在迦密，是一個大富戶，有三千綿羊，一千山羊。他正在迦密剪羊毛。
And there was a man in Maon, whose possessions were in Carmel; and the man was very great, and he had three thousand sheep, and a thousand goats: and he was shearing his sheep in Carmel.

25:3    那人名叫拿八，是迦勒族的人。他的妻名叫亞比該，是聰明俊美的婦人。拿八為人剛愎凶惡。
Now the name of the man was Nabal; and the name of his wife Abigail: and she was a woman of good understanding, and of a beautiful countenance: but the man was churlish and evil in his doings; and he was of the house of Caleb.

25:4    大衛在曠野聽見說拿八剪羊毛，
And David heard in the wilderness that Nabal did shear his sheep.

25:5    大衛就打發十個僕人，吩咐他們說，你們上迦密去見拿八，提我的名問他安。
And David sent out ten young men, and David said unto the young men, Get you up to Carmel, and go to Nabal, and greet him in my name:

25:6    要對那富戶如此說，願你平安，願你家平安，願你一切所有的都平安。
And thus shall ye say to him that liveth in prosperity, Peace be both to thee, and peace be to thine house, and peace be unto all that thou hast.

25:7    現在我聽說有人為你剪羊毛，你的牧人在迦密的時候和我們在一處，我們沒有欺負他們，他們也未曾失落什麼。
And now I have heard that thou hast shearers: now thy shepherds which were with us, we hurt them not, neither was there ought missing unto them, all the while they were in Carmel.

25:8    可以問你的僕人，他們必告訴你。所以願我的僕人在你眼前蒙恩，因為是在好日子來的。求你隨手取點賜與僕人和你兒子大衛。
Ask thy young men, and they will shew thee. Wherefore let the young men find favour in thine eyes: for we come in a good day: give, I pray thee, whatsoever cometh to thine hand unto thy servants, and to thy son David.

25:9    大衛的僕人到了，將這話提大衛的名都告訴了拿八，就住了口。
And when David's young men came, they spake to Nabal according to all those words in the name of David, and ceased.

25:10    拿八回答大衛的僕人說，大衛是誰。耶西的兒子是誰。近來悖逆主人奔逃的僕人甚多，
And Nabal answered David's servants, and said, Who is David? and who is the son of Jesse? there be many servants now a days that break away every man from his master.

25:11    我豈可將飲食和為我剪羊毛人所宰的肉給我不知道從哪裡來的人呢。
Shall I then take my bread, and my water, and my flesh that I have killed for my shearers, and give it unto men, whom I know not whence they be?



25:12    大衛的僕人就轉身從原路回去，照這話告訴大衛。
So David's young men turned their way, and went again, and came and told him all those sayings.

25:13    大衛向跟隨他的人說，你們各人都要帶上刀。眾人就都帶上刀，大衛也帶上刀。跟隨大衛上去的約有四百人，留下二百人看守器具。
And David said unto his men, Gird ye on every man his sword. And they girded on every man his sword; and David also girded on his sword: and there went up after David about four hundred men; and two hundred abode by the stuff.

25:14    有拿八的一個僕人告訴拿八的妻亞比該說，大衛從曠野打發使者來問我主人的安，主人卻辱罵他們。
But one of the young men told Abigail, Nabal's wife, saying, Behold, David sent messengers out of the wilderness to salute our master; and he railed on them.

25:15    但是那些人待我們甚好。我們在田野與他們來往的時候，沒有受他們的欺負，也未曾失落什麼。
But the men were very good unto us, and we were not hurt, neither missed we any thing, as long as we were conversant with them, when we were in the fields:

25:16    我們在他們那裡牧羊的時候，他們晝夜作我們的保障。
They were a wall unto us both by night and day, all the while we were with them keeping the sheep.

25:17    所以你當籌劃，看怎樣行才好。不然，禍患定要臨到我主人和他全家。他性情凶暴，無人敢與他說話。
Now therefore know and consider what thou wilt do; for evil is determined against our master, and against all his household: for he is such a son of Belial, that a man cannot speak to him.

25:18    亞比該急忙將二百餅，兩皮袋酒，五隻收拾好了的羊，五細亞烘好了的穗子，一百葡萄餅，二百無花果餅，都馱在驢上，
Then Abigail made haste, and took two hundred loaves, and two bottles of wine, and five sheep ready dressed, and five measures of parched corn, and an hundred clusters of raisins, and two hundred cakes of figs, and laid them on asses.

25:19    對僕人說，你們前頭走，我隨著你們去。這事她卻沒有告訴丈夫拿八。
And she said unto her servants, Go on before me; behold, I come after you. But she told not her husband Nabal.

25:20    亞比該騎著驢，正下山坡，見大衛和跟隨他的人從對面下來，亞比該就迎接他們。
And it was so, as she rode on the ass, that she came down by the covert of the hill, and, behold, David and his men came down against her; and she met them.

25:21    大衛曾說，我在曠野為那人看守所有的，以致他一樣不失落，實在是徒然了。他向我以惡報善。
Now David had said, Surely in vain have I kept all that this fellow hath in the wilderness, so that nothing was missed of all that pertained unto him: and he hath requited me evil for good.

25:22    凡屬拿八的男丁，我若留一個到明日早晨，願神重重降罰與我。
So and more also do God unto the enemies of David, if I leave of all that pertain to him by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.

25:23    亞比該見大衛，便急忙下驢，在大衛面前臉伏於地叩拜，
And when Abigail saw David, she hasted, and lighted off the ass, and fell before David on her face, and bowed herself to the ground,

25:24    俯伏在大衛的腳前，說，我主阿，願這罪歸我。求你容婢女向你進言，更求你聽婢女的話。
And fell at his feet, and said, Upon me, my lord, upon me let this iniquity be: and let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak in thine audience, and hear the words of thine handmaid.

25:25    我主不要理這壞人拿八，他的性情與他的名相稱。他名叫拿八（就是愚頑的意思），他為人果然愚頑。但我主所打發的僕人，婢女並沒有看見。
Let not my lord, I pray thee, regard this man of Belial, even Nabal: for as his name is, so is he; Nabal is his name, and folly is with him: but I thine handmaid saw not the young men of my lord, whom thou didst send.

25:26    我主阿，耶和華既然阻止你親手報仇，取流血的罪，所以我指著永生的耶和華，又敢在你面前起誓說，願你的仇敵和謀害你的人都像拿八一樣。
Now therefore, my lord, as the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, seeing the LORD hath withholden thee from coming to shed blood, and from avenging thyself with thine own hand, now let thine enemies, and they that seek evil to my lord, be as Nabal.

25:27    如今求你將婢女送來的禮物給跟隨你的僕人。
And now this blessing which thine handmaid hath brought unto my lord, let it even be given unto the young men that follow my lord.

25:28    求你饒恕婢女的罪過。耶和華必為我主建立堅固的家，因我主為耶和華爭戰。並且在你平生的日子查不出有什麼過來。
I pray thee, forgive the trespass of thine handmaid: for the LORD will certainly make my lord a sure house; because my lord fighteth the battles of the LORD, and evil hath not been found in thee all thy days.

25:29    雖有人起來追逼你，尋索你的性命，你的性命卻在耶和華你的神那裡蒙保護，如包裹寶器一樣。你仇敵的性命，耶和華必拋去，如用機弦甩石一樣。
Yet a man is risen to pursue thee, and to seek thy soul: but the soul of my lord shall be bound in the bundle of life with the LORD thy God; and the souls of thine enemies, them shall he sling out, as out of the middle of a sling.

25:30    *
And it shall come to pass, when the LORD shall have done to my lord according to all the good that he hath spoken concerning thee, and shall have appointed thee ruler over Israel;

25:31    我主現在若不親手報仇流無辜人的血，到了耶和華照所應許你的話賜福與你，立你作以色列的王，那時我主必不至心裡不安，覺得良心有虧。耶和華賜福與我主的時候，求你記念婢女
That this shall be no grief unto thee, nor offence of heart unto my lord, either that thou hast shed blood causeless, or that my lord hath avenged himself: but when the LORD shall have dealt well with my lord, then remember thine handmaid.

25:32    大衛對亞比該說，耶和華以色列的神是應當稱頌的，因為他今日使你來迎接我。
And David said to Abigail, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, which sent thee this day to meet me:

25:33    你和你的見識也當稱讚。因為你今日攔阻我親手報仇，流人的血。
And blessed be thy advice, and blessed be thou, which hast kept me this day from coming to shed blood, and from avenging myself with mine own hand.

25:34    我指著阻止我加害於你的耶和華以色列永生的神起誓，你若不速速地來迎接我，到明日早晨，凡屬拿八的男丁必定不留一個。
For in very deed, as the LORD God of Israel liveth, which hath kept me back from hurting thee, except thou hadst hasted and come to meet me, surely there had not been left unto Nabal by the morning light any that pisseth against the wall.

25:35    大衛受了亞比該送來的禮物，就對她說，我聽了你的話，準了你的情面，你可以平平安安地回家吧。
So David received of her hand that which she had brought him, and said unto her, Go up in peace to thine house; see, I have hearkened to thy voice, and have accepted thy person.

25:36    亞比該到拿八那裡，見他在家裡設擺筵席，如同王的筵席。拿八快樂大醉。亞比該無論大小事都沒有告訴他，就等到次日早晨。
And Abigail came to Nabal; and, behold, he held a feast in his house, like the feast of a king; and Nabal's heart was merry within him, for he was very drunken: wherefore she told him nothing, less or more, until the morning light.

25:37    到了早晨，拿八醒了酒，他的妻將這些事都告訴他，他就魂不附體，身僵如石頭一般。
But it came to pass in the morning, when the wine was gone out of Nabal, and his wife had told him these things, that his heart died within him, and he became as a stone.

25:38    過了十天，耶和華擊打拿八，他就死了。
And it came to pass about ten days after, that the LORD smote Nabal, that he died.

25:39    大衛聽見拿八死了，就說，應當稱頌耶和華，因他伸了拿八羞辱我的冤，又阻止僕人行惡。也使拿八的惡歸到拿八的頭上。於是大衛打發人去，與亞比該說，要娶她為妻。
And when David heard that Nabal was dead, he said, Blessed be the LORD, that hath pleaded the cause of my reproach from the hand of Nabal, and hath kept his servant from evil: for the LORD hath returned the wickedness of Nabal upon his own head. And David sent and communed with Abigail, to take her to him to wife.

25:40    大衛的僕人到了迦密見亞比該，對她說，大衛打發我們來見你，想要娶你為妻。
And when the servants of David were come to Abigail to Carmel, they spake unto her, saying, David sent us unto thee, to take thee to him to wife.

25:41    亞比該就起來，俯伏在地，說，我情願作婢女，洗我主僕人的腳。
And she arose, and bowed herself on her face to the earth, and said, Behold, let thine handmaid be a servant to wash the feet of the servants of my lord.

25:42    亞比該立刻起身，騎上驢，帶著五個使女，跟從大衛的使者去了，就作了大衛的妻。
And Abigail hasted, and arose, and rode upon an ass, with five damsels of hers that went after her; and she went after the messengers of David, and became his wife.

25:43    大衛先娶了耶斯列人亞希暖，她們二人都作了他的妻。
David also took Ahinoam of Jezreel; and they were also both of them his wives.

25:44    掃羅已將他的女兒米甲，就是大衛的妻，給了迦琳人拉億的兒子帕提為妻。
But Saul had given Michal his daughter, David's wife, to Phalti the son of Laish, which was of Gallim.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


26:1    西弗人到基比亞見掃羅，說，大衛不是在曠野前的哈基拉山藏著嗎。
And the Ziphites came unto Saul to Gibeah, saying, Doth not David hide himself in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon?

26:2    掃羅就起身，帶領以色列人中挑選的三千精兵下到西弗的曠野，要在那裡尋索大衛。
Then Saul arose, and went down to the wilderness of Ziph, having three thousand chosen men of Israel with him, to seek David in the wilderness of Ziph.

26:3    掃羅在曠野前的哈基拉山，在道路上安營。大衛住在曠野，聽說掃羅到曠野來追尋他，
And Saul pitched in the hill of Hachilah, which is before Jeshimon, by the way. But David abode in the wilderness, and he saw that Saul came after him into the wilderness.

26:4    就打發人去探聽，便知道掃羅果然來到。
David therefore sent out spies, and understood that Saul was come in very deed.

26:5    大衛起來，到掃羅安營的地方，看見掃羅和他的元帥尼珥的兒子押尼珥睡臥之處。掃羅睡在輜重營裡，百姓安營在他周圍。
And David arose, and came to the place where Saul had pitched: and David beheld the place where Saul lay, and Abner the son of Ner, the captain of his host: and Saul lay in the trench, and the people pitched round about him.

26:6    大衛對赫人亞希米勒和洗魯雅的兒子約押的兄弟亞比篩說，誰同我下到掃羅營裡去。亞比篩說，我同你下去。
Then answered David and said to Ahimelech the Hittite, and to Abishai the son of Zeruiah, brother to Joab, saying, Who will go down with me to Saul to the camp? And Abishai said, I will go down with thee.

26:7    於是大衛和亞比篩夜間到了百姓那裡，見掃羅睡在輜重營裡。他的槍在頭旁，插在地上。押尼珥和百姓睡在他周圍。
So David and Abishai came to the people by night: and, behold, Saul lay sleeping within the trench, and his spear stuck in the ground at his bolster: but Abner and the people lay round about him.

26:8    亞比篩對大衛說，現在神將你的仇敵交在你手裡，求你容我拿槍將他刺透在地，一刺就成，不用再刺。
Then said Abishai to David, God hath delivered thine enemy into thine hand this day: now therefore let me smite him, I pray thee, with the spear even to the earth at once, and I will not smite him the second time.

26:9    大衛對亞比篩說，不可害死他。有誰伸手害耶和華的受膏者而無罪呢。
And David said to Abishai, Destroy him not: for who can stretch forth his hand against the LORD's anointed, and be guiltless?

26:10    大衛又說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，他或被耶和華擊打，或是死期到了，或是出戰陣亡。
David said furthermore, As the LORD liveth, the LORD shall smite him; or his day shall come to die; or he shall descend into battle, and perish.

26:11    我在耶和華面前，萬不敢伸手害耶和華的受膏者。現在你可以將他頭旁的槍和水瓶拿來，我們就走。
The LORD forbid that I should stretch forth mine hand against the LORD's anointed: but, I pray thee, take thou now the spear that is at his bolster, and the cruse of water, and let us go.

26:12    大衛從掃羅的頭旁拿了槍和水瓶，二人就走了，沒有人看見，沒有人知道，也沒有人醒起，都睡著了，因為耶和華使他們沉沉地睡了。
So David took the spear and the cruse of water from Saul's bolster; and they gat them away, and no man saw it, nor knew it, neither awaked: for they were all asleep; because a deep sleep from the LORD was fallen upon them.

26:13    大衛過到那邊去，遠遠地站在山頂上，與他們相離甚遠。
Then David went over to the other side, and stood on the top of an hill afar off; a great space being between them:

26:14    大衛呼叫百姓和尼珥的兒子押尼珥說，押尼珥阿，你為何不答應呢。押尼珥說，你是誰。竟敢呼叫王呢。
And David cried to the people, and to Abner the son of Ner, saying, Answerest thou not, Abner? Then Abner answered and said, Who art thou that criest to the king?

26:15    大衛對押尼珥說，你不是個勇士嗎。以色列中誰能比你呢。民中有人進來要害死王你的主，你為何沒有保護王你的主呢。
And David said to Abner, Art not thou a valiant man? and who is like to thee in Israel? wherefore then hast thou not kept thy lord the king? for there came one of the people in to destroy the king thy lord.

26:16    你這樣是不好的。我指著永生的耶和華起誓，你們都是該死的。因為沒有保護你們的主，就是耶和華的受膏者。現在你看看王頭旁的槍和水瓶在哪裡。
This thing is not good that thou hast done. As the LORD liveth, ye are worthy to die, because ye have not kept your master, the LORD's anointed. And now see where the king's spear is, and the cruse of water that was at his bolster.

26:17    掃羅聽出是大衛的聲音，就說，我兒大衛，這是你的聲音嗎。大衛說，主我的王阿，是我的聲音。
And Saul knew David's voice, and said, Is this thy voice, my son David? And David said, It is my voice, my lord, O king.

26:18    又說，我作了什麼。我手裡有什麼惡事。我主竟追趕僕人呢。
And he said, Wherefore doth my lord thus pursue after his servant? for what have I done? or what evil is in mine hand?

26:19    求我主我王聽僕人的話，若是耶和華激發你攻擊我，願耶和華收納祭物。若是人激發你，願他在耶和華面前受咒詛。因為他現今趕逐我，不容我在耶和華的產業上有分，說，你去事奉別神吧。
Now therefore, I pray thee, let my lord the king hear the words of his servant. If the LORD have stirred thee up against me, let him accept an offering: but if they be the children of men, cursed be they before the LORD; for they have driven me out this day from abiding in the inheritance of the LORD, saying, Go, serve other gods.

26:20    現在求王不要使我的血流在離耶和華遠的地方。以色列王出來是尋梢一個虼蚤，如同人在山上獵取一個鷓鴣一般。
Now therefore, let not my blood fall to the earth before the face of the LORD: for the king of Israel is come out to seek a flea, as when one doth hunt a partridge in the mountains.

26:21    掃羅說，我有罪了。我兒大衛，你可以回來，因你今日看我的性命為寶貴。我必不再加害於你。我是糊塗人，大大錯了。
Then said Saul, I have sinned: return, my son David: for I will no more do thee harm, because my soul was precious in thine eyes this day: behold, I have played the fool, and have erred exceedingly.

26:22    大衛說，王的槍在這裡，可以吩咐一個僕人過來拿去。
And David answered and said, Behold the king's spear! and let one of the young men come over and fetch it.

26:23    今日耶和華將王交在我手裡，我卻不肯伸手害耶和華的受膏者。耶和華必照各人的公義誠實報應他。
The LORD render to every man his righteousness and his faithfulness; for the LORD delivered thee into my hand to day, but I would not stretch forth mine hand against the LORD's anointed.

26:24    我今日重看你的性命，願耶和華也重看我的性命，並且拯救我脫離一切患難。
And, behold, as thy life was much set by this day in mine eyes, so let my life be much set by in the eyes of the LORD, and let him deliver me out of all tribulation.

26:25    掃羅對大衛說，我兒大衛，願你得福。你必作大事，也必得勝。於是大衛起行，掃羅回他的本處去了。
Then Saul said to David, Blessed be thou, my son David: thou shalt both do great things, and also shalt still prevail. So David went on his way, and Saul returned to his place.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


27:1    大衛心裡說，必有一日我死在掃羅手裡，不如逃奔非利士地去。掃羅見我不在以色列的境內，就必絕望，不再尋索我。這樣我可以脫離他的手。
And David said in his heart, I shall now perish one day by the hand of Saul: there is nothing better for me than that I should speedily escape into the land of the Philistines; and Saul shall despair of me, to seek me any more in any coast of Israel: so shall I escape out of his hand.

27:2    於是大衛起身，和跟隨他的六百人投奔迦特王瑪俄的兒子亞吉去了。
And David arose, and he passed over with the six hundred men that were with him unto Achish, the son of Maoch, king of Gath.

27:3    大衛和他的兩個妻，就是耶斯列人亞希暖和作過拿八妻的迦密人亞比該，並跟隨他的人，連各人的眷屬，都住在迦特的亞吉那裡。
And David dwelt with Achish at Gath, he and his men, every man with his household, even David with his two wives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the Carmelitess, Nabal's wife.

27:4    有人告訴掃羅說，大衛逃到迦特。掃羅就不再尋索他了。
And it was told Saul that David was fled to Gath: and he sought no more again for him.

27:5    大衛對亞吉說，我若在你眼前蒙恩，求你在京外的城邑中賜我一個地方居住。僕人何必與王同住京都呢。
And David said unto Achish, If I have now found grace in thine eyes, let them give me a place in some town in the country, that I may dwell there: for why should thy servant dwell in the royal city with thee?

27:6    當日亞吉將洗革拉賜給他，因此洗革拉屬猶大王，直到今日。
Then Achish gave him Ziklag that day: wherefore Ziklag pertaineth unto the kings of Judah unto this day.

27:7    大衛在非利士地住了一年零四個月。
And the time that David dwelt in the country of the Philistines was a full year and four months.

27:8    大衛和跟隨他的人上去，侵奪基述人，基色人，亞瑪力人之地。這幾族歷來住在那地，從書珥直到埃及。
And David and his men went up, and invaded the Geshurites, and the Gezrites, and the Amalekites: for those nations were of old the inhabitants of the land, as thou goest to Shur, even unto the land of Egypt.

27:9    大衛擊殺那地的人，無論男女都沒有留下一個，又奪獲牛，羊，駱駝，驢，並衣服，回來見亞吉。
And David smote the land, and left neither man nor woman alive, and took away the sheep, and the oxen, and the asses, and the camels, and the apparel, and returned, and came to Achish.

27:10    亞吉說，你們今日侵奪了什麼地方呢。大衛說，侵奪了猶大的南方，耶拉篾的南方，基尼的南方。
And Achish said, Whither have ye made a road to day? And David said, Against the south of Judah, and against the south of the Jerahmeelites, and against the south of the Kenites.

27:11    無論男女，大衛沒有留下一個帶到迦特來。他說，恐怕他們將我們的事告訴人，說大衛住在非利士地的時候常常這樣行。
And David saved neither man nor woman alive, to bring tidings to Gath, saying, Lest they should tell on us, saying, So did David, and so will be his manner all the while he dwelleth in the country of the Philistines.

27:12    亞吉信了大衛，心裡說，大衛使本族以色列人憎惡他，所以他必永遠作我的僕人了。
And Achish believed David, saying, He hath made his people Israel utterly to abhor him; therefore he shall be my servant for ever.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


28:1    那時，非利士人聚集軍旅，要與以色列人打仗。亞吉對大衛說，你當知道，你和跟隨你的人都要隨我出戰。
And it came to pass in those days, that the Philistines gathered their armies together for warfare, to fight with Israel. And Achish said unto David, Know thou assuredly, that thou shalt go out with me to battle, thou and thy men.

28:2    大衛對亞吉說，僕人所能作的事，王必知道。亞吉對大衛說，這樣，我立你永遠作我的護衛長。
And David said to Achish, Surely thou shalt know what thy servant can do. And Achish said to David, Therefore will I make thee keeper of mine head for ever.

28:3    那時撒母耳已經死了，以色列眾人為他哀哭，葬他在拉瑪，就是在他本城裡。掃羅曾在國內不容有交鬼的和行巫術的人。
Now Samuel was dead, and all Israel had lamented him, and buried him in Ramah, even in his own city. And Saul had put away those that had familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land.

28:4    非利士人聚集，來到書念安營。掃羅聚集以色列眾人在基利波安營。
And the Philistines gathered themselves together, and came and pitched in Shunem: and Saul gathered all Israel together, and they pitched in Gilboa.

28:5    掃羅看見非利士的軍旅就懼怕，心中發顫。
And when Saul saw the host of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart greatly trembled.

28:6    掃羅求問耶和華，耶和華卻不藉夢，或烏陵，或先知回答他。
And when Saul enquired of the LORD, the LORD answered him not, neither by dreams, nor by Urim, nor by prophets.

28:7    掃羅吩咐臣僕說，當為我找一個交鬼的婦人，我好去問她。臣僕說，在隱多珥有一個交鬼的婦人。
Then said Saul unto his servants, Seek me a woman that hath a familiar spirit, that I may go to her, and enquire of her. And his servants said to him, Behold, there is a woman that hath a familiar spirit at Endor.

28:8    於是掃羅改了裝，穿上別的衣服，帶著兩個人，夜裡去見那婦人。掃羅說，求你用交鬼的法術，將我所告訴你的死人，為我招上來。
And Saul disguised himself, and put on other raiment, and he went, and two men with him, and they came to the woman by night: and he said, I pray thee, divine unto me by the familiar spirit, and bring me him up, whom I shall name unto thee.

28:9    婦人對他說，你知道掃羅從國中剪除交鬼的和行巫術的。你為何陷害我的性命，使我死呢。
And the woman said unto him, Behold, thou knowest what Saul hath done, how he hath cut off those that have familiar spirits, and the wizards, out of the land: wherefore then layest thou a snare for my life, to cause me to die?

28:10    掃羅向婦人指著耶和華起誓說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，你必不因這事受刑。
And Saul sware to her by the LORD, saying, As the LORD liveth, there shall no punishment happen to thee for this thing.



28:11    婦人說，我為你招誰上來呢。回答說，為我招撒母耳上來。
Then said the woman, Whom shall I bring up unto thee? And he said, Bring me up Samuel.

28:12    婦人看見撒母耳，就大聲呼叫，對掃羅說，你是掃羅，為什麼欺哄我呢。
And when the woman saw Samuel, she cried with a loud voice: and the woman spake to Saul, saying, Why hast thou deceived me? for thou art Saul.

28:13    王對婦人說，不要懼怕，你看見了什麼呢。婦人對掃羅說，我看見有神從地裡上來。
And the king said unto her, Be not afraid: for what sawest thou? And the woman said unto Saul, I saw gods ascending out of the earth.

28:14    掃羅說，他是怎樣的形狀。婦人說，有一個老人上來，身穿長衣。掃羅知道是撒母耳，就屈身，臉伏於地下拜。
And he said unto her, What form is he of? And she said, An old man cometh up; and he is covered with a mantle. And Saul perceived that it was Samuel, and he stooped with his face to the ground, and bowed himself.

28:15    撒母耳對掃羅說，你為什麼攪擾我，招我上來呢。掃羅回答說，我甚窘急。因為非利士人攻擊我，神也離開我，不再藉先知或夢迴答我。因此請你上來，好指示我應當怎樣行。
And Samuel said to Saul, Why hast thou disquieted me, to bring me up? And Saul answered, I am sore distressed; for the Philistines make war against me, and God is departed from me, and answereth me no more, neither by prophets, nor by dreams: therefore I have called thee, that thou mayest make known unto me what I shall do.

28:16    撒母耳說，耶和華已經離開你，且與你為敵，你何必問我呢。
Then said Samuel, Wherefore then dost thou ask of me, seeing the LORD is departed from thee, and is become thine enemy?

28:17    耶和華照他藉我說的話，已經從你手裡奪去國權，賜與別人，就是大衛。
And the LORD hath done to him, as he spake by me: for the LORD hath rent the kingdom out of thine hand, and given it to thy neighbour, even to David:

28:18    因你沒有聽從耶和華的命令。他惱怒亞瑪力人，你沒有滅絕他們，所以今日耶和華向你這樣行，
Because thou obeyedst not the voice of the LORD, nor executedst his fierce wrath upon Amalek, therefore hath the LORD done this thing unto thee this day.

28:19    並且耶和華必將你和以色列人交在非利士人的手裡。明日你和你眾子必與我在一處了。耶和華必將以色列的軍兵交在非利士人手裡。
Moreover the LORD will also deliver Israel with thee into the hand of the Philistines: and to morrow shalt thou and thy sons be with me: the LORD also shall deliver the host of Israel into the hand of the Philistines.

28:20    掃羅猛然仆倒，挺身在地，因撒母耳的話甚是懼怕。那一晝一夜沒有吃什麼，就毫無氣力。
Then Saul fell straightway all along on the earth, and was sore afraid, because of the words of Samuel: and there was no strength in him; for he had eaten no bread all the day, nor all the night.

28:21    婦人到掃羅面前，見他極其驚恐，對他說，婢女聽從你的話，不顧惜自己的性命，遵從你所吩咐的。
And the woman came unto Saul, and saw that he was sore troubled, and said unto him, Behold, thine handmaid hath obeyed thy voice, and I have put my life in my hand, and have hearkened unto thy words which thou spakest unto me.

28:22    現在求你聽婢女的話，容我在你面前擺上一點食物，你吃了，可以有氣力行路。
Now therefore, I pray thee, hearken thou also unto the voice of thine handmaid, and let me set a morsel of bread before thee; and eat, that thou mayest have strength, when thou goest on thy way.

28:23    掃羅不肯，說，我不吃。但他的僕人和婦人再三勸他，他才聽了他們的話，從地上起來，坐在床上。
But he refused, and said, I will not eat. But his servants, together with the woman, compelled him; and he hearkened unto their voice. So he arose from the earth, and sat upon the bed.

28:24    婦人急忙將家裡的一隻肥牛犢宰了，又拿面摶成無酵餅烤了，
And the woman had a fat calf in the house; and she hasted, and killed it, and took flour, and kneaded it, and did bake unleavened bread thereof:

28:25    擺在掃羅和他僕人面前。他們吃完，當夜就起身走了。
And she brought it before Saul, and before his servants; and they did eat. Then they rose up, and went away that night.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


29:1    非利士人將他們的軍旅聚到亞弗。以色列人在耶斯列的泉旁安營。
Now the Philistines gathered together all their armies to Aphek: and the Israelites pitched by a fountain which is in Jezreel.

29:2    非利士人的首領各率軍隊，或百或千，挨次前進。大衛和跟隨他的人同著亞吉跟在後邊。
And the lords of the Philistines passed on by hundreds, and by thousands: but David and his men passed on in the rereward with Achish.

29:3    非利士人的首領說，這些希伯來人在這裡作什麼呢。亞吉對他們說，這不是以色列王掃羅的臣子大衛嗎。他在我這裡有些年日了。自從他投降我直到今日，我未曾見他有過錯。
Then said the princes of the Philistines, What do these Hebrews here? And Achish said unto the princes of the Philistines, Is not this David, the servant of Saul the king of Israel, which hath been with me these days, or these years, and I have found no fault in him since he fell unto me unto this day?

29:4    非利士人的首領向亞吉發怒，對他說，你要叫這人回你所安置他的地方，不可叫他同我們出戰，恐怕他在陣上反為我們的敵人。他用什麼與他主人復和呢。豈不是用我們這些人的首級嗎？
And the princes of the Philistines were wroth with him; and the princes of the Philistines said unto him, Make this fellow return, that he may go again to his place which thou hast appointed him, and let him not go down with us to battle, lest in the battle he be an adversary to us: for wherewith should he reconcile himself unto his master? should it not be with the heads of these men?

29:5    從前以色列的婦女跳舞唱和說，掃羅殺死千千，大衛殺死萬萬，所說的不是這個大衛嗎。
Is not this David, of whom they sang one to another in dances, saying, Saul slew his thousands, and David his ten thousands?

29:6    亞吉叫大衛來，對他說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，你是正直人。你隨我在軍中出入，我看你甚好。自從你投奔我到如今，我未曾見你有什麼過失。只是眾首領不喜悅你。
Then Achish called David, and said unto him, Surely, as the LORD liveth, thou hast been upright, and thy going out and thy coming in with me in the host is good in my sight: for I have not found evil in thee since the day of thy coming unto me unto this day: nevertheless the lords favour thee not.

29:7    現在你可以平平安安地回去，免得非利士人的首領不歡喜你。
Wherefore now return, and go in peace, that thou displease not the lords of the Philistines.

29:8    大衛對亞吉說，我作了什麼呢。自從僕人到你面前，直到今日，你查出我有什麼過錯，使我不去攻擊主我王的仇敵呢。
And David said unto Achish, But what have I done? and what hast thou found in thy servant so long as I have been with thee unto this day, that I may not go fight against the enemies of my lord the king?

29:9    亞吉說，我知道你在我眼前是好人，如同神的使者一般。只是非利士人的首領說，這人不可同我們出戰。
And Achish answered and said to David, I know that thou art good in my sight, as an angel of God: notwithstanding the princes of the Philistines have said, He shall not go up with us to the battle.

29:10    故此你和跟隨你的人，就是你本主的僕人，要明日早晨起來，等到天亮回去吧。
Wherefore now rise up early in the morning with thy master's servants that are come with thee: and as soon as ye be up early in the morning, and have light, depart.

29:11    於是大衛和跟隨他的人早晨起來，回往非利士地去。非利士人也上耶斯列去了。
So David and his men rose up early to depart in the morning, to return into the land of the Philistines. And the Philistines went up to Jezreel.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


30:1    第三日，大衛和跟隨他的人到了洗革拉。亞瑪力人已經侵奪南地，攻破洗革拉，用火焚燒，
And it came to pass, when David and his men were come to Ziklag on the third day, that the Amalekites had invaded the south, and Ziklag, and smitten Ziklag, and burned it with fire;

30:2    擄了城內的婦女和其中的大小人口，卻沒有殺一個，都帶著走了。
And had taken the women captives, that were therein: they slew not any, either great or small, but carried them away, and went on their way.

30:3    大衛和跟隨他的人到了那城，不料，城已燒燬，他們的妻子兒女都被擄去了。
So David and his men came to the city, and, behold, it was burned with fire; and their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, were taken captives.

30:4    大衛和跟隨他的人就放聲大哭，直哭得沒有氣力。
Then David and the people that were with him lifted up their voice and wept, until they had no more power to weep.

30:5    大衛的兩個妻耶斯列人亞希暖和作過拿八妻的迦密人亞比該，也被擄去了。
And David's two wives were taken captives, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite.

30:6    大衛甚是焦急，因眾人為自己的兒女苦惱，說，要用石頭打死他。大衛卻倚靠耶和華他的神，心裡堅固。
And David was greatly distressed; for the people spake of stoning him, because the soul of all the people was grieved, every man for his sons and for his daughters: but David encouraged himself in the LORD his God.

30:7    大衛對亞希米勒的兒子祭司亞比亞他說，請你將以弗得拿過來。亞比亞他就將以弗得拿到大衛面前。
And David said to Abiathar the priest, Ahimelech's son, I pray thee, bring me hither the ephod. And Abiathar brought thither the ephod to David.

30:8    大衛求問耶和華說，我追趕敵軍，追得上追不上呢。耶和華說，你可以追，必追得上，都救得回來。
And David enquired at the LORD, saying, Shall I pursue after this troop? shall I overtake them? And he answered him, Pursue: for thou shalt surely overtake them, and without fail recover all.

30:9    於是，大衛和跟隨他的六百人來到比梭溪。有不能前去的就留在那裡。
So David went, he and the six hundred men that were with him, and came to the brook Besor, where those that were left behind stayed.

30:10    大衛卻帶著四百人往前追趕，有二百人疲乏，不能過比梭溪，所以留在那裡。
But David pursued, he and four hundred men: for two hundred abode behind, which were so faint that they could not go over the brook Besor.

30:11    這四百人在田野遇見一個埃及人，就帶他到大衛面前，給他餅吃，給他水喝，
And they found an Egyptian in the field, and brought him to David, and gave him bread, and he did eat; and they made him drink water;

30:12    又給他一塊無花果餅，兩個葡萄餅。他吃了，就精神復原。因為他三日三夜沒有吃餅，沒有喝水。
And they gave him a piece of a cake of figs, and two clusters of raisins: and when he had eaten, his spirit came again to him: for he had eaten no bread, nor drunk any water, three days and three nights.

30:13    大衛問他說，你是屬誰的。你是哪裡的人。他回答說，我是埃及的少年人，是亞瑪力人的奴僕。因我三日前患病，我主人就把我撇棄了。
And David said unto him, To whom belongest thou? and whence art thou? And he said, I am a young man of Egypt, servant to an Amalekite; and my master left me, because three days agone I fell sick.

30:14    我們侵奪了基利提的南方和屬猶大的地，並迦勒地的南方，又用火燒了洗革拉。
We made an invasion upon the south of the Cherethites, and upon the coast which belongeth to Judah, and upon the south of Caleb; and we burned Ziklag with fire.

30:15    大衛問他說，你肯領我們到敵軍那裡不肯。他回答說，你要向我指著神起誓，不殺我，也不將我交在我主人手裡，我就領你下到敵軍那裡。
And David said to him, Canst thou bring me down to this company? And he said, Swear unto me by God, that thou wilt neither kill me, nor deliver me into the hands of my master, and I will bring thee down to this company.

30:16    那人領大衛下去，見他們散在地上，吃喝跳舞，因為從非利士地和猶大地所擄來的財物甚多。
And when he had brought him down, behold, they were spread abroad upon all the earth, eating and drinking, and dancing, because of all the great spoil that they had taken out of the land of the Philistines, and out of the land of Judah.

30:17    大衛從黎明直到次日晚上，擊殺他們，除了四百騎駱駝的少年人之外，沒有一個逃脫的。
And David smote them from the twilight even unto the evening of the next day: and there escaped not a man of them, save four hundred young men, which rode upon camels, and fled.

30:18    亞瑪力人所擄去的財物，大衛全都奪回，並救回他的兩個妻來。
And David recovered all that the Amalekites had carried away: and David rescued his two wives.

30:19    凡亞瑪力人所擄去的，無論大小，兒女，財物，大衛都奪回來，沒有失落一個。
And there was nothing lacking to them, neither small nor great, neither sons nor daughters, neither spoil, nor any thing that they had taken to them: David recovered all.

30:20    大衛所奪來的牛群羊群，跟隨他的人趕在原有的群畜前邊，說，這是大衛的掠物。
And David took all the flocks and the herds, which they drave before those other cattle, and said, This is David's spoil.

30:21    大衛到了那疲乏不能跟隨，留在比梭溪的二百人那裡。他們出來迎接大衛並跟隨的人。大衛前來問他們安。
And David came to the two hundred men, which were so faint that they could not follow David, whom they had made also to abide at the brook Besor: and they went forth to meet David, and to meet the people that were with him: and when David came near to the people, he saluted them.

30:22    跟隨大衛人中的惡人和匪類說，這些人既然沒有和我們同去，我們所奪的財物就不分給他們，只將他們各人的妻子兒女給他們，使他們帶去就是了。
Then answered all the wicked men and men of Belial, of those that went with David, and said, Because they went not with us, we will not give them ought of the spoil that we have recovered, save to every man his wife and his children, that they may lead them away, and depart.

30:23    大衛說，弟兄們，耶和華所賜給我們的，不可不分給他們。因為他保佑我們，將那攻擊我們的敵軍交在我們手裡。
Then said David, Ye shall not do so, my brethren, with that which the LORD hath given us, who hath preserved us, and delivered the company that came against us into our hand.

30:24    這事誰肯依從你們呢。上陣的得多少，看守器具的也得多少。應當大家平分。
For who will hearken unto you in this matter? but as his part is that goeth down to the battle, so shall his part be that tarrieth by the stuff: they shall part alike.

30:25    大衛定此為以色列的律例典章，從那日直到今日。
And it was so from that day forward, that he made it a statute and an ordinance for Israel unto this day.

30:26    大衛到了洗革拉，從掠物中取些送給他朋友猶大的長老，說，這是從耶和華仇敵那裡奪來的，送你們為禮物。
And when David came to Ziklag, he sent of the spoil unto the elders of Judah, even to his friends, saying, Behold a present for you of the spoil of the enemies of the LORD;

30:27    他送禮物給住伯特利的，南地拉末的，雅提珥的。
To them which were in Bethel, and to them which were in south Ramoth, and to them which were in Jattir,

30:28    住亞羅珥的，息末的，以實提莫的。
And to them which were in Aroer, and to them which were in Siphmoth, and to them which were in Eshtemoa,

30:29    住拉哈勒的，耶拉篾各城的，基尼各城的。
And to them which were in Rachal, and to them which were in the cities of the Jerahmeelites, and to them which were in the cities of the Kenites,

30:30    住何珥瑪的，歌拉珊的，亞撻的。
And to them which were in Hormah, and to them which were in Chorashan, and to them which were in Athach,

30:31    住希伯侖的，並大衛和跟隨他的人素來所到之處的人。
And to them which were in Hebron, and to all the places where David himself and his men were wont to haunt.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記上(1 Samuel) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


31:1    非利士人與以色列人爭戰。以色列人在非利士人面前逃跑，在基利波有被殺仆倒的。
Now the Philistines fought against Israel: and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.

31:2    非利士人緊追掃羅和他兒子們，就殺了掃羅的兒子約拿單，亞比拿達，麥基舒亞。
And the Philistines followed hard upon Saul and upon his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Melchishua, Saul's sons.

31:3    勢派甚大，掃羅被弓箭手追上，射傷甚重，
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him; and he was sore wounded of the archers.

31:4    就吩咐拿他兵器的人說，你拔出刀來，將我刺死，免得那些未受割禮的人來刺我，凌辱我。但拿兵器的人甚懼怕，不肯刺他。掃羅就自己伏在刀上死了。
Then said Saul unto his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and thrust me through, and abuse me. But his armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. Therefore Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.

31:5    拿兵器的人見掃羅已死，也伏在刀上死了。
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise upon his sword, and died with him.

31:6    這樣，掃羅和他三個兒子，與拿他兵器的人，以及跟隨他的人，都一同死亡。
So Saul died, and his three sons, and his armourbearer, and all his men, that same day together.

31:7    住平原那邊並約旦河西的以色列人，見以色列軍兵逃跑，掃羅和他兒子都死了，也就棄城逃跑。非利士人便來住在其中。
And when the men of Israel that were on the other side of the valley, and they that were on the other side Jordan, saw that the men of Israel fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, they forsook the cities, and fled; and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.

31:8    次日，非利士人來剝那被殺之人的衣服，看見掃羅和他三個兒子仆倒在基利波山，
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his three sons fallen in mount Gilboa.

31:9    就割下他的首級，剝了他的軍裝，打發人到（或作送到）非利士地的四境，報信與他們廟裡的偶像和眾民。
And they cut off his head, and stripped off his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to publish it in the house of their idols, and among the people.

31:10    又將掃羅的軍裝放在亞斯她錄廟裡，將他的屍身釘在伯珊的城牆上。
And they put his armour in the house of Ashtaroth: and they fastened his body to the wall of Bethshan.

31:11    基列雅比的居民聽見非利士人向掃羅所行的事，
And when the inhabitants of Jabeshgilead heard of that which the Philistines had done to Saul;

31:12    他們中間所有的勇士就起身，走了一夜，將掃羅和他兒子的屍身從伯珊城牆上取下來，送到雅比那裡，用火燒了。
All the valiant men arose, and went all night, and took the body of Saul and the bodies of his sons from the wall of Bethshan, and came to Jabesh, and burnt them there.

31:13    將他們骸骨葬在雅比的垂絲柳樹下，就禁食七日。
And they took their bones, and buried them under a tree at Jabesh, and fasted seven days.




