
舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


1:1    掃羅死後，大衛擊殺亞瑪力人回來，在洗革拉住了兩天。
Now it came to pass after the death of Saul, when David was returned from the slaughter of the Amalekites, and David had abode two days in Ziklag;

1:2    第三天，有一人從掃羅的營裡出來，衣服撕裂，頭蒙灰塵，到大衛面前伏地叩拜。
It came even to pass on the third day, that, behold, a man came out of the camp from Saul with his clothes rent, and earth upon his head: and so it was, when he came to David, that he fell to the earth, and did obeisance.

1:3    大衛問他說，你從哪裡來。他說，我從以色列的營裡逃來。
And David said unto him, From whence comest thou? And he said unto him, Out of the camp of Israel am I escaped.

1:4    大衛又問他說，事情怎樣。請你告訴我。他回答說，百姓從陣上逃跑，也有許多人仆倒死亡。掃羅和他兒子約拿單也死了。
And David said unto him, How went the matter? I pray thee, tell me. And he answered, That the people are fled from the battle, and many of the people also are fallen and dead; and Saul and Jonathan his son are dead also.

1:5    大衛問報信的少年人說，你怎嗎知道掃羅和他兒子約拿單死了呢。
And David said unto the young man that told him, How knowest thou that Saul and Jonathan his son be dead?

1:6    報信的少年人說，我偶然到基利波山，看見掃羅伏在自己槍上，有戰車，馬兵緊緊地追他。
And the young man that told him said, As I happened by chance upon mount Gilboa, behold, Saul leaned upon his spear; and, lo, the chariots and horsemen followed hard after him.

1:7    他回頭看見我，就呼叫我。我說，我在這裡。
And when he looked behind him, he saw me, and called unto me. And I answered, Here am I.

1:8    他問我說，你是什麼人。我說，我是亞瑪力人。
And he said unto me, Who art thou? And I answered him, I am an Amalekite.

1:9    他說，請你來，將我殺死。因為痛苦抓住我，我的生命尚存。
He said unto me again, Stand, I pray thee, upon me, and slay me: for anguish is come upon me, because my life is yet whole in me.

1:10    我準知他仆倒必不能活，就去將他殺死，把他頭上的冠冕，臂上的鐲子拿到我主這裡。
So I stood upon him, and slew him, because I was sure that he could not live after that he was fallen: and I took the crown that was upon his head, and the bracelet that was on his arm, and have brought them hither unto my lord.

1:11    大衛就撕裂衣服，跟隨他的人也是如此，
Then David took hold on his clothes, and rent them; and likewise all the men that were with him:

1:12    而且悲哀哭號，禁食到晚上，是因掃羅和他兒子約拿單，並耶和華的民以色列家的人，倒在刀下。
And they mourned, and wept, and fasted until even, for Saul, and for Jonathan his son, and for the people of the LORD, and for the house of Israel; because they were fallen by the sword.

1:13    大衛問報信的少年人說，你是哪裡的人。他說，我是亞瑪力客人的兒子。
And David said unto the young man that told him, Whence art thou? And he answered, I am the son of a stranger, an Amalekite.

1:14    大衛說，你伸手殺害耶和華的受膏者，怎嗎不畏懼呢。
And David said unto him, How wast thou not afraid to stretch forth thine hand to destroy the LORD's anointed?

1:15    大衛叫了一個少年人來，說，你去殺他吧。
And David called one of the young men, and said, Go near, and fall upon him. And he smote him that he died.

1:16    大衛對他說，你流人血的罪歸到自己的頭上，因為你親口作見證說，我殺了耶和華的受膏者。少年人就把他殺了。
And David said unto him, Thy blood be upon thy head; for thy mouth hath testified against thee, saying, I have slain the LORD's anointed.

1:17    大衛作哀歌，吊掃羅和他兒子約拿單，
And David lamented with this lamentation over Saul and over Jonathan his son:

1:18    且吩咐將這歌教導猶大人。這歌名叫弓歌，寫在雅煞珥書上。
(Also he bade them teach the children of Judah the use of the bow: behold, it is written in the book of Jasher.)

1:19    歌中說，以色列阿，你尊榮者在山上被殺。大英雄何竟死亡。
The beauty of Israel is slain upon thy high places: how are the mighty fallen!

1:20    不要在迦特報告。不要在亞實基倫街上傳揚。免得非利士的女子歡樂。免得未受割禮之人的女子矜誇。
Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Askelon; lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice, lest the daughters of the uncircumcised triumph.

1:21    基利波山哪，願你那裡沒有雨露。願你田地無土產可作供物。因為英雄的盾牌在那裡被汙丟棄。掃羅的盾牌彷佛未曾抹油。
Ye mountains of Gilboa, let there be no dew, neither let there be rain, upon you, nor fields of offerings: for there the shield of the mighty is vilely cast away, the shield of Saul, as though he had not been anointed with oil.

1:22    約拿單的弓箭非流敵人的血不退縮。掃羅的刀劍非剖勇士的油不收回。
From the blood of the slain, from the fat of the mighty, the bow of Jonathan turned not back, and the sword of Saul returned not empty.

1:23    掃羅和約拿單，活時相悅相愛，死時也不分離。他們比鷹更快，比獅子還強。
Saul and Jonathan were lovely and pleasant in their lives, and in their death they were not divided: they were swifter than eagles, they were stronger than lions.

1:24    以色列的女子阿，當為掃羅哭號。他曾使你們穿硃紅色的美衣，使你們衣服有黃金的妝飾。
Ye daughters of Israel, weep over Saul, who clothed you in scarlet, with other delights, who put on ornaments of gold upon your apparel.

1:25    英雄何竟在陣上仆倒。約拿單何竟在山上被殺。
How are the mighty fallen in the midst of the battle! O Jonathan, thou wast slain in thine high places.

1:26    我兄約拿單哪，我為你悲傷。我甚喜悅你。你向我發的愛情奇妙非常，過於婦女的愛情。
I am distressed for thee, my brother Jonathan: very pleasant hast thou been unto me: thy love to me was wonderful, passing the love of women.

1:27    英雄何竟仆倒。戰具何竟滅沒。
How are the mighty fallen, and the weapons of war perished!




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


2:1    此後，大衛問耶和華說，我上猶大的一個城去可以嗎。耶和華說，可以。大衛說，我上哪一個城去呢。耶和華說，上希伯侖去。
And it came to pass after this, that David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And the LORD said unto him, Go up. And David said, Whither shall I go up? And he said, Unto Hebron.

2:2    於是大衛和他的兩個妻，一個是耶斯列人亞希暖，一個是作過迦密人拿八妻的亞比該，都上那裡去了。
So David went up thither, and his two wives also, Ahinoam the Jezreelitess, and Abigail Nabal's wife the Carmelite.

2:3    大衛也將跟隨他的人和他們各人的眷屬一同帶上去，住在希伯侖的城邑中。
And his men that were with him did David bring up, every man with his household: and they dwelt in the cities of Hebron.

2:4    猶大人來到希伯侖，在那裡膏大衛作猶大家的王。有人告訴大衛說，葬埋掃羅的是基列雅比人。
And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. And they told David, saying, That the men of Jabeshgilead were they that buried Saul.

2:5    大衛就差人去見基列雅比人，對他們說，你們厚待你們的主掃羅，將他葬埋。願耶和華賜福與你們。
And David sent messengers unto the men of Jabeshgilead, and said unto them, Blessed be ye of the LORD, that ye have shewed this kindness unto your lord, even unto Saul, and have buried him.

2:6    你們既行了這事，願耶和華以慈愛誠實待你們，我也要為此厚待你們。
And now the LORD shew kindness and truth unto you: and I also will requite you this kindness, because ye have done this thing.

2:7    現在你們的主掃羅死了，猶大家已經膏我作他們的王，所以你們要剛強奮勇。
Therefore now let your hands be strengthened, and be ye valiant: for your master Saul is dead, and also the house of Judah have anointed me king over them.

2:8    掃羅的元帥尼珥的兒子押尼珥，曾將掃羅的兒子伊施波設帶過河，到瑪哈念，
But Abner the son of Ner, captain of Saul's host, took Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and brought him over to Mahanaim;

2:9    立他作王，治理基列，亞書利，耶斯列，以法蓮，便雅憫，和以色列眾人。
And made him king over Gilead, and over the Ashurites, and over Jezreel, and over Ephraim, and over Benjamin, and over all Israel.

2:10    掃羅的兒子伊施波設登基的時候年四十歲，作以色列王二年。惟獨猶大家歸從大衛。
Ishbosheth Saul's son was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel, and reigned two years. But the house of Judah followed David.

2:11    大衛在希伯侖作猶大家的王，共七年零六個月。
And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months.

2:12    尼珥的兒子押尼珥和掃羅的兒子伊施波設的僕人從瑪哈念出來，往基遍去。
And Abner the son of Ner, and the servants of Ishbosheth the son of Saul, went out from Mahanaim to Gibeon.

2:13    洗魯雅的兒子約押和大衛的僕人也出來，在基遍池旁與他們相遇。一班坐在池這邊，一班坐在池那邊。
And Joab the son of Zeruiah, and the servants of David, went out, and met together by the pool of Gibeon: and they sat down, the one on the one side of the pool, and the other on the other side of the pool.

2:14    押尼珥對約押說，讓少年人起來，在我們面前戲耍吧。約押說，可以。
And Abner said to Joab, Let the young men now arise, and play before us. And Joab said, Let them arise.

2:15    就按著定數起來，屬掃羅兒子伊施波設的便雅憫人過去十二名，大衛的僕人也過去十二名，
Then there arose and went over by number twelve of Benjamin, which pertained to Ishbosheth the son of Saul, and twelve of the servants of David.

2:16    彼此揪頭，用刀刺肋，一同仆倒。所以，那地叫作希利甲哈素林，就在基遍。
And they caught every one his fellow by the head, and thrust his sword in his fellow's side; so they fell down together: wherefore that place was called Helkathhazzurim, which is in Gibeon.

2:17    那日的戰事凶猛，押尼珥和以色列人敗在大衛的僕人面前。
And there was a very sore battle that day; and Abner was beaten, and the men of Israel, before the servants of David.

2:18    在那裡有洗魯雅的三個兒子，約押，亞比篩，亞撒黑。亞撒黑腳快如野鹿般。
And there were three sons of Zeruiah there, Joab, and Abishai, and Asahel: and Asahel was as light of foot as a wild roe.

2:19    亞撒黑追趕押尼珥，直追趕他不偏左右。
And Asahel pursued after Abner; and in going he turned not to the right hand nor to the left from following Abner.

2:20    押尼珥回頭說，你是亞撒黑嗎。回答說，是。
Then Abner looked behind him, and said, Art thou Asahel? And he answered, I am.

2:21    押尼珥對他說，你或轉向左轉向右，拿住一個少年人，剝去他的戰衣。亞撒黑卻不肯轉開不追趕他。
And Abner said to him, Turn thee aside to thy right hand or to thy left, and lay thee hold on one of the young men, and take thee his armour. But Asahel would not turn aside from following of him.

2:22    押尼珥又對亞撒黑說，你轉開不追趕我吧。我何必殺你呢。若殺你，有什麼臉見你哥哥約押呢。
And Abner said again to Asahel, Turn thee aside from following me: wherefore should I smite thee to the ground? how then should I hold up my face to Joab thy brother?

2:23    亞撒黑仍不肯轉開。故此，押尼珥就用槍？？刺入他的肚腹，甚至槍從背後透出，亞撒黑就在那裡仆倒而死。眾人趕到亞撒黑仆倒而死的地方，就都站住。
Howbeit he refused to turn aside: wherefore Abner with the hinder end of the spear smote him under the fifth rib, that the spear came out behind him; and he fell down there, and died in the same place: and it came to pass, that as many as came to the place where Asahel fell down and died stood still.

2:24    約押和亞比篩追趕押尼珥，日落的時候，到了通基遍曠野的路旁，基亞對面的亞瑪山。
Joab also and Abishai pursued after Abner: and the sun went down when they were come to the hill of Ammah, that lieth before Giah by the way of the wilderness of Gibeon.

2:25    便雅憫人聚集，跟隨押尼珥站在一個山頂上。
And the children of Benjamin gathered themselves together after Abner, and became one troop, and stood on the top of an hill.

2:26    押尼珥呼叫約押說，刀劍豈可永遠殺人嗎。你豈不知終久必有苦楚嗎。你要等何時才叫百姓回去，不追趕弟兄呢。
Then Abner called to Joab, and said, Shall the sword devour for ever? knowest thou not that it will be bitterness in the latter end? how long shall it be then, ere thou bid the people return from following their brethren?

2:27    約押說，我指著永生的神起誓，你若不說戲耍的那句話，今日早晨百姓就回去，不追趕弟兄了。
And Joab said, As God liveth, unless thou hadst spoken, surely then in the morning the people had gone up every one from following his brother.

2:28    於是約押吹角，眾民就站住，不再追趕以色列人，也不再打仗了。
So Joab blew a trumpet, and all the people stood still, and pursued after Israel no more, neither fought they any more.

2:29    押尼珥和跟隨他的人整夜經過亞拉巴，過約旦河，走過畢倫，到了瑪哈念。
And Abner and his men walked all that night through the plain, and passed over Jordan, and went through all Bithron, and they came to Mahanaim.

2:30    約押追趕押尼珥回來，聚集眾民，見大衛的僕人中缺少了十九個人和亞撒黑。
And Joab returned from following Abner: and when he had gathered all the people together, there lacked of David's servants nineteen men and Asahel.

2:31    但大衛的僕人殺了便雅憫人和跟隨押尼珥的人，共三百六十名。
But the servants of David had smitten of Benjamin, and of Abner's men, so that three hundred and threescore men died.

2:32    眾人將亞撒黑送到伯利恆，葬在他父親的墳墓裡。約押和跟隨他的人走了一夜，天亮的時候到了希伯侖。
And they took up Asahel, and buried him in the sepulchre of his father, which was in Bethlehem. And Joab and his men went all night, and they came to Hebron at break of day.





舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


3:1    掃羅家和大衛家爭戰許久。大衛家日見強盛。掃羅家日見衰弱。
Now there was long war between the house of Saul and the house of David: but David waxed stronger and stronger, and the house of Saul waxed weaker and weaker.

3:2    大衛在希伯侖得了幾個兒子，長子暗嫩是耶斯列人亞希暖所生的。
And unto David were sons born in Hebron: and his firstborn was Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess;

3:3    次子基利押（基利押在歷代上三章一節作但以利）是作過迦密人拿八的妻亞比該所生的。三子押沙龍是基述王達買的女兒瑪迦所生的。
And his second, Chileab, of Abigail the wife of Nabal the Carmelite; and the third, Absalom the son of Maacah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur;

3:4    四子亞多尼雅是哈及所生的。五子示法提雅是亞比她所生的。
And the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith; and the fifth, Shephatiah the son of Abital;

3:5    六子以特念是大衛的妻以格拉所生的。大衛這六個兒子都是在希伯侖生的。
And the sixth, Ithream, by Eglah David's wife. These were born to David in Hebron.

3:6    掃羅家和大衛家爭戰的時候，押尼珥在掃羅家大有權勢。
And it came to pass, while there was war between the house of Saul and the house of David, that Abner made himself strong for the house of Saul.

3:7    掃羅有一妃嬪，名叫利斯巴，是愛亞的女兒。一日，伊施波設對押尼珥說，你為什麼與我父的妃嬪同房呢。
And Saul had a concubine, whose name was Rizpah, the daughter of Aiah: and Ishbosheth said to Abner, Wherefore hast thou gone in unto my father's concubine?

3:8    押尼珥因伊施波設的話就甚發怒，說，我豈是猶大的狗頭呢。我恩待你父掃羅的家和他的弟兄，朋友，不將你交在大衛手裡，今日你竟為這婦人責備我嗎。
Then was Abner very wroth for the words of Ishbosheth, and said, Am I a dog's head, which against Judah do shew kindness this day unto the house of Saul thy father, to his brethren, and to his friends, and have not delivered thee into the hand of David, that thou chargest me to day with a fault concerning this woman?

3:9    *
So do God to Abner, and more also, except, as the LORD hath sworn to David, even so I do to him;

3:10    我若不照著耶和華起誓應許大衛的話行，廢去掃羅的位，建立大衛的位，使他治理以色列和猶大，從但直到別是巴，願神重重地降罰與我。
To translate the kingdom from the house of Saul, and to set up the throne of David over Israel and over Judah, from Dan even to Beersheba.

3:11    伊施波設懼怕押尼珥，不敢回答一句。
And he could not answer Abner a word again, because he feared him.

3:12    押尼珥打發人去見大衛，替他說，這國歸誰呢。又說，你與我立約，我必幫助你，使以色列人都歸服你。
And Abner sent messengers to David on his behalf, saying, Whose is the land? saying also, Make thy league with me, and, behold, my hand shall be with thee, to bring about all Israel unto thee.

3:13    大衛說，好。我與你立約。但有一件，你來見我面的時候，若不將掃羅的女兒米甲帶來，必不得見我的面。
And he said, Well; I will make a league with thee: but one thing I require of thee, that is, Thou shalt not see my face, except thou first bring Michal Saul's daughter, when thou comest to see my face.

3:14    大衛就打發人去見掃羅的兒子伊施波設，說，你要將我的妻米甲歸還我。她是我從前用一百非利士人的陽皮所聘定的。
And David sent messengers to Ishbosheth Saul's son, saying, Deliver me my wife Michal, which I espoused to me for an hundred foreskins of the Philistines.

3:15    伊施波設就打發人去，將米甲從拉億的兒子，她丈夫帕鐵那裡接回來。
And Ishbosheth sent, and took her from her husband, even from Phaltiel the son of Laish.

3:16    米甲的丈夫跟著她，一面走一面哭，直跟到巴戶琳。押尼珥說，你回去吧。帕鐵就回去了。
And her husband went with her along weeping behind her to Bahurim. Then said Abner unto him, Go, return. And he returned.

3:17    押尼珥對以色列長老說，從前你們願意大衛作王治理你們，
And Abner had communication with the elders of Israel, saying, Ye sought for David in times past to be king over you:

3:18    現在你們可以照心願而行。因為耶和華曾論到大衛說，我必藉我僕人大衛的手，救我民以色列脫離非利士人和眾仇敵的手。
Now then do it: for the LORD hath spoken of David, saying, By the hand of my servant David I will save my people Israel out of the hand of the Philistines, and out of the hand of all their enemies.

3:19    押尼珥也用這話說給便雅憫人聽，又到希伯侖，將以色列人和便雅憫全家一切所喜悅的事說給大衛聽。
And Abner also spake in the ears of Benjamin: and Abner went also to speak in the ears of David in Hebron all that seemed good to Israel, and that seemed good to the whole house of Benjamin.

3:20    押尼珥帶著二十個人來到希伯侖見大衛，大衛就為押尼珥和他帶來的人設擺筵席。
So Abner came to David to Hebron, and twenty men with him. And David made Abner and the men that were with him a feast.

3:21    押尼珥對大衛說，我要起身去招聚以色列眾人來見我主我王，與你立約，你就可以照著心願作王。於是大衛送押尼珥去，押尼珥就平平安安地去了。
And Abner said unto David, I will arise and go, and will gather all Israel unto my lord the king, that they may make a league with thee, and that thou mayest reign over all that thine heart desireth. And David sent Abner away; and he went in peace.

3:22    約押和大衛的僕人攻擊敵軍，帶回許多的掠物。那時押尼珥不在希伯侖大衛那裡，因大衛已經送他去，他也平平安安地去了。
And, behold, the servants of David and Joab came from pursuing a troop, and brought in a great spoil with them: but Abner was not with David in Hebron; for he had sent him away, and he was gone in peace.

3:23    約押和跟隨他的全軍到了，就有人告訴約押說，尼珥的兒子押尼珥來見王，王送他去，他也平平安安地去了。
When Joab and all the host that was with him were come, they told Joab, saying, Abner the son of Ner came to the king, and he hath sent him away, and he is gone in peace.

3:24    約押去見王說，你這是作什麼呢。押尼珥來見你，你為何送他去，他就蹤影不見了呢。
Then Joab came to the king, and said, What hast thou done? behold, Abner came unto thee; why is it that thou hast sent him away, and he is quite gone?

3:25    你當曉得，尼珥的兒子押尼珥來是要誆哄你，要知道你的出入和你一切所行的事。
Thou knowest Abner the son of Ner, that he came to deceive thee, and to know thy going out and thy coming in, and to know all that thou doest.

3:26    約押從大衛那裡出來，就打發人去追趕押尼珥，在西拉井追上他，將他帶回來，大衛卻不知道。
And when Joab was come out from David, he sent messengers after Abner, which brought him again from the well of Sirah: but David knew it not.

3:27    押尼珥回到希伯侖，約押領他到城門的甕洞，假作要與他說機密話，就在那裡刺透他的肚腹，他便死了。這是報殺他兄弟亞撒黑的仇。
And when Abner was returned to Hebron, Joab took him aside in the gate to speak with him quietly, and smote him there under the fifth rib, that he died, for the blood of Asahel his brother.

3:28    大衛聽見了，就說，流尼珥的兒子押尼珥的血，這罪在耶和華面前必永不歸我和我的國。
And afterward when David heard it, he said, I and my kingdom are guiltless before the LORD for ever from the blood of Abner the son of Ner:

3:29    願流他血的罪歸到約押頭上和他父的全家。又願約押家不斷有患漏症的，長大麻瘋的，架拐而行的，被刀殺死的，缺乏飲食的。
Let it rest on the head of Joab, and on all his father's house; and let there not fail from the house of Joab one that hath an issue, or that is a leper, or that leaneth on a staff, or that falleth on the sword, or that lacketh bread.

3:30    約押和他兄弟亞比篩殺了押尼珥，是因押尼珥在基遍爭戰的時候殺了他們的兄弟亞撒黑。
So Joab and Abishai his brother slew Abner, because he had slain their brother Asahel at Gibeon in the battle.

3:31    大衛吩咐約押和跟隨他的眾人說，你們當撕裂衣服，腰束麻布，在押尼珥棺前哀哭。大衛王也跟在棺後。
And David said to Joab, and to all the people that were with him, Rend your clothes, and gird you with sackcloth, and mourn before Abner. And king David himself followed the bier.

3:32    他們將押尼珥葬在希伯侖。王在押尼珥的墓旁放聲而哭，眾民也都哭了。
And they buried Abner in Hebron: and the king lifted up his voice, and wept at the grave of Abner; and all the people wept.

3:33    王為押尼珥舉哀，說，押尼珥何竟像愚頑人死呢。
And the king lamented over Abner, and said, Died Abner as a fool dieth?

3:34    你手未曾捆綁，腳未曾鎖住。你死，如人死在罪孽之輩手下一樣。於是眾民又為押尼珥哀哭。
Thy hands were not bound, nor thy feet put into fetters: as a man falleth before wicked men, so fellest thou. And all the people wept again over him.

3:35    日頭未落的時候，眾民來勸大衛吃飯，但大衛起誓說，我若在日頭未落以前吃飯，或吃別物，願神重重地降罰與我。
And when all the people came to cause David to eat meat while it was yet day, David sware, saying, So do God to me, and more also, if I taste bread, or ought else, till the sun be down.

3:36    眾民知道了就都喜悅。凡王所行的，眾民無不喜悅。
And all the people took notice of it, and it pleased them: as whatsoever the king did pleased all the people.

3:37    那日，以色列眾民才知道殺尼珥的兒子押尼珥並非出於王意。
For all the people and all Israel understood that day that it was not of the king to slay Abner the son of Ner.

3:38    王對臣僕說，你們豈不知今日以色列人中死了一個作元帥的大丈夫嗎。
And the king said unto his servants, Know ye not that there is a prince and a great man fallen this day in Israel?

3:39    我雖然受膏為王，今日還是軟弱。這洗魯雅的兩個兒子比我剛強。願耶和華照著惡人所行的惡報應他。
And I am this day weak, though anointed king; and these men the sons of Zeruiah be too hard for me: the LORD shall reward the doer of evil according to his wickedness.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


4:1    掃羅的兒子伊施波設聽見押尼珥死在希伯侖，手就發軟。以色列眾人也都驚惶。
And when Saul's son heard that Abner was dead in Hebron, his hands were feeble, and all the Israelites were troubled.

4:2    掃羅的兒子伊施波設有兩個軍長，一名巴拿，一名利甲，是便雅憫支派，比錄人臨門的兒子。比錄也屬便雅憫。
And Saul's son had two men that were captains of bands: the name of the one was Baanah, and the name of the other Rechab, the sons of Rimmon a Beerothite, of the children of Benjamin: (for Beeroth also was reckoned to Benjamin.

4:3    比錄人早先逃到基他音，在那裡寄居，直到今日。
And the Beerothites fled to Gittaim, and were sojourners there until this day.)

4:4    掃羅的兒子約拿單有一個兒子名叫米非波設，是瘸腿的。掃羅和約拿單死亡的訊息從耶斯列傳到的時候，他才五歲。他乳母抱著他逃跑。因為跑得太急，孩子掉在地上，腿就瘸了。
And Jonathan, Saul's son, had a son that was lame of his feet. He was five years old when the tidings came of Saul and Jonathan out of Jezreel, and his nurse took him up, and fled: and it came to pass, as she made haste to flee, that he fell, and became lame. And his name was Mephibosheth.

4:5    一日，比錄人臨門的兩個兒子利甲和巴拿出去，約在午熱的時候到了伊施波設的家。伊施波設正睡午覺。
And the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, Rechab and Baanah, went, and came about the heat of the day to the house of Ishbosheth, who lay on a bed at noon.

4:6    他們進了房子，假作要取麥子，就刺透伊施波設的肚腹，逃跑了。
And they came thither into the midst of the house, as though they would have fetched wheat; and they smote him under the fifth rib: and Rechab and Baanah his brother escaped.

4:7    他們進房子的時候，伊施波設正在臥房裡躺在床上，他們將他殺死，割了他的首級，拿著首級在亞拉巴走了一夜，
For when they came into the house, he lay on his bed in his bedchamber, and they smote him, and slew him, and beheaded him, and took his head, and gat them away through the plain all night.

4:8    將伊施波設的首級拿到希伯侖見大衛王，說，王的仇敵掃羅曾尋索王的性命。看哪，這是他兒子伊施波設的首級。耶和華今日為我主我王在掃羅和他後裔的身上報了仇。
And they brought the head of Ishbosheth unto David to Hebron, and said to the king, Behold the head of Ishbosheth the son of Saul thine enemy, which sought thy life; and the LORD hath avenged my lord the king this day of Saul, and of his seed.

4:9    大衛對比錄人臨門的兒子利甲和他兄弟巴拿說，我指著救我性命脫離一切苦難，永生的耶和華起誓，
And David answered Rechab and Baanah his brother, the sons of Rimmon the Beerothite, and said unto them, As the LORD liveth, who hath redeemed my soul out of all adversity,

4:10    從前有人報告我說，掃羅死了，他自以為報好訊息。我就拿住他，將他殺在洗革拉，這就作了他報訊息的賞賜。
When one told me, saying, Behold, Saul is dead, thinking to have brought good tidings, I took hold of him, and slew him in Ziklag, who thought that I would have given him a reward for his tidings:

4:11    何況惡人將義人殺在他的床上，我豈不向你們討流他血的罪，從世上除滅你們呢。
How much more, when wicked men have slain a righteous person in his own house upon his bed? shall I not therefore now require his blood of your hand, and take you away from the earth?

4:12    於是大衛吩咐少年人將他們殺了，砍斷他們的手腳，掛在希伯侖的池旁，卻將伊施波設的首級葬在希伯侖押尼珥的墳墓裡。
And David commanded his young men, and they slew them, and cut off their hands and their feet, and hanged them up over the pool in Hebron. But they took the head of Ishbosheth, and buried it in the sepulchre of Abner in Hebron.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


5:1    以色列眾支派來到希伯侖見大衛，說，我們原是你的骨肉。
Then came all the tribes of Israel to David unto Hebron, and spake, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

5:2    從前掃羅作我們王的時候，率領以色列人出入的是你。耶和華也曾應許你說，你必牧養我的民以色列，作以色列的君。
Also in time past, when Saul was king over us, thou wast he that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD said to thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be a captain over Israel.

5:3    於是以色列的長老都來到希伯侖見大衛王，大衛在希伯侖耶和華面前與他們立約，他們就膏大衛作以色列的王。
So all the elders of Israel came to the king to Hebron; and king David made a league with them in Hebron before the LORD: and they anointed David king over Israel.



5:4    大衛登基的時候年三十歲，在位四十年。
David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years.

5:5    在希伯侖作猶大王七年零六個月，在耶路撒冷作以色列和猶大王三十三年。
In Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years over all Israel and Judah.

5:6    大衛和跟隨他的人到了耶路撒冷，要攻打住那地方的耶布斯人。耶布斯人對大衛說，你若不趕出瞎子，瘸子，必不能進這地方。心裡想大衛決不能進去。
And the king and his men went to Jerusalem unto the Jebusites, the inhabitants of the land: which spake unto David, saying, Except thou take away the blind and the lame, thou shalt not come in hither: thinking, David cannot come in hither.

5:7    然而大衛攻取錫安的保障，就是大衛的城。
Nevertheless David took the strong hold of Zion: the same is the city of David.

5:8    當日，大衛說，誰攻打耶布斯人，當上水溝攻打我心裡所恨惡的瘸子，瞎子。從此有俗語說，在那裡有瞎子，瘸子，他不能進屋去。
And David said on that day, Whosoever getteth up to the gutter, and smiteth the Jebusites, and the lame and the blind, that are hated of David's soul, he shall be chief and captain. Wherefore they said, The blind and the lame shall not come into the house.

5:9    大衛住在保障裡，給保障起名叫大衛城。大衛又從米羅以裡，周圍築牆。
So David dwelt in the fort, and called it the city of David. And David built round about from Millo and inward.

5:10    大衛日見強盛，因為耶和華萬軍之神與他同在。
And David went on, and grew great, and the LORD God of hosts was with him.

5:11    推羅王希蘭將香柏木運到大衛那裡，又差遣使者和木匠，石匠給大衛建造宮殿。
And Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and cedar trees, and carpenters, and masons: and they built David an house.

5:12    大衛就知道耶和華堅立他作以色列王，又為自己的民以色列使他的國興旺。
And David perceived that the LORD had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for his people Israel's sake.

5:13    大衛離開希伯侖之後，在耶路撒冷又立后妃，又生兒女。
And David took him more concubines and wives out of Jerusalem, after he was come from Hebron: and there were yet sons and daughters born to David.

5:14    在耶路撒冷所生的兒子是沙母亞，朔吧，拿單，所羅門，
And these be the names of those that were born unto him in Jerusalem; Shammuah, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon,

5:15    益轄，以利書亞，尼斐，雅非亞，
Ibhar also, and Elishua, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

5:16    以利沙瑪，以利雅大，以利法列。
And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphalet.

5:17    非利士人聽見人膏大衛作以色列王，非利士眾人就上來尋索大衛。大衛聽見，就下到保障。
But when the Philistines heard that they had anointed David king over Israel, all the Philistines came up to seek David; and David heard of it, and went down to the hold.

5:18    非利士人來了，佈散在利乏音谷。
The Philistines also came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.

5:19    大衛求問耶和華說，我可以上去攻打非利士人嗎。你將他們交在我手裡嗎。耶和華說，你可以上去，我必將非利士人交在你手裡。
And David enquired of the LORD, saying, Shall I go up to the Philistines? wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD said unto David, Go up: for I will doubtless deliver the Philistines into thine hand.

5:20    大衛來到巴力毗拉心，在那裡擊殺非利士人，說，耶和華在我面前衝破敵人，如同水衝去一般。因此稱那地方為巴力毗拉心。
And David came to Baalperazim, and David smote them there, and said, The LORD hath broken forth upon mine enemies before me, as the breach of waters. Therefore he called the name of that place Baalperazim.

5:21    非利士人將偶像撇在那裡，大衛和跟隨他的人拿去了。
And there they left their images, and David and his men burned them.

5:22    非利士人又上來，佈散在利乏音谷。
And the Philistines came up yet again, and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.

5:23    大衛求問耶和華。耶和華說，不要一直地上去，要轉到他們後頭，從桑林對面攻打他們。
And when David enquired of the LORD, he said, Thou shalt not go up; but fetch a compass behind them, and come upon them over against the mulberry trees.

5:24    你聽見桑樹梢上有腳步的聲音，就要急速前去，因為那時耶和華已經在你前頭去攻打非利士人的軍隊。
And let it be, when thou hearest the sound of a going in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt bestir thyself: for then shall the LORD go out before thee, to smite the host of the Philistines.

5:25    大衛就遵著耶和華所吩咐的去行，攻打非利士人，從迦巴直到基色。
And David did so, as the LORD had commanded him; and smote the Philistines from Geba until thou come to Gazer.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


6:1    大衛又聚集以色列中所有挑選的人三萬。
Again, David gathered together all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand.

6:2    大衛起身，率領跟隨他的眾人前往，要從巴拉猶大將神的約櫃運來。這約櫃就是坐在二基路伯上萬軍之耶和華留名的約櫃。
And David arose, and went with all the people that were with him from Baale of Judah, to bring up from thence the ark of God, whose name is called by the name of the LORD of hosts that dwelleth between the cherubims.

6:3    他們將神的約櫃從岡上亞比拿達的家裡抬出來，放在新車上。亞比拿達的兩個兒子烏撒和亞希約趕這新車。
And they set the ark of God upon a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab that was in Gibeah: and Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, drave the new cart.

6:4    他們將神的約櫃從岡上亞比拿達家裡抬出來的時候，亞希約在櫃前行走。
And they brought it out of the house of Abinadab which was at Gibeah, accompanying the ark of God: and Ahio went before the ark.

6:5    大衛和以色列的全家在耶和華面前，用松木製造的各樣樂器和琴，瑟，鼓，鈸，鑼，作樂跳舞。
And David and all the house of Israel played before the LORD on all manner of instruments made of fir wood, even on harps, and on psalteries, and on timbrels, and on cornets, and on cymbals.

6:6    到了拿艮的禾場，因為牛失前蹄（或作驚跳），烏撒就伸手扶住神的約櫃。
And when they came to Nachon's threshingfloor, Uzzah put forth his hand to the ark of God, and took hold of it; for the oxen shook it.

6:7    神耶和華向烏撒發怒，因這錯誤擊殺他，他就死在神的約櫃旁。
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzzah; and God smote him there for his error; and there he died by the ark of God.

6:8    大衛因耶和華擊殺（原文作闖殺）烏撒，心裡愁煩，就稱那地方為毗列斯烏撒，直到今日。
And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach upon Uzzah: and he called the name of the place Perezuzzah to this day.

6:9    那日，大衛懼怕耶和華，說，耶和華的約櫃怎可運到我這裡來。
And David was afraid of the LORD that day, and said, How shall the ark of the LORD come to me?

6:10    於是大衛不肯將耶和華的約櫃運進大衛的城，卻運到迦特人俄別以東的家中。
So David would not remove the ark of the LORD unto him into the city of David: but David carried it aside into the house of Obededom the Gittite.

6:11    耶和華的約櫃在迦特人俄別以東家中三個月。耶和華賜福給俄別以東和他的全家。
And the ark of the LORD continued in the house of Obededom the Gittite three months: and the LORD blessed Obededom, and all his household.

6:12    有人告訴大衛王說，耶和華因為約櫃賜福給俄別以東的家和一切屬他的。大衛就去，歡歡喜喜地將神的約櫃從俄別以東家中抬到大衛的城裡。
And it was told king David, saying, The LORD hath blessed the house of Obededom, and all that pertaineth unto him, because of the ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obededom into the city of David with gladness.

6:13    抬耶和華約櫃的人走了六步，大衛就獻牛與肥羊為祭。
And it was so, that when they that bare the ark of the LORD had gone six paces, he sacrificed oxen and fatlings.

6:14    大衛穿著細麻布的以弗得，在耶和華面前極力跳舞。
And David danced before the LORD with all his might; and David was girded with a linen ephod.

6:15    這樣，大衛和以色列的全家歡呼吹角，將耶和華的約櫃抬上來。
So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the LORD with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet.

6:16    耶和華的約櫃進了大衛城的時候，掃羅的女兒米甲從窗戶裡觀看，見大衛王在耶和華面前踴躍跳舞，心裡就輕視他。
And as the ark of the LORD came into the city of David, Michal Saul's daughter looked through a window, and saw king David leaping and dancing before the LORD; and she despised him in her heart.

6:17    眾人將耶和華的約櫃請進去，安放在所預備的地方，就是在大衛所搭的帳幕裡。大衛在耶和華面前獻燔祭和平安祭。
And they brought in the ark of the LORD, and set it in his place, in the midst of the tabernacle that David had pitched for it: and David offered burnt offerings and peace offerings before the LORD.

6:18    大衛獻完了燔祭和平安祭，就奉萬軍之耶和華的名給民祝福，
And as soon as David had made an end of offering burnt offerings and peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD of hosts.

6:19    並且分給以色列眾人，無論男女，每人一個餅，一塊肉，一個葡萄餅。眾人就各回各家去了。
And he dealt among all the people, even among the whole multitude of Israel, as well to the women as men, to every one a cake of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine. So all the people departed every one to his house.

6:20    大衛回家要給眷屬祝福。掃羅的女兒米甲出來迎接他，說，以色列王今日在臣僕的婢女眼前露體，如同一個輕賤人無恥露體一樣，有好大的榮耀阿。
Then David returned to bless his household. And Michal the daughter of Saul came out to meet David, and said, How glorious was the king of Israel to day, who uncovered himself to day in the eyes of the handmaids of his servants, as one of the vain fellows shamelessly uncovereth himself!

6:21    大衛對米甲說，這是在耶和華面前。耶和華已揀選我，廢了你父和你父的全家，立我作耶和華民以色列的君，所以我必在耶和華面前跳舞。
And David said unto Michal, It was before the LORD, which chose me before thy father, and before all his house, to appoint me ruler over the people of the LORD, over Israel: therefore will I play before the LORD.

6:22    我也必更加卑微，自己看為輕賤。你所說的那些婢女，她們倒要尊敬我。
And I will yet be more vile than thus, and will be base in mine own sight: and of the maidservants which thou hast spoken of, of them shall I be had in honour.

6:23    掃羅的女兒米甲，直到死日，沒有生養兒女。
Therefore Michal the daughter of Saul had no child unto the day of her death.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


7:1    王住在自己宮中，耶和華使他安靖，不被四圍的仇敵擾亂。
And it came to pass, when the king sat in his house, and the LORD had given him rest round about from all his enemies;

7:2    那時，王對先知拿單說，看哪，我住在香柏木的宮中，神的約櫃反在幔子裡。
That the king said unto Nathan the prophet, See now, I dwell in an house of cedar, but the ark of God dwelleth within curtains.

7:3    拿單對王說，你可以照你的心意而行，因為耶和華與你同在。
And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in thine heart; for the LORD is with thee.

7:4    當夜，耶和華的話臨到拿單說，
And it came to pass that night, that the word of the LORD came unto Nathan, saying,

7:5    你去告訴我僕人大衛，說耶和華如此說，你豈可建造殿宇給我居住呢。
Go and tell my servant David, Thus saith the LORD, Shalt thou build me an house for me to dwell in?

7:6    自從我領以色列人出埃及直到今日，我未曾住過殿宇，常在會幕和帳幕中行走。
Whereas I have not dwelt in any house since the time that I brought up the children of Israel out of Egypt, even to this day, but have walked in a tent and in a tabernacle.

7:7    凡我同以色列人所走的地方，我何曾向以色列一支派的士師，就是我吩咐牧養我民以色列的說，你們為何不給我建造香柏木的殿宇呢。
In all the places wherein I have walked with all the children of Israel spake I a word with any of the tribes of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people Israel, saying, Why build ye not me an house of cedar?

7:8    現在，你要告訴我僕人大衛，說萬軍之耶和華如此說，我從羊圈中將你召來，叫你不再跟從羊群，立你作我民以色列的君。
Now therefore so shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, from following the sheep, to be ruler over my people, over Israel:

7:9    你無論往哪裡去，我常與你同在，剪除你的一切仇敵。我必使你得大名，好像世上大大有名的人一樣。
And I was with thee whithersoever thou wentest, and have cut off all thine enemies out of thy sight, and have made thee a great name, like unto the name of the great men that are in the earth.

7:10    我必為我民以色列選定一個地方，栽培他們，使他們住自己的地方，不再遷移。凶惡之子也不像從前擾害他們，
Moreover I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, that they may dwell in a place of their own, and move no more; neither shall the children of wickedness afflict them any more, as beforetime,

7:11    並不像我命士師治理我民以色列的時候一樣。我必使你安靖，不被一切仇敵擾亂，並且我耶和華應許你，必為你建立家室。
And as since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, and have caused thee to rest from all thine enemies. Also the LORD telleth thee that he will make thee an house.

7:12    你壽數滿足，與你列祖同睡的時候，我必使你的後裔接續你的位。我也必堅定他的國。
And when thy days be fulfilled, and thou shalt sleep with thy fathers, I will set up thy seed after thee, which shall proceed out of thy bowels, and I will establish his kingdom.

7:13    他必為我的名建造殿宇。我必堅定他的國位，直到永遠。
He shall build an house for my name, and I will stablish the throne of his kingdom for ever.

7:14    我要作他的父，他要作我的子。他若犯了罪，我必用人的杖責打他，用人的鞭責罰他。
I will be his father, and he shall be my son. If he commit iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men:

7:15    但我的慈愛仍不離開他，像離開在你面前所廢棄的掃羅一樣。
But my mercy shall not depart away from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before thee.

7:16    你的家和你的國必在我（原文作你）面前永遠堅立。你的國位也必堅定，直到永遠。
And thine house and thy kingdom shall be established for ever before thee: thy throne shall be established for ever.

7:17    拿單就按這一切話，照這默示，告訴大衛。
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.

7:18    於是大衛王進去，坐在耶和華面前，說，主耶和華阿，我是誰。我的家算什麼。你竟使我到這地步呢。
Then went king David in, and sat before the LORD, and he said, Who am I, O Lord GOD? and what is my house, that thou hast brought me hitherto?

7:19    主耶和華阿，這在你眼中還看為小，又應許你僕人的家至於久遠。主耶和華阿，這豈是人所常遇的事嗎。
And this was yet a small thing in thy sight, O Lord GOD; but thou hast spoken also of thy servant's house for a great while to come. And is this the manner of man, O Lord GOD?

7:20    主耶和華阿，我還有何言可以對你說呢。因為你知道你的僕人。
And what can David say more unto thee? for thou, Lord GOD, knowest thy servant.

7:21    你行這大事使僕人知道，是因你所應許的話，也是照你的心意。
For thy word's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou done all these great things, to make thy servant know them.

7:22    主耶和華阿，你本為大，照我們耳中聽見，沒有可比你的。除你以外再無神。
Wherefore thou art great, O LORD God: for there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

7:23    世上有何民能比你的民以色列呢。你從埃及救贖他們作自己的子民，又在你贖出來的民面前行大而可畏的事，驅逐列邦人和他們的神，顯出你的大名。
And what one nation in the earth is like thy people, even like Israel, whom God went to redeem for a people to himself, and to make him a name, and to do for you great things and terrible, for thy land, before thy people, which thou redeemedst to thee from Egypt, from the nations and their gods?

7:24    你曾堅立你的民以色列作你的子民，直到永遠。你耶和華也作了他們的神。
For thou hast confirmed to thyself thy people Israel to be a people unto thee for ever: and thou, LORD, art become their God.

7:25    耶和華神阿，你所應許僕人和僕人家的話，求你堅定，直到永遠。照你所說的而行。
And now, O LORD God, the word that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant, and concerning his house, establish it for ever, and do as thou hast said.

7:26    願人永遠尊你的名為大，說，萬軍之耶和華是治理以色列的神。這樣，你僕人大衛的家必在你面前堅立。
And let thy name be magnified for ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God over Israel: and let the house of thy servant David be established before thee.

7:27    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神阿，因你啟示你的僕人說，我必為你建立家室，所以僕人大膽向你如此祈禱。
For thou, O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, hast revealed to thy servant, saying, I will build thee an house: therefore hath thy servant found in his heart to pray this prayer unto thee.

7:28    主耶和華阿，惟有你是神。你的話是真實的。你也應許將這福氣賜給僕人。
And now, O Lord GOD, thou art that God, and thy words be true, and thou hast promised this goodness unto thy servant:

7:29    現在求你賜福與僕人的家，可以永存在你面前。主耶和華阿，這是你所應許的。願你永遠賜福與僕人的家。
Therefore now let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may continue for ever before thee: for thou, O Lord GOD, hast spoken it: and with thy blessing let the house of thy servant be blessed for ever.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


8:1    此後，大衛攻打非利士人，把他們治服，從他們手下奪取了京城的權柄（原文作母城的嚼環）。
And after this it came to pass that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them: and David took Methegammah out of the hand of the Philistines.

8:2    又攻打摩押人，使他們躺臥在地上，用繩量一量，量二繩的殺了，量一繩的存留。摩押人就歸服大衛，給他進貢。
And he smote Moab, and measured them with a line, casting them down to the ground; even with two lines measured he to put to death, and with one full line to keep alive. And so the Moabites became David's servants, and brought gifts.

8:3    瑣巴王利合的兒子哈大底謝往大河去，要奪回他的國權。大衛就攻打他，
David smote also Hadadezer, the son of Rehob, king of Zobah, as he went to recover his border at the river Euphrates.

8:4    擒拿了他的馬兵一千七百，步兵二萬，將拉戰車的馬砍斷蹄筋，但留下一百輛車的馬。
And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven hundred horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: and David houghed all the chariot horses, but reserved of them for an hundred chariots.

8:5    大馬士革的亞蘭人來幫助瑣巴王哈大底謝，大衛就殺了亞蘭人二萬二千。
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to succour Hadadezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.

8:6    於是大衛在大馬士革的亞蘭地設立防營，亞蘭人就歸服他，給他進貢。大衛無論往哪裡去，耶和華都使他得勝。
Then David put garrisons in Syria of Damascus: and the Syrians became servants to David, and brought gifts. And the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

8:7    他奪了哈大底謝臣僕所拿的金盾牌，帶到耶路撒冷。
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadadezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

8:8    大衛王又從屬哈大底謝的比他和比羅他城中奪取了許多的銅。
And from Betah, and from Berothai, cities of Hadadezer, king David took exceeding much brass.

8:9    哈馬王陀以聽見大衛殺敗哈大底謝的全軍，
When Toi king of Hamath heard that David had smitten all the host of Hadadezer,

8:10    就打發他兒子約蘭去見大衛王，問他的安，為他祝福，因為他殺敗了哈大底謝，原來陀以與哈大底謝常常爭戰。約蘭帶了金銀銅的器皿來，
Then Toi sent Joram his son unto king David, to salute him, and to bless him, because he had fought against Hadadezer, and smitten him: for Hadadezer had wars with Toi. And Joram brought with him vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and vessels of brass:

8:11    大衛王將這些器皿和他治服各國所得來的金銀都分別為聖，獻給耶和華，
Which also king David did dedicate unto the LORD, with the silver and gold that he had dedicated of all nations which he subdued;

8:12    就是從亞蘭，摩押，亞捫，非利士，亞瑪力人所得來的，以及從瑣巴王利合的兒子哈大底謝所掠之物。
Of Syria, and of Moab, and of the children of Ammon, and of the Philistines, and of Amalek, and of the spoil of Hadadezer, son of Rehob, king of Zobah.

8:13    大衛在鹽谷擊殺了亞蘭（或作以東，見詩篇六十篇詩題）一萬八千人回來，就得了大名。
And David gat him a name when he returned from smiting of the Syrians in the valley of salt, being eighteen thousand men.

8:14    又在以東全地設立防營，以東人就都歸服大衛。大衛無論往哪裡去，耶和華都使他得勝。
And he put garrisons in Edom; throughout all Edom put he garrisons, and all they of Edom became David's servants. And the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

8:15    大衛作以色列眾人的王，又向眾民秉公行義。
And David reigned over all Israel; and David executed judgment and justice unto all his people.

8:16    洗魯雅的兒子約押作元帥。亞希律的兒子約沙法作史官。
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder;

8:17    亞希突的兒子撒督和亞比亞他的兒子亞希米勒作祭司長。西萊雅作書記。
And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Seraiah was the scribe;

8:18    耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅統轄基利提人和比利提人。大衛的眾子都作領袖。
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over both the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and David's sons were chief rulers.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


9:1    大衛問說，掃羅家還有剩下的人沒有。我要因約拿單的緣故向他施恩。
And David said, Is there yet any that is left of the house of Saul, that I may shew him kindness for Jonathan's sake?

9:2    掃羅家有一個僕人，名叫洗巴，有人叫他來見大衛，王問他說，你是洗巴嗎。回答說，僕人是。
And there was of the house of Saul a servant whose name was Ziba. And when they had called him unto David, the king said unto him, Art thou Ziba? And he said, Thy servant is he.

9:3    王說，掃羅家還有人沒有。我要照神的慈愛恩待他。洗巴對王說，還有約拿單的一個兒子，是瘸腿的。
And the king said, Is there not yet any of the house of Saul, that I may shew the kindness of God unto him? And Ziba said unto the king, Jonathan hath yet a son, which is lame on his feet.

9:4    王說，他在哪裡。洗巴對王說，他在羅底巴，亞米利的兒子瑪吉家裡。
And the king said unto him, Where is he? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he is in the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, in Lodebar.

9:5    於是大衛王打發人去，從羅底巴亞米利的兒子瑪吉家裡召了他來。
Then king David sent, and fetched him out of the house of Machir, the son of Ammiel, from Lodebar.

9:6    掃羅的孫子，約拿單的兒子米非波設來見大衛，伏地叩拜。大衛說，米非波設。米非波設說，僕人在此。
Now when Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan, the son of Saul, was come unto David, he fell on his face, and did reverence. And David said, Mephibosheth. And he answered, Behold thy servant!

9:7    大衛說，你不要懼怕，我必因你父親約拿單的緣故施恩與你，將你祖父掃羅的一切田地都歸還你。你也可以常與我同席吃飯。
And David said unto him, Fear not: for I will surely shew thee kindness for Jonathan thy father's sake, and will restore thee all the land of Saul thy father; and thou shalt eat bread at my table continually.

9:8    米非波設又叩拜，說，僕人算什麼，不過如死狗一般，竟蒙王這樣眷顧。
And he bowed himself, and said, What is thy servant, that thou shouldest look upon such a dead dog as I am?

9:9    王召了掃羅的僕人洗巴來，對他說，我已將屬掃羅和他的一切家產都賜給你主人的兒子了。
Then the king called to Ziba, Saul's servant, and said unto him, I have given unto thy master's son all that pertained to Saul and to all his house.

9:10    你和你的眾子，僕人要為你主人的兒子米非波設耕種田地，把所產的拿來供他食用。他卻要常與我同席吃飯。洗巴有十五個兒子，二十個僕人。
Thou therefore, and thy sons, and thy servants, shall till the land for him, and thou shalt bring in the fruits, that thy master's son may have food to eat: but Mephibosheth thy master's son shall eat bread alway at my table. Now Ziba had fifteen sons and twenty servants.

9:11    洗巴對王說，凡我主我王吩咐僕人的，僕人都必遵行。王又說，米非波設必與我同席吃飯，如王的兒子一樣。
Then said Ziba unto the king, According to all that my lord the king hath commanded his servant, so shall thy servant do. As for Mephibosheth, said the king, he shall eat at my table, as one of the king's sons.

9:12    米非波設有一個小兒子，名叫米迦。凡住在洗巴家裡的人都作了米非波設的僕人。
And Mephibosheth had a young son, whose name was Micha. And all that dwelt in the house of Ziba were servants unto Mephibosheth.

9:13    於是米非波設住在耶路撒冷，常與王同席吃飯。他兩腿都是瘸的。
So Mephibosheth dwelt in Jerusalem: for he did eat continually at the king's table; and was lame on both his feet.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


10:1    此後，亞捫人的王死了，他兒子哈嫩接續他作王。
And it came to pass after this, that the king of the children of Ammon died, and Hanun his son reigned in his stead.

10:2    大衛說，我要照哈嫩的父親拿轄厚待我的恩典厚待哈嫩。於是大衛差遣臣僕，為他喪父安慰他。大衛的臣僕到了亞捫人的境內。
Then said David, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of Nahash, as his father shewed kindness unto me. And David sent to comfort him by the hand of his servants for his father. And David's servants came into the land of the children of Ammon.

10:3    但亞捫人的首領對他們的主哈嫩說，大衛差人來安慰你，你想他是尊敬你父親嗎。他差臣僕來不是詳察窺探，要傾覆這城嗎。
And the princes of the children of Ammon said unto Hanun their lord, Thinkest thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters unto thee? hath not David rather sent his servants unto thee, to search the city, and to spy it out, and to overthrow it?

10:4    哈嫩便將大衛臣僕的鬍鬚剃去一半，又割斷他們下半截的衣服，使他們露出下體，打發他們回去。
Wherefore Hanun took David's servants, and shaved off the one half of their beards, and cut off their garments in the middle, even to their buttocks, and sent them away.

10:5    有人告訴大衛，他就差人去迎接他們，因為他們甚覺羞恥，告訴他們說，可以住在耶利哥，等到鬍鬚長起再回來。
When they told it unto David, he sent to meet them, because the men were greatly ashamed: and the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return.

10:6    亞捫人知道大衛憎惡他們，就打發人去，招募伯利合的亞蘭人和瑣巴的亞蘭人，步兵二萬，與瑪迦王的人一千，陀伯人一萬二千。
And when the children of Ammon saw that they stank before David, the children of Ammon sent and hired the Syrians of Bethrehob, and the Syrians of Zoba, twenty thousand footmen, and of king Maacah a thousand men, and of Ishtob twelve thousand men.

10:7    大衛聽見了，就差派約押統帶勇猛的全軍出去。
And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the mighty men.

10:8    亞捫人出來，在城門前擺陣。瑣巴與利合的亞蘭人，陀伯人，並瑪迦人，另在郊野擺陣。
And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array at the entering in of the gate: and the Syrians of Zoba, and of Rehob, and Ishtob, and Maacah, were by themselves in the field.

10:9    約押看見敵人在他前後擺陣，就從以色列軍中挑選精兵，使他們對著亞蘭人擺陣。
When Joab saw that the front of the battle was against him before and behind, he chose of all the choice men of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians:

10:10    其餘的兵交與他兄弟亞比篩，對著亞捫人擺陣。
And the rest of the people he delivered into the hand of Abishai his brother, that he might put them in array against the children of Ammon.

10:11    約押對亞比篩說，亞蘭人若強過我，你就來幫助我。亞捫人若強過你，我就去幫助你。
And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I will come and help thee.

10:12    我們都當剛強，為本國的民和神的城邑作大丈夫。願耶和華憑他的意旨而行。
Be of good courage, and let us play the men for our people, and for the cities of our God: and the LORD do that which seemeth him good.

10:13    於是，約押和跟隨他的人前進攻打亞蘭人。亞蘭人在約押面前逃跑。
And Joab drew nigh, and the people that were with him, unto the battle against the Syrians: and they fled before him.

10:14    亞捫人見亞蘭人逃跑，他們也在亞比篩面前逃跑進城。約押就離開亞捫人那裡，回耶路撒冷去了。
And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, then fled they also before Abishai, and entered into the city. So Joab returned from the children of Ammon, and came to Jerusalem.

10:15    亞蘭人見自己被以色列人打敗，就又聚集。
And when the Syrians saw that they were smitten before Israel, they gathered themselves together.

10:16    哈大底謝差遣人，將大河那邊的亞蘭人調來。他們到了希蘭，哈大底謝的將軍朔法率領他們。
And Hadarezer sent, and brought out the Syrians that were beyond the river: and they came to Helam; and Shobach the captain of the host of Hadarezer went before them.

10:17    有人告訴大衛，他就聚集以色列眾人，過約旦河，來到希蘭。亞蘭人迎著大衛擺陣，與他打仗。
And when it was told David, he gathered all Israel together, and passed over Jordan, and came to Helam. And the Syrians set themselves in array against David, and fought with him.

10:18    亞蘭人在以色列人面前逃跑。大衛殺了亞蘭七百輛戰車的人，四萬馬兵，又殺了亞蘭的將軍朔法。
And the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew the men of seven hundred chariots of the Syrians, and forty thousand horsemen, and smote Shobach the captain of their host, who died there.

10:19    屬哈大底謝的諸王見自己被以色列人打敗，就與以色列人和好，歸服他們。於是亞蘭人不敢再幫助亞捫人了。
And when all the kings that were servants to Hadarezer saw that they were smitten before Israel, they made peace with Israel, and served them. So the Syrians feared to help the children of Ammon any more.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


11:1    過了一年，到列王出戰的時候，大衛又差派約押，率領臣僕和以色列眾人出戰。他們就打敗亞捫人，圍攻拉巴。大衛仍住在耶路撒冷。
And it came to pass, after the year was expired, at the time when kings go forth to battle, that David sent Joab, and his servants with him, and all Israel; and they destroyed the children of Ammon, and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried still at Jerusalem.

11:2    一日，太陽平西，大衛從床上起來，在王宮的平頂上游行，看見一個婦人沭浴，容貌甚美，
And it came to pass in an eveningtide, that David arose from off his bed, and walked upon the roof of the king's house: and from the roof he saw a woman washing herself; and the woman was very beautiful to look upon.

11:3    大衛就差人打聽那婦人是誰。有人說，她是以連的女兒，赫人烏利亞的妻拔示巴。
And David sent and enquired after the woman. And one said, Is not this Bathsheba, the daughter of Eliam, the wife of Uriah the Hittite?

11:4    大衛差人去，將婦人接來。那時她的月經才得潔淨。她來了，大衛與她同房，她就回家去了。
And David sent messengers, and took her; and she came in unto him, and he lay with her; for she was purified from her uncleanness: and she returned unto her house.

11:5    於是她懷了孕，打發人去告訴大衛說，我懷了孕。
And the woman conceived, and sent and told David, and said, I am with child.

11:6    大衛差人到約押那裡，說，你打發赫人烏利亞到我這裡來。約押就打發烏利亞去見大衛。
And David sent to Joab, saying, Send me Uriah the Hittite. And Joab sent Uriah to David.

11:7    烏利亞來了，大衛問約押好，也問兵好，又問爭戰的事怎樣。
And when Uriah was come unto him, David demanded of him how Joab did, and how the people did, and how the war prospered.

11:8    大衛對烏利亞說，你回家去，洗洗腳吧。烏利亞出了王宮，隨後王送他一分食物。
And David said to Uriah, Go down to thy house, and wash thy feet. And Uriah departed out of the king's house, and there followed him a mess of meat from the king.

11:9    烏利亞卻和他主人的僕人一同睡在宮門外，沒有回家去。
But Uriah slept at the door of the king's house with all the servants of his lord, and went not down to his house.

11:10    有人告訴大衛說，烏利亞沒有回家去。大衛就問烏利亞說，你從遠路上來，為什麼不回家去呢。
And when they had told David, saying, Uriah went not down unto his house, David said unto Uriah, Camest thou not from thy journey? why then didst thou not go down unto thine house?

11:11    烏利亞對大衛說，約櫃和以色列與猶大兵都住在棚裡，我主約押和我主（或作王）的僕人都在田野安營，我豈可回家吃喝，與妻子同寢呢。我敢在王面前起誓（原文作我指著王和王的性命起誓）。
And Uriah said unto David, The ark, and Israel, and Judah, abide in tents; and my lord Joab, and the servants of my lord, are encamped in the open fields; shall I then go into mine house, to eat and to drink, and to lie with my wife? as thou livest, and as thy soul liveth, I will not do this thing.

11:12    大衛吩咐烏利亞說，你今日仍住在這裡，明日我打發你去。於是烏利亞那日和次日住在耶路撒冷。
And David said to Uriah, Tarry here to day also, and to morrow I will let thee depart. So Uriah abode in Jerusalem that day, and the morrow.

11:13    大衛召了烏利亞來，叫他在自己面前吃喝，使他喝醉。到了晚上，烏利亞出去與他主的僕人一同住宿，還沒有回到家裡去。
And when David had called him, he did eat and drink before him; and he made him drunk: and at even he went out to lie on his bed with the servants of his lord, but went not down to his house.

11:14    次日早晨，大衛寫信與約押，交烏利亞隨手帶去。
And it came to pass in the morning, that David wrote a letter to Joab, and sent it by the hand of Uriah.

11:15    信內寫著說，要派烏利亞前進，到陣勢極險之處，你們便退後，使他被殺。
And he wrote in the letter, saying, Set ye Uriah in the forefront of the hottest battle, and retire ye from him, that he may be smitten, and die.

11:16    約押圍城的時候，知道敵人那裡有勇士，便將烏利亞派在那裡。
And it came to pass, when Joab observed the city, that he assigned Uriah unto a place where he knew that valiant men were.

11:17    城裡的人出來和約押打仗。大衛的僕人中有幾個被殺的，赫人烏利亞也死了。
And the men of the city went out, and fought with Joab: and there fell some of the people of the servants of David; and Uriah the Hittite died also.

11:18    於是，約押差人去將爭戰的一切事告訴大衛，
Then Joab sent and told David all the things concerning the war;

11:19    又囑咐使者說，你把爭戰的一切事對王說完了，
And charged the messenger, saying, When thou hast made an end of telling the matters of the war unto the king,

11:20    王若發怒，問你說，你們打仗為什麼挨近城牆呢。豈不知敵人必從城上射箭嗎。
And if so be that the king's wrath arise, and he say unto thee, Wherefore approached ye so nigh unto the city when ye did fight? knew ye not that they would shoot from the wall?

11:21    從前打死耶路比設（就是耶路巴力，見士師記九章一節）兒子亞比米勒的是誰呢。豈不是一個婦人從城上拋下一塊上磨石來，打在他身上，他就死在提備斯嗎。你們為什麼挨近城牆呢？你就說，王的僕人，赫人烏利亞也死了。
Who smote Abimelech the son of Jerubbesheth? did not a woman cast a piece of a millstone upon him from the wall, that he died in Thebez? why went ye nigh the wall? then say thou, Thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.

11:22    使者起身，來見大衛，照著約押所吩咐他的話奏告大衛。
So the messenger went, and came and shewed David all that Joab had sent him for.

11:23    使者對大衛說，敵人強過我們，出到郊野與我們打仗，我們追殺他們，直到城門口。
And the messenger said unto David, Surely the men prevailed against us, and came out unto us into the field, and we were upon them even unto the entering of the gate.

11:24    射箭的從城上射王的僕人，射死幾個，赫人烏利亞也死了。
And the shooters shot from off the wall upon thy servants; and some of the king's servants be dead, and thy servant Uriah the Hittite is dead also.

11:25    王向使者說，你告訴約押說，不要因這事愁悶，刀劍或吞滅這人或吞滅那人，沒有一定的。你只管竭力攻城，將城傾覆。可以用這話勉勵約押。
Then David said unto the messenger, Thus shalt thou say unto Joab, Let not this thing displease thee, for the sword devoureth one as well as another: make thy battle more strong against the city, and overthrow it: and encourage thou him.

11:26    烏利亞的妻聽見丈夫烏利亞死了，就為他哀哭。
And when the wife of Uriah heard that Uriah her husband was dead, she mourned for her husband.

11:27    哀哭的日子過了，大衛差人將她接到宮裡，她就作了大衛的妻，給大衛生了一個兒子。但大衛所行的這事，耶和華甚不喜悅。
And when the mourning was past, David sent and fetched her to his house, and she became his wife, and bare him a son. But the thing that David had done displeased the LORD.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


12:1    耶和華差遣拿單去見大衛。拿單到了大衛那裡，對他說，在一座城裡有兩個人，一個是富戶，一個是窮人。
And the LORD sent Nathan unto David. And he came unto him, and said unto him, There were two men in one city; the one rich, and the other poor.

12:2    富戶有許多牛群羊群。
The rich man had exceeding many flocks and herds:

12:3    窮人除了所買來養活的一隻小母羊羔之外，別無所有。羊羔在他家裡和他兒女一同長大，吃他所吃的，喝他所喝的，睡在他懷中，在他看來如同女兒一樣。
But the poor man had nothing, save one little ewe lamb, which he had bought and nourished up: and it grew up together with him, and with his children; it did eat of his own meat, and drank of his own cup, and lay in his bosom, and was unto him as a daughter.

12:4    有一客人來到這富戶家裡。富戶捨不得從自己的牛群羊群中取一隻預備給客人吃，卻取了那窮人的羊羔，預備給客人吃。
And there came a traveller unto the rich man, and he spared to take of his own flock and of his own herd, to dress for the wayfaring man that was come unto him; but took the poor man's lamb, and dressed it for the man that was come to him.

12:5    大衛就甚惱怒那人，對拿單說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，行這事的人該死。
And David's anger was greatly kindled against the man; and he said to Nathan, As the LORD liveth, the man that hath done this thing shall surely die:

12:6    他必償還羊羔四倍。因為他行這事，沒有憐恤的心。
And he shall restore the lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because he had no pity.

12:7    拿單對大衛說，你就是那人。耶和華以色列的神如此說，我膏你作以色列的王，救你脫離掃羅的手。
And Nathan said to David, Thou art the man. Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, I anointed thee king over Israel, and I delivered thee out of the hand of Saul;

12:8    我將你主人的家業賜給你，將你主人的妻交在你懷裡，又將以色列和猶大家賜給你。你若還以為不足，我早就加倍地賜給你。
And I gave thee thy master's house, and thy master's wives into thy bosom, and gave thee the house of Israel and of Judah; and if that had been too little, I would moreover have given unto thee such and such things.

12:9    你為什麼藐視耶和華的命令，行他眼中看為惡的事呢。你借亞捫人的刀殺害赫人烏利亞，又娶了他的妻為妻。
Wherefore hast thou despised the commandment of the LORD, to do evil in his sight? thou hast killed Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and hast taken his wife to be thy wife, and hast slain him with the sword of the children of Ammon.

12:10    你既藐視我，娶了赫人烏利亞的妻為妻，所以刀劍必永不離開陪的家。
Now therefore the sword shall never depart from thine house; because thou hast despised me, and hast taken the wife of Uriah the Hittite to be thy wife.

12:11    耶和華如此說，我必從你家中興起禍患攻擊你。我必在你眼前把你的妃嬪賜給別人，他在日光之下就與她們同寢。
Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will raise up evil against thee out of thine own house, and I will take thy wives before thine eyes, and give them unto thy neighbour, and he shall lie with thy wives in the sight of this sun.

12:12    你在暗中行這事，我卻要在以色列眾人面前，日光之下，報應你。
For thou didst it secretly: but I will do this thing before all Israel, and before the sun.

12:13    大衛對拿單說，我得罪耶和華了。拿單說，耶和華已經除掉你的罪，你必不至於死。
And David said unto Nathan, I have sinned against the LORD. And Nathan said unto David, The LORD also hath put away thy sin; thou shalt not die.

12:14    只是你行這事，叫耶和華的仇敵大得褻瀆的機會，故此，你所得的孩子必定要死。
Howbeit, because by this deed thou hast given great occasion to the enemies of the LORD to blaspheme, the child also that is born unto thee shall surely die.

12:15    拿單就回家去了。耶和華擊打烏利亞妻給大衛所生的孩子，使他得重病。
And Nathan departed unto his house. And the LORD struck the child that Uriah's wife bare unto David, and it was very sick.

12:16    所以大衛為這孩子懇求神，而且禁食，進入內室，終夜躺在地上。
David therefore besought God for the child; and David fasted, and went in, and lay all night upon the earth.

12:17    他家中的老臣來到他旁邊，要把他從地上扶起來，他卻不肯起來，也不同他們吃飯。
And the elders of his house arose, and went to him, to raise him up from the earth: but he would not, neither did he eat bread with them.

12:18    到第七日，孩子死了。大衛的臣僕不敢告訴他孩子死了，因他們說，孩子還活著的時候，我們勸他，他尚且不肯聽我們的話，若告訴他孩子死了，豈不更加憂傷嗎。
And it came to pass on the seventh day, that the child died. And the servants of David feared to tell him that the child was dead: for they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spake unto him, and he would not hearken unto our voice: how will he then vex himself, if we tell him that the child is dead?

12:19    大衛見臣僕彼此低聲說話，就知道孩子死了，問臣僕說，孩子死了嗎。他們說，死了。
But when David saw that his servants whispered, David perceived that the child was dead: therefore David said unto his servants, Is the child dead? And they said, He is dead.

12:20    大衛就從地上起來，沭浴，抹膏，換了衣裳，進耶和華的殿敬拜。然後回宮，吩咐人擺飯，他便吃了。
Then David arose from the earth, and washed, and anointed himself, and changed his apparel, and came into the house of the LORD, and worshipped: then he came to his own house; and when he required, they set bread before him, and he did eat.

12:21    臣僕問他說，你所行的是什麼意思。孩子活著的時候，你禁食哭泣。孩子死了，你倒起來吃飯。
Then said his servants unto him, What thing is this that thou hast done? thou didst fast and weep for the child, while it was alive; but when the child was dead, thou didst rise and eat bread.

12:22    大衛說，孩子還活著，我禁食哭泣。因為我想，或者耶和華憐恤我，使孩子不死也未可知。
And he said, While the child was yet alive, I fasted and wept: for I said, Who can tell whether GOD will be gracious to me, that the child may live?

12:23    孩子死了，我何必禁食，我豈能使他返回呢。我必往他那裡去，他卻不能回我這裡來。
But now he is dead, wherefore should I fast? can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he shall not return to me.

12:24    大衛安慰他的妻拔示巴，與她同寢，她就生了兒子，給他起名叫所羅門。耶和華也喜愛他，
And David comforted Bathsheba his wife, and went in unto her, and lay with her: and she bare a son, and he called his name Solomon: and the LORD loved him.

12:25    就藉先知拿單賜他一個名字，叫耶底底亞，因為耶和華愛他。
And he sent by the hand of Nathan the prophet; and he called his name Jedidiah, because of the LORD.

12:26    約押攻取亞捫人的京城拉巴。
And Joab fought against Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and took the royal city.

12:27    約押打發使者去見大衛，說，我攻打拉巴，取其水城。
And Joab sent messengers to David, and said, I have fought against Rabbah, and have taken the city of waters.

12:28    現在你要聚集其餘的軍兵來，安營圍攻這城，恐怕我取了這城，人就以我的名叫這城。
Now therefore gather the rest of the people together, and encamp against the city, and take it: lest I take the city, and it be called after my name.

12:29    於是大衛聚集眾軍，往拉巴去攻城，就取了這城，
And David gathered all the people together, and went to Rabbah, and fought against it, and took it.

12:30    奪了亞捫人之王所戴的金冠冕（王或作瑪勒堪。瑪勒堪就是米勒公，又名摩洛，亞捫族之神名），其上的金子重一他連得，又嵌著寶石。人將這冠冕戴在大衛頭上。大衛從城裡奪了許多財物，
And he took their king's crown from off his head, the weight whereof was a talent of gold with the precious stones: and it was set on David's head. And he brought forth the spoil of the city in great abundance.

12:31    將城裡的人拉出來，放在鋸下，或鐵耙下，或鐵斧下，或叫他經過磚窯（或作強他們用鋸，或用打糧食的鐵器，或用鐵斧作工，或使在磚窯裡服役）。大衛待亞捫各城的居民都是如此。其後，大衛和眾軍都回耶路撒冷去了。
And he brought forth the people that were therein, and put them under saws, and under harrows of iron, and under axes of iron, and made them pass through the brick-kiln: and thus did he unto all the cities of the children of Ammon. So David and all the people returned unto Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


13:1    大衛的兒子押沙龍有一個美貌的妹子，名叫他瑪。大衛的兒子暗嫩愛她。
And it came to pass after this, that Absalom the son of David had a fair sister, whose name was Tamar; and Amnon the son of David loved her.

13:2    暗嫩為他妹子他瑪憂急成病。他瑪還是處女，暗嫩以為難向她行事。
And Amnon was so vexed, that he fell sick for his sister Tamar; for she was a virgin; and Amnon thought it hard for him to do anything to her.

13:3    暗嫩有一個朋友，名叫約拿達，是大衛長兄示米亞的兒子。這約拿達為人極其狡猾。
But Amnon had a friend, whose name was Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David's brother: and Jonadab was a very subtil man.

13:4    他問暗嫩說，王的兒子阿，為何一天比一天瘦弱呢。請你告訴我。暗嫩回答說，我愛我兄弟押沙龍的妹子他瑪。
And he said unto him, Why art thou, being the king's son, lean from day to day? wilt thou not tell me? And Amnon said unto him, I love Tamar, my brother Absalom's sister.

13:5    約拿達說，你不如躺在床上裝病。你父親來看你，就對他說，求父叫我妹子他瑪來，在我眼前預備食物，遞給我吃，使我看見，好從她手裡接過來吃。
And Jonadab said unto him, Lay thee down on thy bed, and make thyself sick: and when thy father cometh to see thee, say unto him, I pray thee, let my sister Tamar come, and give me meat, and dress the meat in my sight, that I may see it, and eat it at her hand.

13:6    於是暗嫩躺臥裝病。王來看他，他對王說，求父叫我妹子他瑪來，在我眼前為我作兩個餅，我好從她手裡接過來吃。
So Amnon lay down, and made himself sick: and when the king was come to see him, Amnon said unto the king, I pray thee, let Tamar my sister come, and make me a couple of cakes in my sight, that I may eat at her hand.

13:7    大衛就打發人到宮裡，對他瑪說，你往你哥哥暗嫩的屋裡去，為他預備食物。
Then David sent home to Tamar, saying, Go now to thy brother Amnon's house, and dress him meat.

13:8    他瑪就到她哥哥暗嫩的屋裡。暗嫩正躺臥。他瑪摶面，在他眼前作餅，且烤熟了，
So Tamar went to her brother Amnon's house; and he was laid down. And she took flour, and kneaded it, and made cakes in his sight, and did bake the cakes.

13:9    在他面前將餅從鍋裡倒出來，他卻不肯吃，便說，眾人離開我出去吧。眾人就都離開他，出去了。
And she took a pan, and poured them out before him; but he refused to eat. And Amnon said, Have out all men from me. And they went out every man from him.

13:10    暗嫩對他瑪說，你把食物拿進臥房，我好從你手裡接過來吃。他瑪就把所作的餅拿進臥房，到她哥哥暗嫩那裡，
And Amnon said unto Tamar, Bring the meat into the chamber, that I may eat of thine hand. And Tamar took the cakes which she had made, and brought them into the chamber to Amnon her brother.

13:11    拿著餅上前給他吃，他便拉住他瑪，說，我妹妹，你來與我同寢。
And when she had brought them unto him to eat, he took hold of her, and said unto her, Come lie with me, my sister.

13:12    他瑪說，我哥哥，不要玷辱我。以色列人中不當這樣行，你不要作這醜事。
And she answered him, Nay, my brother, do not force me; for no such thing ought to be done in Israel: do not thou this folly.

13:13    你玷辱了我，我何以掩蓋我的羞恥呢。你在以色列中也成了愚妄人。你可以求王，他必不禁止我歸你。
And I, whither shall I cause my shame to go? and as for thee, thou shalt be as one of the fools in Israel. Now therefore, I pray thee, speak unto the king; for he will not withhold me from thee.

13:14    但暗嫩不肯聽她的話，因比她力大，就玷辱她，與她同寢。
Howbeit he would not hearken unto her voice: but, being stronger than she, forced her, and lay with her.

13:15    隨後，暗嫩極其恨她，那恨她的心比先前愛她的心更甚，對她說，你起來，去吧。
Then Amnon hated her exceedingly; so that the hatred wherewith he hated her was greater than the love wherewith he had loved her. And Amnon said unto her, Arise, be gone.

13:16    他瑪說，不要這樣。你趕出我去的這罪比你才行的更重。但暗嫩不肯聽她的話，
And she said unto him, There is no cause: this evil in sending me away is greater than the other that thou didst unto me. But he would not hearken unto her.

13:17    就叫伺候自己的僕人來，說，將這個女子趕出去。她一出去，你就關門，上閂。
Then he called his servant that ministered unto him, and said, Put now this woman out from me, and bolt the door after her.

13:18    那時他瑪穿著綵衣，因為沒有出嫁的公主都是這樣穿。暗嫩的僕人就把她趕出去，關門上閂。
And she had a garment of divers colours upon her: for with such robes were the king's daughters that were virgins apparelled. Then his servant brought her out, and bolted the door after her.

13:19    他瑪把灰塵撒在頭上，撕裂所穿的綵衣，以手抱頭，一面行走，一面哭喊。
And Tamar put ashes on her head, and rent her garment of divers colours that was on her, and laid her hand on her head, and went on crying.

13:20    她胞兄押沙龍問她說，莫非你哥哥暗嫩與你親近了嗎。我妹妹，暫且不要作聲，他是你的哥哥，不要將這事放在心上。他瑪就孤孤單單地住在她胞兄押沙龍家裡。
And Absalom her brother said unto her, Hath Amnon thy brother been with thee? but hold now thy peace, my sister: he is thy brother; regard not this thing. So Tamar remained desolate in her brother Absalom's house.

13:21    大衛王聽見這事，就甚發怒。
But when king David heard of all these things, he was very wroth.

13:22    押沙龍並不和他哥哥暗嫩說好說歹。因為暗嫩玷辱他妹妹他瑪，所以押沙龍恨惡他。
And Absalom spake unto his brother Amnon neither good nor bad: for Absalom hated Amnon, because he had forced his sister Tamar.

13:23    過了二年，在靠近以法蓮的巴力夏瑣有人為押沙龍剪羊毛。押沙龍請王的眾子與他同去。
And it came to pass after two full years, that Absalom had sheepshearers in Baalhazor, which is beside Ephraim: and Absalom invited all the king's sons.

13:24    押沙龍來見王，說，現在有人為僕人剪羊毛，請王和王的臣僕與僕人同去。
And Absalom came to the king, and said, Behold now, thy servant hath sheepshearers; let the king, I beseech thee, and his servants go with thy servant.

13:25    王對押沙龍說，我兒，我們不必都去，恐怕使你耗費太多。押沙龍再三請王，王仍是不肯去，只為他祝福。
And the king said to Absalom, Nay, my son, let us not all now go, lest we be chargeable unto thee. And he pressed him: howbeit he would not go, but blessed him.

13:26    押沙龍說，王若不去，求王許我哥哥暗嫩同去。王說，何必要他去呢。
Then said Absalom, If not, I pray thee, let my brother Amnon go with us. And the king said unto him, Why should he go with thee?

13:27    押沙龍再三求王，王就許暗嫩和王的眾子與他同去。
But Absalom pressed him, that he let Amnon and all the king's sons go with him.

13:28    押沙龍吩咐僕人說，你們注意，看暗嫩飲酒暢快的時候，我對你們說殺暗嫩，你們便殺他，不要懼怕。這不是我吩咐你們的嗎。你們只管壯膽奮勇。
Now Absalom had commanded his servants, saying, Mark ye now when Amnon's heart is merry with wine, and when I say unto you, Smite Amnon; then kill him, fear not: have not I commanded you? be courageous, and be valiant.

13:29    押沙龍的僕人就照押沙龍所吩咐的，向暗嫩行了。王的眾子都起來，各人騎上騾子，逃跑了。
And the servants of Absalom did unto Amnon as Absalom had commanded. Then all the king's sons arose, and every man gat him up upon his mule, and fled.

13:30    他們還在路上，有風聲傳到大衛那裡，說，押沙龍將王的眾子都殺了，沒有留下一個。
And it came to pass, while they were in the way, that tidings came to David, saying, Absalom hath slain all the king's sons, and there is not one of them left.

13:31    王就起來，撕裂衣服，躺在地上。王的臣僕也都撕裂衣服，站在旁邊。
Then the king arose, and tare his garments, and lay on the earth; and all his servants stood by with their clothes rent.

13:32    大衛的長兄，示米亞的兒子約拿達說，我主，不要以為王的眾子少年人都殺了，只有暗嫩一個人死了。自從暗嫩玷辱押沙龍妹子他瑪的那日，押沙龍就定意殺暗嫩了。
And Jonadab, the son of Shimeah David's brother, answered and said, Let not my lord suppose that they have slain all the young men the king's sons; for Amnon only is dead: for by the appointment of Absalom this hath been determined from the day that he forced his sister Tamar.

13:33    現在，我主我王，不要把這事放在心上，以為王的眾子都死了，只有暗嫩一個人死了。
Now therefore let not my lord the king take the thing to his heart, to think that all the king's sons are dead: for Amnon only is dead.

13:34    押沙龍逃跑了。守望的少年人舉目觀看，見有許多人從山坡的路上來。
But Absalom fled. And the young man that kept the watch lifted up his eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came much people by the way of the hill side behind him.

13:35    約拿達對王說，看哪，王的眾子都來了，果然與你僕人所說的相合。
And Jonadab said unto the king, Behold, the king's sons come: as thy servant said, so it is.

13:36    話才說完，王的眾子都到了，放聲大哭，王和臣僕也都哭得甚慟。
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of speaking, that, behold, the king's sons came, and lifted up their voice and wept: and the king also and all his servants wept very sore.

13:37    押沙龍逃到基述王亞米忽的兒子達買那裡去了。大衛天天為他兒子悲哀。
But Absalom fled, and went to Talmai, the son of Ammihud, king of Geshur. And David mourned for his son every day.

13:38    押沙龍逃到基述，在那裡住了三年。
So Absalom fled, and went to Geshur, and was there three years.

13:39    暗嫩死了以後，大衛王得了安慰，心裡切切想念押沙龍。
And the soul of king David longed to go forth unto Absalom: for he was comforted concerning Amnon, seeing he was dead.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


14:1    洗魯雅的兒子約押，知道王心裡想念押沙龍，
Now Joab the son of Zeruiah perceived that the king's heart was toward Absalom.

14:2    就打發人往提哥亞去，從那裡叫了一個聰明的婦人來，對她說，請你假裝居喪的，穿上孝衣，不要用膏抹身，要裝作為死者許久悲哀的婦人。
And Joab sent to Tekoah, and fetched thence a wise woman, and said unto her, I pray thee, feign thyself to be a mourner, and put on now mourning apparel, and anoint not thyself with oil, but be as a woman that had a long time mourned for the dead:

14:3    進去見王，對王如此如此說。於是約押將當說的話教導了婦人。
And come to the king, and speak on this manner unto him. So Joab put the words in her mouth.

14:4    提哥亞婦人到王面前，伏地叩拜，說，王阿，求你拯救。
And when the woman of Tekoah spake to the king, she fell on her face to the ground, and did obeisance, and said, Help, O king.

14:5    王問她說，你有什麼事呢。回答說，婢女實在是寡婦，我丈夫死了。
And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, I am indeed a widow woman, and mine husband is dead.

14:6    我有兩個兒子，一日在田間爭鬥，沒有人解勸，這個就打死那個。
And thy handmaid had two sons, and they two strove together in the field, and there was none to part them, but the one smote the other, and slew him.

14:7    現在全家的人都起來攻擊婢女，說，你將那打死兄弟的交出來，我們好治死他，償他打死兄弟的命，滅絕那承受家業的。這樣，他們要將我剩下的炭火滅盡，不與我丈夫留名留後在世上。
And, behold, the whole family is risen against thine handmaid, and they said, Deliver him that smote his brother, that we may kill him, for the life of his brother whom he slew; and we will destroy the heir also: and so they shall quench my coal which is left, and shall not leave to my husband neither name nor remainder upon the earth.

14:8    王對婦人說，你回家去吧。我必為你下令。
And the king said unto the woman, Go to thine house, and I will give charge concerning thee.

14:9    提哥亞婦人又對王說，我主我王，願這罪歸我和我父家，與王和王的位無干。
And the woman of Tekoah said unto the king, My lord, O king, the iniquity be on me, and on my father's house: and the king and his throne be guiltless.

14:10    王說，凡難為你的，你就帶他到我這裡來，他必不再攪擾你。
And the king said, Whosoever saith ought unto thee, bring him to me, and he shall not touch thee any more.

14:11    婦人說，願王記念耶和華你的神，不許報血仇的人施行滅絕，恐怕他們滅絕我的兒子。王說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，你的兒子連一根頭髮也不致落在地上。
Then said she, I pray thee, let the king remember the LORD thy God, that thou wouldest not suffer the revengers of blood to destroy any more, lest they destroy my son. And he said, As the LORD liveth, there shall not one hair of thy son fall to the earth.

14:12    婦人說，求我主我王容婢女再說一句話。王說，你說吧。
Then the woman said, Let thine handmaid, I pray thee, speak one word unto my lord the king. And he said, Say on.

14:13    婦人說，王為何也起意要害神的民呢。王不使那逃亡的人回來，王的這話就是自證己錯了。
And the woman said, Wherefore then hast thou thought such a thing against the people of God? for the king doth speak this thing as one which is faulty, in that the king doth not fetch home again his banished.

14:14    我們都是必死的，如同水潑在地上，不能收回。神並不奪取人的性命，乃設法使逃亡的人不致成為趕出，回不來的。
For we must needs die, and are as water spilt on the ground, which cannot be gathered up again; neither doth God respect any person: yet doth he devise means, that his banished be not expelled from him.

14:15    我來將這話告訴我主我王，是因百姓使我懼怕。婢女想，不如將這話告訴王，或者王成就婢女所求的。
Now therefore that I am come to speak of this thing unto my lord the king, it is because the people have made me afraid: and thy handmaid said, I will now speak unto the king; it may be that the king will perform the request of his handmaid.

14:16    人要將我和我兒子從神的地業上一同除滅，王必應允救我脫離他的手。
For the king will hear, to deliver his handmaid out of the hand of the man that would destroy me and my son together out of the inheritance of God.

14:17    婢女又想，我主我王的話必安慰我。因為我主我王能辨別是非，如同神的使者一樣。惟願耶和華你的神與你同在。
Then thine handmaid said, The word of my lord the king shall now be comfortable: for as an angel of God, so is my lord the king to discern good and bad: therefore the LORD thy God will be with thee.

14:18    王對婦人說，我要問你一句話，你一點不要瞞我。婦人說，願我主我王說。
Then the king answered and said unto the woman, Hide not from me, I pray thee, the thing that I shall ask thee. And the woman said, Let my lord the king now speak.

14:19    王說，你這些話莫非是約押的主意嗎。婦人說，我敢在我主我王面前起誓，王的話升對，不偏左右，是王的僕人約押吩咐我的，這些話是他教導我的。
And the king said, Is not the hand of Joab with thee in all this? And the woman answered and said, As thy soul liveth, my lord the king, none can turn to the right hand or to the left from ought that my lord the king hath spoken: for thy servant Joab, he bade me, and he put all these words in the mouth of thine handmaid:

14:20    王的僕人約押如此行，為要挽回這事。我主的智慧卻如神使者的智慧，能知世上一切事。
To fetch about this form of speech hath thy servant Joab done this thing: and my lord is wise, according to the wisdom of an angel of God, to know all things that are in the earth.

14:21    王對約押說，我應允你這事。你可以去，把那少年人押沙龍帶回來。
And the king said unto Joab, Behold now, I have done this thing: go therefore, bring the young man Absalom again.

14:22    約押就面伏於地叩拜，祝謝於王，又說，王既應允僕人所求的，僕人今日知道在我主我王眼前蒙恩了。
And Joab fell to the ground on his face, and bowed himself, and thanked the king: and Joab said, To day thy servant knoweth that I have found grace in thy sight, my lord, O king, in that the king hath fulfilled the request of his servant.

14:23    於是約押起身往基述去，將押沙龍帶回耶路撒冷。
So Joab arose and went to Geshur, and brought Absalom to Jerusalem.

14:24    王說，使他回自己家裡去，不要見我的面。押沙龍就回自己家裡去，沒有見王的面。
And the king said, Let him turn to his own house, and let him not see my face. So Absalom returned to his own house, and saw not the king's face.

14:25    以色列全地之中，無人像押沙龍那樣俊美，得人的稱讚，從腳底到頭頂毫無瑕疵。
But in all Israel there was none to be so much praised as Absalom for his beauty: from the sole of his foot even to the crown of his head there was no blemish in him.

14:26    他的頭髮甚重，每到年底剪髮一次。所剪下來的，按王的平稱一稱，重二百舍客勒。
And when he polled his head, (for it was at every year's end that he polled it: because the hair was heavy on him, therefore he polled it:) he weighed the hair of his head at two hundred shekels after the king's weight.

14:27    押沙龍生了三個兒子，一個女兒。女兒名叫他瑪，是個容貌俊美的女子。
And unto Absalom there were born three sons, and one daughter, whose name was Tamar: she was a woman of a fair countenance.

14:28    押沙龍住在耶路撒冷足有二年，沒有見王的面。
So Absalom dwelt two full years in Jerusalem, and saw not the king's face.

14:29    押沙龍打發人去叫約押來，要託他去見王，約押卻不肯來。第二次打發人去叫他，他仍不肯來。
Therefore Absalom sent for Joab, to have sent him to the king; but he would not come to him: and when he sent again the second time, he would not come.

14:30    所以押沙龍對僕人說，你們看，約押有一塊田，與我的田相近，其中有大麥，你們去放火燒了。押沙龍的僕人就去放火燒了那田。
Therefore he said unto his servants, See, Joab's field is near mine, and he hath barley there; go and set it on fire. And Absalom's servants set the field on fire.

14:31    於是約押起來，到了押沙龍家裡，問他說，你的僕人為何放火燒了我的田呢。
Then Joab arose, and came to Absalom unto his house, and said unto him, Wherefore have thy servants set my field on fire?

14:32    押沙龍回答約押說，我打發人去請你來，好託你去見王，替我說，我為何從基述回來呢。不如仍在那裡。現在要許我見王的面。我若有罪，任憑王殺我就是了。
And Absalom answered Joab, Behold, I sent unto thee, saying, Come hither, that I may send thee to the king, to say, Wherefore am I come from Geshur? it had been good for me to have been there still: now therefore let me see the king's face; and if there be any iniquity in me, let him kill me.

14:33    於是約押去見王，將這話奏告王，王便叫押沙龍來。押沙龍來見王，在王面前俯伏於地，王就與押沙龍親嘴。
So Joab came to the king, and told him: and when he had called for Absalom, he came to the king, and bowed himself on his face to the ground before the king: and the king kissed Absalom.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


15:1    此後，押沙龍為自己預備車馬，又派五十人在他前頭奔走。
And it came to pass after this, that Absalom prepared him chariots and horses, and fifty men to run before him.

15:2    押沙龍常常早晨起來，站在城門的道旁，凡有爭訟要去求王判斷的，押沙龍就叫他過來，問他說，你是哪一城的人。回答說，僕人是以色列某支派的人。
And Absalom rose up early, and stood beside the way of the gate: and it was so, that when any man that had a controversy came to the king for judgment, then Absalom called unto him, and said, Of what city art thou? And he said, Thy servant is of one of the tribes of Israel.

15:3    押沙龍對他說，你的事有情有理，無奈王沒有委人聽你伸訴。
And Absalom said unto him, See, thy matters are good and right; but there is no man deputed of the king to hear thee.

15:4    押沙龍又說，恨不得我作國中的士師。凡有爭訟求審判的到我這裡來，我必秉公判斷。
Absalom said moreover, Oh that I were made judge in the land, that every man which hath any suit or cause might come unto me, and I would do him justice!

15:5    若有人近前來要拜押沙龍，押沙龍就伸手拉住他，與他親嘴。
And it was so, that when any man came nigh to him to do him obeisance, he put forth his hand, and took him, and kissed him.

15:6    以色列人中，凡去見王求判斷的，押沙龍都是如此待他們。這樣，押沙龍暗中得了以色列人的心。
And on this manner did Absalom to all Israel that came to the king for judgment: so Absalom stole the hearts of the men of Israel.

15:7    滿了四十年（有作四年的），押沙龍對王說，求你準我往希伯侖去，還我向耶和華所許的願。
And it came to pass after forty years, that Absalom said unto the king, I pray thee, let me go and pay my vow, which I have vowed unto the LORD, in Hebron.

15:8    因為僕人住在亞蘭的基述，曾許願說，耶和華若使我再回耶路撒冷，我必事奉他。
For thy servant vowed a vow while I abode at Geshur in Syria, saying, If the LORD shall bring me again indeed to Jerusalem, then I will serve the LORD.

15:9    王說，你平平安安地去吧。押沙龍就起身，往希伯侖去了。
And the king said unto him, Go in peace. So he arose, and went to Hebron.

15:10    押沙龍打發探子走遍以色列各支派，說，你們一聽見角聲就說，押沙龍在希伯侖作王了。
But Absalom sent spies throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, As soon as ye hear the sound of the trumpet, then ye shall say, Absalom reigneth in Hebron.

15:11    押沙龍在耶路撒冷請了二百人與他同去，都是誠誠實實去的，並不知道其中的真情。
And with Absalom went two hundred men out of Jerusalem, that were called; and they went in their simplicity, and they knew not any thing.

15:12    押沙龍獻祭的時候，打發人去將大衛的謀士，基羅人亞希多弗從他本城請了來。於是叛逆的勢派甚大。因為隨從押沙龍的人民，日漸增多。
And Absalom sent for Ahithophel the Gilonite, David's counsellor, from his city, even from Giloh, while he offered sacrifices. And the conspiracy was strong; for the people increased continually with Absalom.

15:13    有人報告大衛說，以色列人的心都歸向押沙龍了。
And there came a messenger to David, saying, The hearts of the men of Israel are after Absalom.

15:14    大衛就對耶路撒冷跟隨他的臣僕說，我們要起來逃走，不然都不能躲避押沙龍了。要速速地去，恐怕他忽然來到，加害於我們，用刀殺盡合城的人。
And David said unto all his servants that were with him at Jerusalem, Arise, and let us flee; for we shall not else escape from Absalom: make speed to depart, lest he overtake us suddenly, and bring evil upon us, and smite the city with the edge of the sword.

15:15    王的臣僕對王說，我主我王所定的，僕人都願遵行。
And the king's servants said unto the king, Behold, thy servants are ready to do whatsoever my lord the king shall appoint.

15:16    於是王帶著全家的人出去了，但留下十個妃嬪看守宮殿。
And the king went forth, and all his household after him. And the king left ten women, which were concubines, to keep the house.

15:17    王出去，眾民都跟隨他，到伯墨哈，就住下了。
And the king went forth, and all the people after him, and tarried in a place that was far off.

15:18    王的臣僕都在他面前過去。基利提人，比利提人，就是從迦特跟隨王來的六百人，也都在他面前過去。
And all his servants passed on beside him; and all the Cherethites, and all the Pelethites, and all the Gittites, six hundred men which came after him from Gath, passed on before the king.

15:19    王對迦特人以太說，你是外邦逃來的人，為什麼與我們同去呢。你可以回去與新王同住，或者回你本地去吧。
Then said the king to Ittai the Gittite, Wherefore goest thou also with us? return to thy place, and abide with the king: for thou art a stranger, and also an exile.

15:20    你來的日子不多，我今日怎好叫你與我們一同飄流，沒有一定的住處呢。你不如帶你的弟兄回去吧。願耶和華用慈愛誠實待你。
Whereas thou camest but yesterday, should I this day make thee go up and down with us? seeing I go whither I may, return thou, and take back thy brethren: mercy and truth be with thee.

15:21    以太對王說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，又敢在王面前起誓，無論生死，王在哪裡，僕人也必在那裡。
And Ittai answered the king, and said, As the LORD liveth, and as my lord the king liveth, surely in what place my lord the king shall be, whether in death or life, even there also will thy servant be.

15:22    大衛對以太說，你前去過河吧。於是迦特人以太帶著跟隨他的人和所有的婦人孩子，就都過去了。
And David said to Ittai, Go and pass over. And Ittai the Gittite passed over, and all his men, and all the little ones that were with him.

15:23    本地的人都放聲大哭。眾民盡都過去，王也過了汲淪溪。眾民往曠野去了。
And all the country wept with a loud voice, and all the people passed over: the king also himself passed over the brook Kidron, and all the people passed over, toward the way of the wilderness.

15:24    撒督和抬神約櫃的利未人也一同來了，將神的約櫃放下。亞比亞他上來，等著眾民從城裡出來過去。
And lo Zadok also, and all the Levites were with him, bearing the ark of the covenant of God: and they set down the ark of God; and Abiathar went up, until all the people had done passing out of the city.

15:25    王對撒督說，你將神的約櫃抬回城去。我若在耶和華眼前蒙恩，他必使我回來，再見約櫃和他的居所。
And the king said unto Zadok, Carry back the ark of God into the city: if I shall find favour in the eyes of the LORD, he will bring me again, and shew me both it, and his habitation:

15:26    倘若他說，我不喜悅你，看哪，我在這裡，願他憑自己的意旨待我。
But if he thus say, I have no delight in thee; behold, here am I, let him do to me as seemeth good unto him.

15:27    王又對祭司撒督說，你不是先見嗎。你可以安然回城。你兒子亞希瑪斯和亞比亞他的兒子約拿單都可以與你同去。
The king said also unto Zadok the priest, Art not thou a seer? return into the city in peace, and your two sons with you, Ahimaaz thy son, and Jonathan the son of Abiathar.

15:28    我在曠野的渡口那裡等你們報信給我。
See, I will tarry in the plain of the wilderness, until there come word from you to certify me.

15:29    於是撒督和亞比亞他將神的約櫃抬回耶路撒冷，他們就住在那裡。
Zadok therefore and Abiathar carried the ark of God again to Jerusalem: and they tarried there.

15:30    大衛矇頭赤腳上橄欖山，一面上，一面哭。跟隨他的人也都矇頭哭著上去。
And David went up by the ascent of mount Olivet, and wept as he went up, and had his head covered, and he went barefoot: and all the people that was with him covered every man his head, and they went up, weeping as they went up.

15:31    有人告訴大衛說，亞希多弗也在叛黨之中，隨從押沙龍。戴衛禱告說，耶和華阿，求你使亞希多弗的計謀變為愚拙。
And one told David, saying, Ahithophel is among the conspirators with Absalom. And David said, O LORD, I pray thee, turn the counsel of Ahithophel into foolishness.

15:32    大衛到了山頂，敬拜神的地方，見亞基人戶篩，衣服撕裂，頭蒙灰塵來迎接他。
And it came to pass, that when David was come to the top of the mount, where he worshipped God, behold, Hushai the Archite came to meet him with his coat rent, and earth upon his head:

15:33    大衛對他說，你若與我同去，必累贅我。
Unto whom David said, If thou passest on with me, then thou shalt be a burden unto me:

15:34    你若回城去，對押沙龍說，王阿，我願作你的僕人。我向來作你父親的僕人，現在我也照樣作你的僕人。這樣，你就可以為我破壞亞希多弗的計謀。
But if thou return to the city, and say unto Absalom, I will be thy servant, O king; as I have been thy father's servant hitherto, so will I now also be thy servant: then mayest thou for me defeat the counsel of Ahithophel.

15:35    祭司撒督和亞比亞他豈不都在那裡嗎。你在王宮裡聽見什麼，就要告訴祭司撒督和亞比亞他。
And hast thou not there with thee Zadok and Abiathar the priests? therefore it shall be, that what thing soever thou shalt hear out of the king's house, thou shalt tell it to Zadok and Abiathar the priests.

15:36    撒督的兒子亞希瑪斯，亞比亞他的兒子約拿單，也都在那裡。凡你們所聽見的可以託這二人來報告我。
Behold, they have there with them their two sons, Ahimaaz Zadok's son, and Jonathan Abiathar's son; and by them ye shall send unto me every thing that ye can hear.

15:37    於是，大衛的朋友戶篩進了城。押沙龍也進了耶路撒冷。
So Hushai David's friend came into the city, and Absalom came into Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


16:1    大衛剛過山頂，見米非波設的僕人洗巴拉著備好了的兩匹驢，驢上馱著二百麵餅，一百葡萄餅，一百個夏天的果餅，一皮袋酒來迎接他。
And when David was a little past the top of the hill, behold, Ziba the servant of Mephibosheth met him, with a couple of asses saddled, and upon them two hundred loaves of bread, and an hundred bunches of raisins, and an hundred of summer fruits, and a bottle of wine.

16:2    王問洗巴說，你帶這些來是什麼意思呢。洗巴說，驢是給王的家眷騎的。麵餅和夏天的果餅是給少年人吃的。酒是給在曠野疲乏人喝的。
And the king said unto Ziba, What meanest thou by these? And Ziba said, The asses be for the king's household to ride on; and the bread and summer fruit for the young men to eat; and the wine, that such as be faint in the wilderness may drink.

16:3    王問說，你主人的兒子在哪裡呢。洗巴回答王說，他仍在耶路撒冷，因他說，以色列人今日必將我父的國歸還我。
And the king said, And where is thy master's son? And Ziba said unto the king, Behold, he abideth at Jerusalem: for he said, To day shall the house of Israel restore me the kingdom of my father.

16:4    王對洗巴說，凡屬米非波設的都歸你了。洗巴說，我叩拜我主我王，願我在你眼前蒙恩。
Then said the king to Ziba, Behold, thine are all that pertained unto Mephibosheth. And Ziba said, I humbly beseech thee that I may find grace in thy sight, my lord, O king.

16:5    大衛王到了巴戶琳，見有一個人出來，是掃羅族基拉的兒子，名叫示每。他一面走一面咒罵，
And when king David came to Bahurim, behold, thence came out a man of the family of the house of Saul, whose name was Shimei, the son of Gera: he came forth, and cursed still as he came.

16:6    又拿石頭砍大衛王和王的臣僕。眾民和勇士都在王的左右。
And he cast stones at David, and at all the servants of king David: and all the people and all the mighty men were on his right hand and on his left.

16:7    示每咒罵說，你這流人血的壞人哪，去吧去吧。
And thus said Shimei when he cursed, Come out, come out, thou bloody man, and thou man of Belial:

16:8    你流掃羅全家的血，接續他作王。耶和華把這罪歸在你身上，將這國交給你兒子押沙龍。現在你自取其禍，因為你是流人血的人。
The LORD hath returned upon thee all the blood of the house of Saul, in whose stead thou hast reigned; and the LORD hath delivered the kingdom into the hand of Absalom thy son: and, behold, thou art taken in thy mischief, because thou art a bloody man.

16:9    洗魯雅的兒子亞比篩對王說，這死狗豈可咒罵我主我王呢。求你容我過去，割下他的頭來。
Then said Abishai the son of Zeruiah unto the king, Why should this dead dog curse my lord the king? let me go over, I pray thee, and take off his head.

16:10    王說，洗魯雅的兒子，我與你們有何關涉呢。他咒罵是因耶和華吩咐他說，你要咒罵大衛。如此，誰敢說你為什麼這樣行呢。
And the king said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah? so let him curse, because the LORD hath said unto him, Curse David. Who shall then say, Wherefore hast thou done so?

16:11    大衛又對亞比篩和眾臣僕說，我親生的兒子尚且尋索我的性命，何況這便雅憫人呢。由他咒罵吧。因為這是耶和華吩咐他的。
And David said to Abishai, and to all his servants, Behold, my son, which came forth of my bowels, seeketh my life: how much more now may this Benjamite do it? let him alone, and let him curse; for the LORD hath bidden him.

16:12    或者耶和華見我遭難，為我今日被這人咒罵，就施恩與我。
It may be that the LORD will look on mine affliction, and that the LORD will requite me good for his cursing this day.

16:13    於是大衛和跟隨他的人往前行走。示每在大衛對面山坡，一面行走一面咒罵，又拿石頭砍他，拿土揚他。
And as David and his men went by the way, Shimei went along on the hill's side over against him, and cursed as he went, and threw stones at him, and cast dust.

16:14    王和跟隨他的眾人疲疲乏乏地到了一個地方，就在那裡歇息歇息。
And the king, and all the people that were with him, came weary, and refreshed themselves there.

16:15    押沙龍和以色列眾人來到耶路撒冷。亞希多弗也與他同來。
And Absalom, and all the people the men of Israel, came to Jerusalem, and Ahithophel with him.

16:16    大衛的朋友亞基人戶篩去見押沙龍，對他說，願王萬歲。願王萬歲。
And it came to pass, when Hushai the Archite, David's friend, was come unto Absalom, that Hushai said unto Absalom, God save the king, God save the king.

16:17    押沙龍問戶篩說，這是你恩待朋友嗎。為什麼不與你的朋友同去呢。
And Absalom said to Hushai, Is this thy kindness to thy friend? why wentest thou not with thy friend?

16:18    戶篩對押沙龍說，不然，耶和華和這民，並以色列眾人所揀選的，我必歸順他，與他同住。
And Hushai said unto Absalom, Nay; but whom the LORD, and this people, and all the men of Israel, choose, his will I be, and with him will I abide.



16:19    再者，我當服事誰呢。豈不是前王的兒子嗎。我怎樣服事你父親，也必照樣服事你。
And again, whom should I serve? should I not serve in the presence of his son? as I have served in thy father's presence, so will I be in thy presence.

16:20    押沙龍對亞希多弗說，你們出個主意，我們怎樣行才好。
Then said Absalom to Ahithophel, Give counsel among you what we shall do.

16:21    亞希多弗對押沙龍說，你父所留下看守宮殿的妃嬪，你可以與她們親近。以色列眾人聽見你父親憎惡你，凡歸順你人的手就更堅強。
And Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Go in unto thy father's concubines, which he hath left to keep the house; and all Israel shall hear that thou art abhorred of thy father: then shall the hands of all that are with thee be strong.

16:22    於是人為押沙龍在宮殿的平頂上支搭帳棚。押沙龍在以色列眾人眼前，與他父的妃嬪親近。
So they spread Absalom a tent upon the top of the house; and Absalom went in unto his father's concubines in the sight of all Israel.

16:23    那時亞希多弗所出的主意好像人問神的話一樣。他昔日給大衛，今日給押沙龍所出的主意，都是這樣。
And the counsel of Ahithophel, which he counselled in those days, was as if a man had enquired at the oracle of God: so was all the counsel of Ahithophel both with David and with Absalom.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


17:1    亞希多弗又對押沙龍說，求你準我挑選一萬二千人，今夜我就起身追趕大衛，
Moreover Ahithophel said unto Absalom, Let me now choose out twelve thousand men, and I will arise and pursue after David this night:

17:2    趁他疲乏手軟，我忽然追上他，使他驚惶。跟隨他的民必都逃跑，我就單殺王一人，
And I will come upon him while he is weary and weak handed, and will make him afraid: and all the people that are with him shall flee; and I will smite the king only:

17:3    使眾民都歸順你。你所尋梢的人既然死了，眾民就如已經歸順你。這樣，也都平安無事了。
And I will bring back all the people unto thee: the man whom thou seekest is as if all returned: so all the people shall be in peace.

17:4    押沙龍和以色列的長老都以這話為美。
And the saying pleased Absalom well, and all the elders of Israel.

17:5    押沙龍說，要召亞基人戶篩來，我們也要聽他怎樣說。
Then said Absalom, Call now Hushai the Archite also, and let us hear likewise what he saith.

17:6    戶篩到了押沙龍面前，押沙龍向他說，亞希多弗是如此如此說的，我們照著他的話行可以不可以。若不可，你就說吧。
And when Hushai was come to Absalom, Absalom spake unto him, saying, Ahithophel hath spoken after this manner: shall we do after his saying? if not; speak thou.

17:7    戶篩對押沙龍說，亞希多弗這次所定的謀不善。
And Hushai said unto Absalom, The counsel that Ahithophel hath given is not good at this time.

17:8    戶篩又說，你知道，你父親和跟隨他的人都是勇士，現在他們心裡惱怒，如同田野丟崽子的母熊一般，而且你父親是個戰士，必不和民一同住宿。
For, said Hushai, thou knowest thy father and his men, that they be mighty men, and they be chafed in their minds, as a bear robbed of her whelps in the field: and thy father is a man of war, and will not lodge with the people.

17:9    他現今或藏在坑中或在別處，若有人首先被殺，凡聽見的必說，跟隨押沙龍的民被殺了。
Behold, he is hid now in some pit, or in some other place: and it will come to pass, when some of them be overthrown at the first, that whosoever heareth it will say, There is a slaughter among the people that follow Absalom.

17:10    雖有人膽大如獅子，他的心也必消化。因為以色列人都知道你父親是英雄，跟隨他的人也都是勇士。
And he also that is valiant, whose heart is as the heart of a lion, shall utterly melt: for all Israel knoweth that thy father is a mighty man, and they which be with him are valiant men.

17:11    依我之計，不如將以色列眾人從但直到別是巴，如同海邊的沙那樣多聚集到你這裡來，你也親自率領他們出戰。
Therefore I counsel that all Israel be generally gathered unto thee, from Dan even to Beersheba, as the sand that is by the sea for multitude; and that thou go to battle in thine own person.

17:12    這樣，我們在何處遇見他，就下到他那裡，如同露水下在地上一般，連他帶跟隨他的人，一個也不留下。
So shall we come upon him in some place where he shall be found, and we will light upon him as the dew falleth on the ground: and of him and of all the men that are with him there shall not be left so much as one.

17:13    他若進了哪一座城，以色列眾人必帶繩子去，將那城拉到河裡，甚至連一塊小石頭都不剩下。
Moreover, if he be gotten into a city, then shall all Israel bring ropes to that city, and we will draw it into the river, until there be not one small stone found there.

17:14    押沙龍和以色列眾人說，亞基人戶篩的計謀比亞希多弗的計謀更好。這是因耶和華定意破壞亞希多弗的良謀，為要降禍與押沙龍。
And Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The counsel of Hushai the Archite is better than the counsel of Ahithophel. For the LORD had appointed to defeat the good counsel of Ahithophel, to the intent that the LORD might bring evil upon Absalom.

17:15    戶篩對祭司撒督和亞比亞他說，亞希多弗為押沙龍和以色列的長老所定的計謀是如此如此，我所定的計謀是如此如此。
Then said Hushai unto Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, Thus and thus did Ahithophel counsel Absalom and the elders of Israel; and thus and thus have I counselled.

17:16    現在你們要急速打發人去，告訴大衛說，今夜不可住在曠野的渡口，務要過河，免得王和跟隨他的人都被吞滅。
Now therefore send quickly, and tell David, saying, Lodge not this night in the plains of the wilderness, but speedily pass over; lest the king be swallowed up, and all the people that are with him.

17:17    那時，約拿單和亞希瑪斯在隱羅結那裡等候，不敢進城，恐怕被人看見。有一個使女出來，將這話告訴他們，他們就去報信給大衛王。
Now Jonathan and Ahimaaz stayed by Enrogel; for they might not be seen to come into the city: and a wench went and told them; and they went and told king David.

17:18    然而有一個童子看見他們，就去告訴押沙龍。他們急忙跑到巴戶琳某人的家裡。那人院中有一口井，他們就下到井裡。
Nevertheless a lad saw them, and told Absalom: but they went both of them away quickly, and came to a man's house in Bahurim, which had a well in his court; whither they went down.

17:19    那家的婦人用蓋蓋上井口，又在上頭鋪上碎麥，事就沒有洩漏。
And the woman took and spread a covering over the well's mouth, and spread ground corn thereon; and the thing was not known.

17:20    押沙龍的僕人來到那家，問婦人說，亞希瑪斯和約拿單在哪裡。婦人說，他們過了河了。僕人找他們，找不著，就回耶路撒冷去了。
And when Absalom's servants came to the woman to the house, they said, Where is Ahimaaz and Jonathan? And the woman said unto them, They be gone over the brook of water. And when they had sought and could not find them, they returned to Jerusalem.

17:21    他們走後，二人從井裡上來，去告訴大衛王說，亞希多弗如此如此定計害你，你們務要起來，快快過河。
And it came to pass, after they were departed, that they came up out of the well, and went and told king David, and said unto David, Arise, and pass quickly over the water: for thus hath Ahithophel counselled against you.

17:22    於是大衛和跟隨他的人都起來，過約旦河。到了天亮，無一人不過約旦河的。
Then David arose, and all the people that were with him, and they passed over Jordan: by the morning light there lacked not one of them that was not gone over Jordan.

17:23    亞希多弗見不依從他的計謀，就備上驢，歸回本城。到了家，留下遺言，便吊死了，葬在他父親的墳墓裡。
And when Ahithophel saw that his counsel was not followed, he saddled his ass, and arose, and gat him home to his house, to his city, and put his household in order, and hanged himself, and died, and was buried in the sepulchre of his father.

17:24    大衛到了瑪哈念，押沙龍和跟隨他的以色列人也都過了約旦河。
Then David came to Mahanaim. And Absalom passed over Jordan, he and all the men of Israel with him.

17:25    押沙龍立亞瑪撒作元帥，代替約押。亞瑪撒是以實瑪利人（又作以色列人）以特拉的兒子。以特拉曾與拿轄的女兒亞比該親近。這亞比該與約押的母親洗魯雅是姊妹。
And Absalom made Amasa captain of the host instead of Joab: which Amasa was a man's son, whose name was Ithra an Israelite, that went in to Abigail the daughter of Nahash, sister to Zeruiah Joab's mother.

17:26    押沙龍和以色列人都安營在基列地。
So Israel and Absalom pitched in the land of Gilead.

17:27    大衛到了瑪哈念，亞捫族的拉巴人拿轄的兒子朔比，羅底巴人亞米利的兒子瑪吉，基列的羅基琳人巴西萊，
And it came to pass, when David was come to Mahanaim, that Shobi the son of Nahash of Rabbah of the children of Ammon, and Machir the son of Ammiel of Lodebar, and Barzillai the Gileadite of Rogelim,

17:28    帶著被，褥，盆，碗，瓦器，小麥，大麥，麥面，炒谷，豆子，紅豆，炒豆，
Brought beds, and basons, and earthen vessels, and wheat, and barley, and flour, and parched corn, and beans, and lentiles, and parched pulse,

17:29    蜂蜜，奶油，綿羊，奶餅，供給大衛和跟隨他的人吃。他們說，民在曠野，必飢渴睏乏了。
And honey, and butter, and sheep, and cheese of kine, for David, and for the people that were with him, to eat: for they said, The people is hungry, and weary, and thirsty, in the wilderness.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


18:1    大衛數點跟隨他的人，立千夫長，百夫長率領他們。
And David numbered the people that were with him, and set captains of thousands and captains of hundreds over them.

18:2    大衛打發軍兵出戰，分為三隊，一隊在約押手下，一隊在洗魯雅的兒子，約押兄弟亞比篩手下，一隊在迦特人以太手下。大衛對軍兵說，我必與你們一同出戰。
And David sent forth a third part of the people under the hand of Joab, and a third part under the hand of Abishai the son of Zeruiah, Joab's brother, and a third part under the hand of Ittai the Gittite. And the king said unto the people, I will surely go forth with you myself also.

18:3    軍兵卻說，你不可出戰。若是我們逃跑，敵人必不介意。我們陣亡一半，敵人也不介意。因為你一人強似我們萬人，你不如在城裡預備幫助我們。
But the people answered, Thou shalt not go forth: for if we flee away, they will not care for us; neither if half of us die, will they care for us: but now thou art worth ten thousand of us: therefore now it is better that thou succour us out of the city.

18:4    王向他們說，你們以為怎樣好，我就怎樣行。於是王站在城門旁，軍兵或百或千地挨次出去了。
And the king said unto them, What seemeth you best I will do. And the king stood by the gate side, and all the people came out by hundreds and by thousands.

18:5    王囑咐約押，亞比篩，以太說，你們要為我的緣故寬待那少年人押沙龍。王為押沙龍囑咐眾將的話，兵都聽見了。
And the king commanded Joab and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Deal gently for my sake with the young man, even with Absalom. And all the people heard when the king gave all the captains charge concerning Absalom.

18:6    兵就出到田野迎著以色列人，在以法蓮樹林裡交戰。
So the people went out into the field against Israel: and the battle was in the wood of Ephraim;

18:7    以色列人敗在大衛的僕人面前。那日陣亡的甚多，共有二萬人。
Where the people of Israel were slain before the servants of David, and there was there a great slaughter that day of twenty thousand men.

18:8    因為在那裡四面打仗，死於樹林的比死於刀劍的更多。
For the battle was there scattered over the face of all the country: and the wood devoured more people that day than the sword devoured.

18:9    押沙龍偶然遇見大衛的僕人。押沙龍騎著騾子，從大橡樹密枝底下經過，他的頭髮被樹枝繞住，就懸掛起來，所騎的騾子便離他去了。
And Absalom met the servants of David. And Absalom rode upon a mule, and the mule went under the thick boughs of a great oak, and his head caught hold of the oak, and he was taken up between the heaven and the earth; and the mule that was under him went away.

18:10    有個人看見，就告訴約押說，我看見押沙龍掛在橡樹上了。
And a certain man saw it, and told Joab, and said, Behold, I saw Absalom hanged in an oak.

18:11    約押對報信的人說，你既看見他，為什麼不將他打死落在地上呢。你若打死他，我就賞你十舍客勒銀子，一條帶子。
And Joab said unto the man that told him, And, behold, thou sawest him, and why didst thou not smite him there to the ground? and I would have given thee ten shekels of silver, and a girdle.

18:12    那人對約押說，我就是得你一千舍客勒銀子，我也不敢伸手害王的兒子。因為我們聽見王囑咐你和亞比篩並以太說，你們要謹慎，不可害那少年人押沙龍。
And the man said unto Joab, Though I should receive a thousand shekels of silver in mine hand, yet would I not put forth mine hand against the king's son: for in our hearing the king charged thee and Abishai and Ittai, saying, Beware that none touch the young man Absalom.

18:13    我若妄為害了他的性命，就是你自己也必與我為敵。原來無論何事都瞞不過王。
Otherwise I should have wrought falsehood against mine own life: for there is no matter hid from the king, and thou thyself wouldest have set thyself against me.

18:14    約押說，我不能與你留連。約押手拿三杆短槍，趁押沙龍在橡樹上還活著，就刺透他的心。
Then said Joab, I may not tarry thus with thee. And he took three darts in his hand, and thrust them through the heart of Absalom, while he was yet alive in the midst of the oak.

18:15    給約押拿兵器的十個少年人圍繞押沙龍，將他殺死。
And ten young men that bare Joab's armour compassed about and smote Absalom, and slew him.

18:16    約押吹角，攔阻眾人，他們就回來，不再追趕以色列人。
And Joab blew the trumpet, and the people returned from pursuing after Israel: for Joab held back the people.

18:17    他們將押沙龍丟在林中一個大坑裡，上頭堆起一大堆石頭。以色列眾人都逃跑，各回各家去了。
And they took Absalom, and cast him into a great pit in the wood, and laid a very great heap of stones upon him: and all Israel fled every one to his tent.

18:18    押沙龍活著的時候，在王谷立了一根石柱，因他說，我沒有兒子為我留名。他就以自己的名稱那石柱叫押沙龍柱，直到今日。
Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and reared up for himself a pillar, which is in the king's dale: for he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance: and he called the pillar after his own name: and it is called unto this day, Absalom's place.

18:19    撒督的兒子亞希瑪斯說，容我跑去，將耶和華向仇敵給王報仇的資訊報與王知。
Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok, Let me now run, and bear the king tidings, how that the LORD hath avenged him of his enemies.

18:20    約押對他說，你今日不可去報信，改日可以報信。因為今日王的兒子死了，所以你不可去報信。
And Joab said unto him, Thou shalt not bear tidings this day, but thou shalt bear tidings another day: but this day thou shalt bear no tidings, because the king's son is dead.

18:21    約押對古示人說，你去將你所看見的告訴王。古示人在約押面前下拜，就跑去了。
Then said Joab to Cushi, Go tell the king what thou hast seen. And Cushi bowed himself unto Joab, and ran.

18:22    撒督的兒子亞希瑪斯又對約押說，無論怎樣，求你容我隨著古示人跑去。約押說，我兒，你報這資訊，既不得賞賜，何必要跑去呢。
Then said Ahimaaz the son of Zadok yet again to Joab, But howsoever, let me, I pray thee, also run after Cushi. And Joab said, Wherefore wilt thou run, my son, seeing that thou hast no tidings ready?

18:23    他又說，無論怎樣，我要跑去。約押說，你跑去吧。亞希瑪斯就從平原往前跑，跑過古示人去了。
But howsoever, said he, let me run. And he said unto him, Run. Then Ahimaaz ran by the way of the plain, and overran Cushi.

18:24    大衛正坐在城甕裡。守望的人上城門樓的頂上，舉目觀看，見有一個人獨自跑來。
And David sat between the two gates: and the watchman went up to the roof over the gate unto the wall, and lifted up his eyes, and looked, and behold a man running alone.

18:25    守望的人就大聲告訴王。王說，他若獨自來，必是報口信的。那人跑得漸漸近了。
And the watchman cried, and told the king. And the king said, If he be alone, there is tidings in his mouth. And he came apace, and drew near.

18:26    守望的人又見一人跑來，就對守城門的人說，又有一人獨自跑來。王說，這也必是報信的。
And the watchman saw another man running: and the watchman called unto the porter, and said, Behold another man running alone. And the king said, He also bringeth tidings.

18:27    守望的人說，我看前頭人的跑法，好像撒督的兒子亞希瑪斯的跑法一樣。王說，他是個好人，必是報好資訊。
And the watchman said, Me thinketh the running of the foremost is like the running of Ahimaaz the son of Zadok. And the king said, He is a good man, and cometh with good tidings.

18:28    亞希瑪斯向王呼叫說，平安了。就在王面前臉伏於地叩拜，說，耶和華你的神是應當稱頌的，因他已將那舉手攻擊我主我王的人交給王了。
And Ahimaaz called, and said unto the king, All is well. And he fell down to the earth upon his face before the king, and said, Blessed be the LORD thy God, which hath delivered up the men that lifted up their hand against my lord the king.

18:29    王問說，少年人押沙龍平安不平安。亞希瑪斯回答說，約押打發王的僕人，那時僕人聽見眾民大聲喧譁，卻不知道是什麼事。
And the king said, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Ahimaaz answered, When Joab sent the king's servant, and me thy servant, I saw a great tumult, but I knew not what it was.

18:30    王說，你退去，站在旁邊。他就退去，站在旁邊。
And the king said unto him, Turn aside, and stand here. And he turned aside, and stood still.

18:31    古示人也來到，說，有資訊報給我主我王。耶和華今日向一切興起攻擊你的人給你報仇了。
And, behold, Cushi came; and Cushi said, Tidings, my lord the king: for the LORD hath avenged thee this day of all them that rose up against thee.

18:32    王問古示人說，少年人押沙龍平安不平安。古示人回答說，願我主我王的仇敵，和一切興起要殺害你的人，都與那少年人一樣。
And the king said unto Cushi, Is the young man Absalom safe? And Cushi answered, The enemies of my lord the king, and all that rise against thee to do thee hurt, be as that young man is.

18:33    王就心裡傷慟，上城門樓去哀哭，一面走一面說，我兒押沙龍阿。我兒，我兒押沙龍阿。我恨不得替你死，押沙龍阿，我兒。我兒。
And the king was much moved, and went up to the chamber over the gate, and wept: and as he went, thus he said, O my son Absalom, my son, my son Absalom! would God I had died for thee, O Absalom, my son, my son!




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


19:1    有人告訴約押說，王為押沙龍哭泣悲哀。
And it was told Joab, Behold, the king weepeth and mourneth for Absalom.

19:2    眾民聽說王為他兒子憂愁，他們得勝的歡樂卻變成悲哀。
And the victory that day was turned into mourning unto all the people: for the people heard say that day how the king was grieved for his son.

19:3    那日眾民暗暗地進城，就如敗陣逃跑，慚愧的民一般。
And the people gat them by stealth that day into the city, as people being ashamed steal away when they flee in battle.

19:4    王蒙著臉，大聲哭號說，我兒押沙龍阿。押沙龍，我兒，我兒阿。
But the king covered his face, and the king cried with a loud voice, O my son Absalom, O Absalom, my son, my son!

19:5    約押進去見王，說，你今日使你一切僕人臉面慚愧了。他們今日救了你的性命和你兒女妻妾的性命，
And Joab came into the house to the king, and said, Thou hast shamed this day the faces of all thy servants, which this day have saved thy life, and the lives of thy sons and of thy daughters, and the lives of thy wives, and the lives of thy concubines;

19:6    你卻愛那恨你的人，恨那愛你的人。你今日明明地不以將帥，僕人為念。我今日看明，若押沙龍活著，我們都死亡，你就喜悅了。
In that thou lovest thine enemies, and hatest thy friends. For thou hast declared this day, that thou regardest neither princes nor servants: for this day I perceive, that if Absalom had lived, and all we had died this day, then it had pleased thee well.

19:7    現在你當出去，安慰你僕人的心。我指著耶和華起誓，你若不出去，今夜必無一人與你同在一處。這禍患就比你從幼年到如今所遭的更甚。
Now therefore arise, go forth, and speak comfortably unto thy servants: for I swear by the LORD, if thou go not forth, there will not tarry one with thee this night: and that will be worse unto thee than all the evil that befell thee from thy youth until now.

19:8    於是王起來，坐在城門口。眾民聽說王坐在城門口，就都到王面前。以色列人已經逃跑，各回各家去了。
Then the king arose, and sat in the gate. And they told unto all the people, saying, Behold, the king doth sit in the gate. And all the people came before the king: for Israel had fled every man to his tent.

19:9    以色列眾支派的人紛紛議論說，王曾救我們脫離仇敵的手，又救我們脫離非利士人的手，現在他躲避押沙龍逃走了。
And all the people were at strife throughout all the tribes of Israel, saying, The king saved us out of the hand of our enemies, and he delivered us out of the hand of the Philistines; and now he is fled out of the land for Absalom.

19:10    我們膏押沙龍治理我們，他已經陣亡。現在為什麼不出一言請王回來呢。
And Absalom, whom we anointed over us, is dead in battle. Now therefore why speak ye not a word of bringing the king back?

19:11    大衛王差人去見祭司撒督和亞比亞他，說，你們當向猶大長老說，以色列眾人已經有話請王回宮，你們為什麼落在他們後頭呢。
And king David sent to Zadok and to Abiathar the priests, saying, Speak unto the elders of Judah, saying, Why are ye the last to bring the king back to his house? seeing the speech of all Israel is come to the king, even to his house.

19:12    你們是我的弟兄，是我的骨肉，為什麼在人後頭請王回來呢。
Ye are my brethren, ye are my bones and my flesh: wherefore then are ye the last to bring back the king?

19:13    也要對亞瑪撒說，你不是我的骨肉嗎。我若不立你替約押常作元帥，願神重重地降罰與我。
And say ye to Amasa, Art thou not of my bone, and of my flesh? God do so to me, and more also, if thou be not captain of the host before me continually in the room of Joab.

19:14    如此就挽回猶大眾人的心，如同一人的心。他們便打發人去見王，說，請王和王的一切臣僕回來。
And he bowed the heart of all the men of Judah, even as the heart of one man; so that they sent this word unto the king, Return thou, and all thy servants.

19:15    王就回來，到了約旦河。猶大人來到吉甲，要去迎接王，請他過約旦河。
So the king returned, and came to Jordan. And Judah came to Gilgal, to go to meet the king, to conduct the king over Jordan.

19:16    巴戶琳的便雅憫人，基拉的兒子示每急忙與猶大人一同下去迎接大衛王。
And Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite, which was of Bahurim, hasted and came down with the men of Judah to meet king David.

19:17    跟從示每的有一千便雅憫人，還有掃羅家的僕人洗巴和他十五個兒子，二十個僕人。他們都趟過約旦河迎接王。
And there were a thousand men of Benjamin with him, and Ziba the servant of the house of Saul, and his fifteen sons and his twenty servants with him; and they went over Jordan before the king.

19:18    有擺渡船過去，渡王的家眷，任王使用。王要過約旦河的時候，基拉的兒子示每就俯伏在王面前，
And there went over a ferry boat to carry over the king's household, and to do what he thought good. And Shimei the son of Gera fell down before the king, as he was come over Jordan;

19:19    對王說，我主我王出耶路撒冷的時候，僕人行悖逆的事，現在求我主不要因此加罪與僕人，不要記念，也不要放在心上。
And said unto the king, Let not my lord impute iniquity unto me, neither do thou remember that which thy servant did perversely the day that my lord the king went out of Jerusalem, that the king should take it to his heart.

19:20    僕人明知自己有罪，所以約瑟全家之中，今日我首先下來迎接我主我王。
For thy servant doth know that I have sinned: therefore, behold, I am come the first this day of all the house of Joseph to go down to meet my lord the king.

19:21    洗魯雅的兒子亞比篩說，示每既咒罵耶和華的受膏者，不應當治死他嗎。
But Abishai the son of Zeruiah answered and said, Shall not Shimei be put to death for this, because he cursed the LORD's anointed?

19:22    大衛說，洗魯雅的兒子，我與你們有何關涉，使你們今日與我反對呢。今日在以色列中豈可治死人呢。我豈不知今日我作以色列的王嗎。
And David said, What have I to do with you, ye sons of Zeruiah, that ye should this day be adversaries unto me? shall there any man be put to death this day in Israel? for do not I know that I am this day king over Israel?

19:23    於是王對示每說，你必不死。王就向他起誓。
Therefore the king said unto Shimei, Thou shalt not die. And the king sware unto him.

19:24    掃羅的孫子米非波設也下去迎接王。他自從王去的日子，直到王平平安安地回來，沒有修腳，沒有剃鬍須，也沒有洗衣服。
And Mephibosheth the son of Saul came down to meet the king, and had neither dressed his feet, nor trimmed his beard, nor washed his clothes, from the day the king departed until the day he came again in peace.

19:25    他來到耶路撒冷迎接王的時候，王問他說，米非波設，你為什麼沒有與我同去呢。
And it came to pass, when he was come to Jerusalem to meet the king, that the king said unto him, Wherefore wentest not thou with me, Mephibosheth?

19:26    他回答說，我主我王，僕人是瘸腿的。那日我想要備驢騎上，與王同去，無奈我的僕人欺哄了我，
And he answered, My lord, O king, my servant deceived me: for thy servant said, I will saddle me an ass, that I may ride thereon, and go to the king; because thy servant is lame.

19:27    又在我主我王面前讒毀我。然而我主我王如同神的使者一般，你看怎樣好，就怎樣行吧。
And he hath slandered thy servant unto my lord the king; but my lord the king is as an angel of God: do therefore what is good in thine eyes.

19:28    因為我祖全家的人，在我主我王面前都算為死人，王卻使僕人在王的席上同人吃飯，我現在向王還能辨理訴冤嗎。
For all of my father's house were but dead men before my lord the king: yet didst thou set thy servant among them that did eat at thine own table. What right therefore have I yet to cry any more unto the king?

19:29    王對他說，你何必再提你的事呢。我說，你與洗巴均分地土。
And the king said unto him, Why speakest thou any more of thy matters? I have said, Thou and Ziba divide the land.

19:30    米非波設對王說，我主我王既平平安安地回宮，就任憑洗巴都取了也可以。
And Mephibosheth said unto the king, Yea, let him take all, forasmuch as my lord the king is come again in peace unto his own house.



19:31    基列人巴西萊從羅基琳下來，要送王過約旦河，就與王一同過了約旦河。
And Barzillai the Gileadite came down from Rogelim, and went over Jordan with the king, to conduct him over Jordan.

19:32    巴西萊年紀老邁，已經八十歲了。王住在瑪哈唸的時候，他就拿食物來供給王。他原是大富戶。
Now Barzillai was a very aged man, even fourscore years old: and he had provided the king of sustenance while he lay at Mahanaim; for he was a very great man.

19:33    王對巴西萊說，你與我同去，我要在耶路撒冷那裡養你的老。
And the king said unto Barzillai, Come thou over with me, and I will feed thee with me in Jerusalem.

19:34    巴西萊對王說，我在世的年日還能有多少，使我與王同上耶路撒冷呢。
And Barzillai said unto the king, How long have I to live, that I should go up with the king unto Jerusalem?

19:35    僕人現在八十歲了，還能嚐出飲食的滋味，辨別美惡嗎。還能聽男女歌唱的聲音嗎。僕人何必累贅我主我王呢。
I am this day fourscore years old: and can I discern between good and evil? can thy servant taste what I eat or what I drink? can I hear any more the voice of singing men and singing women? wherefore then should thy servant be yet a burden unto my lord the king?

19:36    僕人只要送王過約旦河，王何必賜我這樣的恩典呢。
Thy servant will go a little way over Jordan with the king: and why should the king recompense it me with such a reward?

19:37    求你準我回去，好死在我本城，葬在我父母的墓旁。這裡有王的僕人金罕，讓他同我主我王過去，可以隨意待他。
Let thy servant, I pray thee, turn back again, that I may die in mine own city, and be buried by the grave of my father and of my mother. But behold thy servant Chimham; let him go over with my lord the king; and do to him what shall seem good unto thee.

19:38    王說，金罕可以與我同去，我必照你的心願待他。你向我求什麼，我都必為你成就。
And the king answered, Chimham shall go over with me, and I will do to him that which shall seem good unto thee: and whatsoever thou shalt require of me, that will I do for thee.

19:39    於是眾民過約旦河，王也過去。王與巴西萊親嘴，為他祝福，巴西萊就回本地去了。
And all the people went over Jordan. And when the king was come over, the king kissed Barzillai, and blessed him; and he returned unto his own place.

19:40    王過去，到了吉甲，金罕也跟他過去。猶大眾民和以色列民的一半也都送王過去。
Then the king went on to Gilgal, and Chimham went on with him: and all the people of Judah conducted the king, and also half the people of Israel.

19:41    以色列眾人來見王，對他說，我們弟兄猶大人為什麼暗暗送王和王的家眷，並跟隨王的人過約旦河。
And, behold, all the men of Israel came to the king, and said unto the king, Why have our brethren the men of Judah stolen thee away, and have brought the king, and his household, and all David's men with him, over Jordan?

19:42    猶大眾人回答以色列人說，因為王與我們是親屬，你們為何因這事發怒呢。我們吃了王的什麼呢。王賞賜了我們什麼呢。
And all the men of Judah answered the men of Israel, Because the king is near of kin to us: wherefore then be ye angry for this matter? have we eaten at all of the king's cost? or hath he given us any gift?

19:43    以色列人回答猶大人說，按支派，我們與王有十分的情分。在大衛身上，我們也比你們更有情分。你們為何藐視我們，請王回來不先與我們商量呢。但猶大人的話比以色列人的話更硬。
And the men of Israel answered the men of Judah, and said, We have ten parts in the king, and we have also more right in David than ye: why then did ye despise us, that our advice should not be first had in bringing back our king? And the words of the men of Judah were fiercer than the words of the men of Israel.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


20:1    在那裡恰巧有一個匪徒，名叫示巴，是便雅憫人比基利的兒子。他吹角，說，我們與大衛無分，與耶西的兒子無涉。以色列人哪，你們各回各家去吧。
And there happened to be there a man of Belial, whose name was Sheba, the son of Bichri, a Benjamite: and he blew a trumpet, and said, We have no part in David, neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to his tents, O Israel.

20:2    於是以色列人都離開大衛，跟隨比基利的兒子示巴。但猶大人從約旦河直到耶路撒冷，都緊緊跟隨他們的王。
So every man of Israel went up from after David, and followed Sheba the son of Bichri: but the men of Judah clave unto their king, from Jordan even to Jerusalem.

20:3    大衛王來到耶路撒冷，進了宮殿，就把從前留下看守宮殿的十個妃嬪禁閉在冷宮，養活她們，不與她們親近。她們如同寡婦被禁，直到死的日子。
And David came to his house at Jerusalem; and the king took the ten women his concubines, whom he had left to keep the house, and put them in ward, and fed them, but went not in unto them. So they were shut up unto the day of their death, living in widowhood.

20:4    王對亞瑪撒說，你要在三日之內將猶大人招聚了來，你也回到這裡來。
Then said the king to Amasa, Assemble me the men of Judah within three days, and be thou here present.

20:5    亞瑪撒就去招聚猶大人，卻耽延過了王所限的日期。
So Amasa went to assemble the men of Judah: but he tarried longer than the set time which he had appointed him.

20:6    大衛對亞比篩說，現在恐怕比基利的兒子示巴加害於我們比押沙龍更甚。你要帶領你主的僕人追趕他，免得他得了堅固城，躲避我們。
And David said to Abishai, Now shall Sheba the son of Bichri do us more harm than did Absalom: take thou thy lord's servants, and pursue after him, lest he get him fenced cities, and escape us.

20:7    約押的人和基利提人，比利提人，並所有的勇士，都跟著亞比篩，從耶路撒冷出去追趕比基利的兒子示巴。
And there went out after him Joab's men, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and all the mighty men: and they went out of Jerusalem, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.

20:8    他們到了基遍的大磐石那裡，亞瑪撒來迎接他們。那時約押穿著戰衣，腰束佩刀的帶子，刀在鞘內。約押前行，刀從鞘內掉出來。
When they were at the great stone which is in Gibeon, Amasa went before them. And Joab's garment that he had put on was girded unto him, and upon it a girdle with a sword fastened upon his loins in the sheath thereof; and as he went forth it fell out.

20:9    約押左手拾起刀來，對亞瑪撒說，我兄弟，你好阿。就用右手抓住亞瑪撒的鬍子，要與他親嘴。
And Joab said to Amasa, Art thou in health, my brother? And Joab took Amasa by the beard with the right hand to kiss him.

20:10    亞瑪撒沒有防備約押手裡所拿的刀。約押用刀刺入他的肚腹，他的腸子流在地上，沒有再刺他，就死了。約押和他兄弟亞比篩往前追趕比基利的兒子示巴。
But Amasa took no heed to the sword that was in Joab's hand: so he smote him therewith in the fifth rib, and shed out his bowels to the ground, and struck him not again; and he died. So Joab and Abishai his brother pursued after Sheba the son of Bichri.

20:11    有約押的一個少年人站在亞瑪撒屍身旁邊，對眾人說，誰喜悅約押，誰歸順大衛，就當跟隨約押去。
And one of Joab's men stood by him, and said, He that favoureth Joab, and he that is for David, let him go after Joab.

20:12    亞瑪撒在道路上滾在自己的血裡。那人見眾民經過都站住，就把亞瑪撒的屍身從路上挪到田間，用衣服遮蓋。
And Amasa wallowed in blood in the midst of the highway. And when the man saw that all the people stood still, he removed Amasa out of the highway into the field, and cast a cloth upon him, when he saw that every one that came by him stood still.

20:13    屍身從路上挪移之後，眾民就都跟隨約押去追趕比基利的兒子示巴。
When he was removed out of the highway, all the people went on after Joab, to pursue after Sheba the son of Bichri.

20:14    他走遍以色列各支派，直到伯瑪迦的亞比拉，並比利人的全地。那些地方的人也都聚集跟隨他。
And he went through all the tribes of Israel unto Abel, and to Bethmaachah, and all the Berites: and they were gathered together, and went also after him.

20:15    約押和跟隨的人到了伯瑪迦的亞比拉，圍困示巴，就對著城築壘。跟隨約押的眾民用錘撞城，要使城塌陷。
And they came and besieged him in Abel of Bethmaachah, and they cast up a bank against the city, and it stood in the trench: and all the people that were with Joab battered the wall, to throw it down.

20:16    有一個聰明婦人從城上呼叫說，聽阿，聽阿，請約押近前來，我好與他說話。
Then cried a wise woman out of the city, Hear, hear; say, I pray you, unto Joab, Come near hither, that I may speak with thee.

20:17    約押就近前來，婦人問他說，你是約押不是。他說，我是。婦人說，求你聽婢女的話。約押說，我聽。
And when he was come near unto her, the woman said, Art thou Joab? And he answered, I am he. Then she said unto him, Hear the words of thine handmaid. And he answered, I do hear.

20:18    婦人說，古時有話說，當先在亞比拉求問，然後事就定妥。
Then she spake, saying, They were wont to speak in old time, saying, They shall surely ask counsel at Abel: and so they ended the matter.

20:19    我們這城的人在以色列人中是和平，忠厚的。你為何要毀壞以色列中的大城，吞滅耶和華的產業呢。
I am one of them that are peaceable and faithful in Israel: thou seekest to destroy a city and a mother in Israel: why wilt thou swallow up the inheritance of the LORD?

20:20    約押回答說，我決不吞滅毀壞，
And Joab answered and said, Far be it, far be it from me, that I should swallow up or destroy.

20:21    乃因以法蓮山地的一個人比基利的兒子示巴舉手攻擊大衛王，你們若將他一人交出來，我便離城而去。婦人對約押說，那人的首級必從城牆上丟給你。
The matter is not so: but a man of mount Ephraim, Sheba the son of Bichri by name, hath lifted up his hand against the king, even against David: deliver him only, and I will depart from the city. And the woman said unto Joab, Behold, his head shall be thrown to thee over the wall.

20:22    婦人就憑她的智慧去勸眾人。他們便割下比基利的兒子示巴的首級，丟給約押。約押吹角，眾人就離城而散，各歸各家去了。約押回耶路撒冷，到王那裡。
Then the woman went unto all the people in her wisdom. And they cut off the head of Sheba the son of Bichri, and cast it out to Joab. And he blew a trumpet, and they retired from the city, every man to his tent. And Joab returned to Jerusalem unto the king.

20:23    約押作以色列全軍的元帥。耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅統轄基利提人和比利提人。
Now Joab was over all the host of Israel: and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and over the Pelethites:

20:24    亞多蘭掌管服苦的人。亞希律的兒子約沙法作史官。
And Adoram was over the tribute: and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud was recorder:

20:25    示法作書記。撒督和亞比亞他作祭司長。
And Sheva was scribe: and Zadok and Abiathar were the priests:

20:26    睚珥人以拉作大衛的宰相。
And Ira also the Jairite was a chief ruler about David.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


21:1    大衛年間有饑荒，一連三年，大衛就求問耶和華。耶和華說，這饑荒是因掃羅和他流人血之家殺死基遍人。
Then there was a famine in the days of David three years, year after year; and David enquired of the LORD. And the LORD answered, It is for Saul, and for his bloody house, because he slew the Gibeonites.

21:2    原來這基遍人不是以色列人，乃是亞摩利人中所剩的。以色列人曾向他們起誓，不殺滅他們，掃羅卻為以色列人和猶大人發熱心，想要殺滅他們。大衛王召了他們來，
And the king called the Gibeonites, and said unto them; (now the Gibeonites were not of the children of Israel, but of the remnant of the Amorites; and the children of Israel had sworn unto them: and Saul sought to slay them in his zeal to the children of Israel and Judah.)

21:3    問他們說，我當為你們怎樣行呢。可用什麼贖這罪，使你們為耶和華的產業祝福呢。
Wherefore David said unto the Gibeonites, What shall I do for you? and wherewith shall I make the atonement, that ye may bless the inheritance of the LORD?

21:4    基遍人回答說，我們和掃羅與他家的事並不關乎金銀，也不要因我們的緣故殺一個以色列人。大衛說，你們怎樣說，我就為你們怎樣行。
And the Gibeonites said unto him, We will have no silver nor gold of Saul, nor of his house; neither for us shalt thou kill any man in Israel. And he said, What ye shall say, that will I do for you.

21:5    他們對王說，那從前謀害我們，要滅我們，使我們不得再住以色列境內的人，
And they answered the king, The man that consumed us, and that devised against us that we should be destroyed from remaining in any of the coasts of Israel,

21:6    現在願將他的子孫七人交給我們，我們好在耶和華面前，將他們懸掛在耶和華揀選掃羅的基比亞。王說，我必交給你們。
Let seven men of his sons be delivered unto us, and we will hang them up unto the LORD in Gibeah of Saul, whom the LORD did choose. And the king said, I will give them.

21:7    王因為曾與掃羅的兒子約拿單指著耶和華起誓結盟，就愛惜掃羅的孫子，約拿單的兒子米非波設，不交出來。
But the king spared Mephibosheth, the son of Jonathan the son of Saul, because of the LORD's oath that was between them, between David and Jonathan the son of Saul.



21:8    卻把愛雅的女兒利斯巴給掃羅所生的兩個兒子亞摩尼，米非波設，和掃羅女兒米甲的姊姊給米何拉人巴西萊兒子亞得列所生的五個兒子
But the king took the two sons of Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, whom she bare unto Saul, Armoni and Mephibosheth; and the five sons of Michal the daughter of Saul, whom she brought up for Adriel the son of Barzillai the Meholathite:

21:9    交在基遍人的手裡。基遍人就把他們，在耶和華面前，懸掛在山上，這七人就一同死亡。被殺的時候正是收割的日子，就是動手割大麥的時候。
And he delivered them into the hands of the Gibeonites, and they hanged them in the hill before the LORD: and they fell all seven together, and were put to death in the days of harvest, in the first days, in the beginning of barley harvest.

21:10    愛雅的女兒利斯巴用麻布在磐石上搭棚，從動手收割的時候直到天降雨在屍身上的時候，日間不容空中的雀鳥落在屍身上，夜間不讓田野的走獸前來糟踐。
And Rizpah the daughter of Aiah took sackcloth, and spread it for her upon the rock, from the beginning of harvest until water dropped upon them out of heaven, and suffered neither the birds of the air to rest on them by day, nor the beasts of the field by night.

21:11    有人將掃羅的妃嬪愛雅女兒利斯巴所行的這事告訴大衛。
And it was told David what Rizpah the daughter of Aiah, the concubine of Saul, had done.

21:12    大衛就去，從基列雅比人那裡將掃羅和他兒子約拿單的骸骨搬了來。是因非利士人從前在基利波殺掃羅，將屍身懸掛在伯珊的街市上，基列雅比人把屍身偷了去。
And David went and took the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son from the men of Jabeshgilead, which had stolen them from the street of Bethshan, where the Philistines had hanged them, when the Philistines had slain Saul in Gilboa:

21:13    大衛將掃羅和他兒子約拿單的骸骨從那裡搬了來，又收殮被懸掛七人的骸骨，
And he brought up from thence the bones of Saul and the bones of Jonathan his son; and they gathered the bones of them that were hanged.

21:14    將掃羅和他兒子約拿單的骸骨葬在便雅憫的洗拉，在掃羅父親基士的墳墓裡。眾人行了王所吩咐的。此後神垂聽國民所求的。
And the bones of Saul and Jonathan his son buried they in the country of Benjamin in Zelah, in the sepulchre of Kish his father: and they performed all that the king commanded. And after that God was intreated for the land.

21:15    非利士人與以色列人打仗。大衛帶領僕人下去，與非利士人接戰，大衛就疲乏了。
Moreover the Philistines had yet war again with Israel; and David went down, and his servants with him, and fought against the Philistines: and David waxed faint.

21:16    偉人的一個兒子以實比諾要殺大衛。他的銅槍重三百舍客勒，又佩著新刀。
And Ishbibenob, which was of the sons of the giant, the weight of whose spear weighed three hundred shekels of brass in weight, he being girded with a new sword, thought to have slain David.

21:17    但洗魯雅的兒子亞比篩幫助大衛，攻打非利士人，將他殺死。當日，跟隨大衛的人向大衛起誓說，以後你不可再與我們一同出戰，恐怕熄滅以色列的燈。
But Abishai the son of Zeruiah succoured him, and smote the Philistine, and killed him. Then the men of David sware unto him, saying, Thou shalt go no more out with us to battle, that thou quench not the light of Israel.

21:18    後來，以色列人在歌伯與非利士人打仗，戶沙人西比該殺了偉人的一個兒子撒弗。
And it came to pass after this, that there was again a battle with the Philistines at Gob: then Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Saph, which was of the sons of the giant.

21:19    又在歌伯與非利士人打仗，伯利恆人雅雷俄珥金的兒子伊勒哈難殺了迦特人歌利亞。這人的槍桿粗如織布的機軸。
And there was again a battle in Gob with the Philistines, where Elhanan the son of Jaareoregim, a Bethlehemite, slew the brother of Goliath the Gittite, the staff of whose spear was like a weaver's beam.

21:20    又在迦特打仗，那裡有一個身量高大的人，手腳都是六指，共有二十四個指頭。他也是偉人的兒子。
And there was yet a battle in Gath, where was a man of great stature, that had on every hand six fingers, and on every foot six toes, four and twenty in number; and he also was born to the giant.

21:21    這人向以色列人罵陣，大衛的哥哥示米亞的兒子約拿單就殺了他。
And when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimeah the brother of David slew him.

21:22    這四個人是迦特偉人的兒子，都死在大衛和他僕人的手下。
These four were born to the giant in Gath, and fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


22:1    當耶和華救大衛脫離一切仇敵和掃羅之手的日子，他向耶和華念這詩，
And David spake unto the LORD the words of this song in the day that the LORD had delivered him out of the hand of all his enemies, and out of the hand of Saul:

22:2    說，耶和華是我的岩石，我的山寨，我的救主，
And he said, The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer;

22:3    我的神，我的磐石，我所投靠的。他是我的盾牌，是拯救我的角，是我的高臺，是我的避難所。我的救主阿，你是救我脫離強暴的。
The God of my rock; in him will I trust: he is my shield, and the horn of my salvation, my high tower, and my refuge, my saviour; thou savest me from violence.

22:4    我要求告當讚美的耶和華，這樣，我必從仇敵手中被救出來。
I will call on the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I be saved from mine enemies.

22:5    曾有死亡的波浪環繞我，匪類的急流使我驚懼，
When the waves of death compassed me, the floods of ungodly men made me afraid;

22:6    陰間的繩索纏繞我，死亡的網羅臨到我。
The sorrows of hell compassed me about; the snares of death prevented me;

22:7    我在急難中求告耶和華，向我的神呼求。他從殿中聽了我的聲音。我的呼求入了他的耳中。
In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried to my God: and he did hear my voice out of his temple, and my cry did enter into his ears.

22:8    那時因他發怒，地就搖撼戰抖。天的根基也震動搖撼。
Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations of heaven moved and shook, because he was wroth.

22:9    從他鼻孔冒煙上騰。從他口中發火焚燒，連炭也著了。
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.



22:10    他又使天下垂，親自降臨。有黑雲在他腳下。
He bowed the heavens also, and came down; and darkness was under his feet.

22:11    他坐著基路伯飛行，在風的翅膀上顯現。
And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: and he was seen upon the wings of the wind.

22:12    他以黑暗和聚集的水，天空的厚云為他四圍的行宮。
And he made darkness pavilions round about him, dark waters, and thick clouds of the skies.

22:13    因他面前的光輝炭都著了。
Through the brightness before him were coals of fire kindled.

22:14    耶和華從天上打雷。至高者發出聲音。
The LORD thundered from heaven, and the most High uttered his voice.

22:15    他射出箭來，使仇敵四散，發出閃電，使他們擾亂。
And he sent out arrows, and scattered them; lightning, and discomfited them.

22:16    耶和華的斥責一發，鼻孔的氣一出，海底就出現，大地的根基也顯露。
And the channels of the sea appeared, the foundations of the world were discovered, at the rebuking of the LORD, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils.

22:17    他從高天伸手抓住我，把我從大水中拉上來。
He sent from above, he took me; he drew me out of many waters;

22:18    他救我脫離我的勁敵和那些恨我的人，因為他們比我強盛。
He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them that hated me: for they were too strong for me.

22:19    我遭遇災難的日子，他們來攻擊我。但耶和華是我的倚靠。
They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my stay.

22:20    他又領我到寬闊之處。他救拔我，因他喜悅我。
He brought me forth also into a large place: he delivered me, because he delighted in me.

22:21    耶和華按著我的公義報答我，按著我手中的清潔賞賜我。
The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness: according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

22:22    因為我遵守了耶和華的道，未曾作惡離開我的神。
For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.

22:23    他的一切典章常在我面前。他的律例，我也未曾離棄。
For all his judgments were before me: and as for his statutes, I did not depart from them.

22:24    我在他面前作了完全人。我也保守自己遠離我的罪孽。
I was also upright before him, and have kept myself from mine iniquity.

22:25    所以耶和華按我的公義，按我在他眼前的清潔賞賜我。
Therefore the LORD hath recompensed me according to my righteousness; according to my cleanness in his eye sight.

22:26    慈愛的人，你以慈愛待他。完全的人，你以完全待他。
With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful, and with the upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright.

22:27    清潔的人，你以清潔待他。乖僻的人，你以彎曲待他。
With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward thou wilt shew thyself unsavoury.

22:28    困苦的百姓，你必拯救。但你的眼目察看高傲的人，使他降卑。
And the afflicted people thou wilt save: but thine eyes are upon the haughty, that thou mayest bring them down.

22:29    耶和華阿，你是我的燈。耶和華必照明我的黑暗。
For thou art my lamp, O LORD: and the LORD will lighten my darkness.

22:30    我藉著你衝入敵軍，藉著我的神跳過牆垣。
For by thee I have run through a troop: by my God have I leaped over a wall.

22:31    至於神，他的道是完全的。耶和華的話是煉淨的。凡投靠他的，他便作他們的盾牌。
As for God, his way is perfect; the word of the LORD is tried: he is a buckler to all them that trust in him.

22:32    除了耶和華，誰是神呢。除了我們的神，誰是磐石呢。
For who is God, save the LORD? and who is a rock, save our God?

22:33    神是我堅固的保障。他引導完全人行他的路。
God is my strength and power: and he maketh my way perfect.

22:34    他使我的腳快如母鹿的蹄，又使我在高處安穩。
He maketh my feet like hinds' feet: and setteth me upon my high places.

22:35    他教導我的手能以爭戰，甚至我的膀臂能開銅弓。
He teacheth my hands to war; so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.

22:36    你把你的救恩給我作盾牌。你的溫和使我為大。
Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy gentleness hath made me great.

22:37    你使我腳下的地步寬闊。我的腳未曾滑跌。
Thou hast enlarged my steps under me; so that my feet did not slip.

22:38    我追趕我的仇敵，滅絕了他們，未滅以先，我沒有歸回。
I have pursued mine enemies, and destroyed them; and turned not again until I had consumed them.

22:39    我滅絕了他們，打傷了他們，使他們不能起來。他們都倒在我的腳下。
And I have consumed them, and wounded them, that they could not arise: yea, they are fallen under my feet.

22:40    因為你曾以力量束我的腰，使我能爭戰。你也使那起來攻擊我的都服在我以下。
For thou hast girded me with strength to battle: them that rose up against me hast thou subdued under me.

22:41    你又使我的仇敵在我面前轉背逃跑，叫我能以剪除那恨我的人。
Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies, that I might destroy them that hate me.

22:42    他們仰望，卻無人拯救。就是呼求耶和華，他也不應允。
They looked, but there was none to save; even unto the LORD, but he answered them not.

22:43    我搗碎他們，如同地上的灰塵，踐踏他們，四散在地，如同街上的泥土。
Then did I beat them as small as the dust of the earth, I did stamp them as the mire of the street, and did spread them abroad.

22:44    你救我脫離我百姓的爭競，保護我作列國的元首。我素不認識的民必事奉我。
Thou also hast delivered me from the strivings of my people, thou hast kept me to be head of the heathen: a people which I knew not shall serve me.

22:45    外邦人要投降我，一聽見我的名聲就必順從我。
Strangers shall submit themselves unto me: as soon as they hear, they shall be obedient unto me.

22:46    外邦人要衰殘，戰戰兢兢地出他們的營寨。
Strangers shall fade away, and they shall be afraid out of their close places.

22:47    耶和華是活神，願我的磐石被人稱頌。願神那拯救我的磐石被人尊崇。
The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and exalted be the God of the rock of my salvation.

22:48    這位神就是那為我伸冤，使眾民服在我以下的。
It is God that avengeth me, and that bringeth down the people under me,

22:49    你救我脫離仇敵，又把我舉起，高過那些起來攻擊我的。你救我脫離強暴的人。
And that bringeth me forth from mine enemies: thou also hast lifted me up on high above them that rose up against me: thou hast delivered me from the violent man.

22:50    耶和華阿，因此我要在外邦中稱謝你，歌頌你的名。
Therefore I will give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the heathen, and I will sing praises unto thy name.

22:51    耶和華賜極大的救恩給他所立的王，施慈愛給他的受膏者，就是給大衛和他的後裔，直到永遠。
He is the tower of salvation for his king: and sheweth mercy to his anointed, unto David, and to his seed for evermore.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


23:1    以下是大衛末了的話。耶西的兒子大衛得居高位，是雅各神所膏的，作以色列的美歌者，說，
Now these be the last words of David. David the son of Jesse said, and the man who was raised up on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, and the sweet psalmist of Israel, said,

23:2    耶和華的靈藉著我說，他的話在我口中。
The Spirit of the LORD spake by me, and his word was in my tongue.

23:3    以色列的神，以色列的磐石曉諭我說，那以公義治理人民的，敬畏神執掌權柄，
The God of Israel said, the Rock of Israel spake to me, He that ruleth over men must be just, ruling in the fear of God.

23:4    他必像日出的晨光，如無雲的清晨，雨後的晴光，使地發生嫩草。
And he shall be as the light of the morning, when the sun riseth, even a morning without clouds; as the tender grass springing out of the earth by clear shining after rain.

23:5    我家在神面前並非如此。神卻與我立永遠的約。這約凡事堅穩，關乎我的一切救恩和我一切所想望的，他豈不為我成就嗎。
Although my house be not so with God; yet he hath made with me an everlasting covenant, ordered in all things, and sure: for this is all my salvation, and all my desire, although he make it not to grow.

23:6    但匪類都必像荊棘被丟棄。人不敢用手拿它。
But the sons of Belial shall be all of them as thorns thrust away, because they cannot be taken with hands:

23:7    拿它的人必帶鐵器和槍桿，終久它必被火焚燒。
But the man that shall touch them must be fenced with iron and the staff of a spear; and they shall be utterly burned with fire in the same place.

23:8    大衛勇士的名字記在下面，他革捫人約設巴設，又稱伊斯尼人亞底挪，他是軍長的統領，一時擊殺了八百人。
These be the names of the mighty men whom David had: The Tachmonite that sat in the seat, chief among the captains; the same was Adino the Eznite: he lift up his spear against eight hundred, whom he slew at one time.

23:9    其次是亞合人朵多的兒子以利亞撒。從前非利士人聚集要打仗，以色列人迎著上去，有跟隨大衛的三個勇士向非利士人罵陣，其中有以利亞撒。
And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo the Ahohite, one of the three mighty men with David, when they defied the Philistines that were there gathered together to battle, and the men of Israel were gone away:

23:10    他起來擊殺非利士人，直到手臂疲乏，手黏住刀把。那日耶和華使以色列人大獲全勝。眾民在以利亞撒後頭專奪財物。
He arose, and smote the Philistines until his hand was weary, and his hand clave unto the sword: and the LORD wrought a great victory that day; and the people returned after him only to spoil.

23:11    其次是哈拉人亞基的兒子沙瑪。一日，非利士人聚整合群，在一塊長滿紅豆的田裡，眾民就在非利士人面前逃跑。
And after him was Shammah the son of Agee the Hararite. And the Philistines were gathered together into a troop, where was a piece of ground full of lentiles: and the people fled from the Philistines.

23:12    沙瑪卻站在那田間擊殺非利士人，救護了那田。耶和華使以色列人大獲全勝。
But he stood in the midst of the ground, and defended it, and slew the Philistines: and the LORD wrought a great victory.

23:13    收割的時候，有三十個勇士中的三個人下到亞杜蘭洞見大衛。非利士的軍兵在利乏音谷安營。
And three of the thirty chief went down, and came to David in the harvest time unto the cave of Adullam: and the troop of the Philistines pitched in the valley of Rephaim.

23:14    那時大衛在山寨，非利士人的防營在伯利恆。
And David was then in an hold, and the garrison of the Philistines was then in Bethlehem.

23:15    大衛渴想，說，甚願有人將伯利恆城門旁，井裡的水打來給我喝。
And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, which is by the gate!

23:16    這三個勇士就闖過非利士人的營盤，從伯利恆城門旁的井裡打水，拿來奉給大衛。他卻不肯喝，將水奠在耶和華面前，
And the three mighty men brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: nevertheless he would not drink thereof, but poured it out unto the LORD.

23:17    說，耶和華阿，這三個人冒死去打水。這水好像他們的血一般，我斷不敢喝。如此，大衛不肯喝。這是三個勇士所作的事。
And he said, Be it far from me, O LORD, that I should do this: is not this the blood of the men that went in jeopardy of their lives? therefore he would not drink it. These things did these three mighty men.

23:18    洗魯雅的兒子，約押的兄弟亞比篩是這三個勇士的首領。他舉槍殺了三百人，就在三個勇士裡得了名。
And Abishai, the brother of Joab, the son of Zeruiah, was chief among three. And he lifted up his spear against three hundred, and slew them, and had the name among three.

23:19    他在這三個勇士裡是最尊貴的，所以作他們的首領，只是不及前三個勇士。
Was he not most honourable of three? therefore he was their captain: howbeit he attained not unto the first three.

23:20    有甲薛勇士耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅行過大能的事。他殺了摩押人亞利伊勒的兩個兒子，又在下雪的時候下坑裡去，殺了一個獅子，
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man, of Kabzeel, who had done many acts, he slew two lionlike men of Moab: he went down also and slew a lion in the midst of a pit in time of snow:

23:21    又殺了一個強壯的埃及人。埃及人手裡拿著槍，比拿雅只拿著棍子下去，從埃及人手裡奪過槍來，用那槍將他殺死。
And he slew an Egyptian, a goodly man: and the Egyptian had a spear in his hand; but he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear.

23:22    這是耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅所行的事，就在三個勇士裡得了名。
These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name among three mighty men.

23:23    他比那三十個勇士都尊貴，只是不及前三個勇士。大衛立他作護衛長。
He was more honourable than the thirty, but he attained not to the first three. And David set him over his guard.

23:24    三十個勇士裡有約押的兄弟亞撒黑，伯利恆人朵多的兒子伊勒哈難，
Asahel the brother of Joab was one of the thirty; Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

23:25    哈律人沙瑪，哈律人以利加，
Shammah the Harodite, Elika the Harodite,

23:26    帕勒提人希利斯，提哥亞人益吉的兒子以拉，
Helez the Paltite, Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite,

23:27    亞拿突人亞比以謝，戶沙人米本乃，
Abiezer the Anethothite, Mebunnai the Hushathite,

23:28    亞合人撒們，尼陀法人瑪哈萊，
Zalmon the Ahohite, Maharai the Netophathite,

23:29    尼陀法人巴拿的兒子希立，便雅憫族，基比亞人利拜的兒子以太，
Heleb the son of Baanah, a Netophathite, Ittai the son of Ribai out of Gibeah of the children of Benjamin,

23:30    比拉頓人比拿雅，迦實溪人希太，
Benaiah the Pirathonite, Hiddai of the brooks of Gaash,

23:31    伯亞拉巴人亞比亞本，巴魯米人押斯瑪弗，
Abialbon the Arbathite, Azmaveth the Barhumite,

23:32    沙本人以利雅哈巴，雅善兒子中的約拿單，
Eliahba the Shaalbonite, of the sons of Jashen, Jonathan,

23:33    哈拉人沙瑪，哈拉人沙拉的兒子亞希暗，
Shammah the Hararite, Ahiam the son of Sharar the Hararite,

23:34    瑪迦人亞哈拜的兒子以利法列，基羅人亞希多弗的兒子以連，
Eliphelet the son of Ahasbai, the son of the Maachathite, Eliam the son of Ahithophel the Gilonite,

23:35    迦密人希斯萊，亞巴人帕萊，
Hezrai the Carmelite, Paarai the Arbite,

23:36    瑣巴人拿單的兒子以甲，迦得人巴尼，
Igal the son of Nathan of Zobah, Bani the Gadite,

23:37    亞捫人洗勒，比錄人拿哈萊，是給洗魯雅的兒子約押拿兵器的，
Zelek the Ammonite, Nahari the Beerothite, armourbearer to Joab the son of Zeruiah,

23:38    以帖人以拉，以帖人迦立，
Ira an Ithrite, Gareb an Ithrite,

23:39    赫人烏利亞，共有三十七人。
Uriah the Hittite: thirty and seven in all.




舊約 -- 撒母耳記下(2 Samuel) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 24 章 )    　


24:1    耶和華又向以色列人發怒，就激動大衛，使他吩咐人去數點以色列人和猶大人。
And again the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he moved David against them to say, Go, number Israel and Judah.

24:2    大衛就吩咐跟隨他的元帥約押說，你去走遍以色列眾支派，從但直到別是巴，數點百姓，我好知道他們的數目。
For the king said to Joab the captain of the host, which was with him, Go now through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan even to Beersheba, and number ye the people, that I may know the number of the people.

24:3    約押對王說，無論百姓多少，願耶和華你的神再加增百倍，使我主我王親眼得見。我主我王何必喜悅行這事呢。
And Joab said unto the king, Now the LORD thy God add unto the people, how many soever they be, an hundredfold, and that the eyes of my lord the king may see it: but why doth my lord the king delight in this thing?

24:4    但王的命令勝過約押和眾軍長。約押和眾軍長就從王面前出去，數點以色列的百姓。
Notwithstanding the king's word prevailed against Joab, and against the captains of the host. And Joab and the captains of the host went out from the presence of the king, to number the people of Israel.

24:5    他們過了約旦河，在迦得谷中，城的右邊亞羅珥安營，與雅謝相對，
And they passed over Jordan, and pitched in Aroer, on the right side of the city that lieth in the midst of the river of Gad, and toward Jazer:

24:6    又到了基列和他停合示地，又到了但雅安，繞到西頓，
Then they came to Gilead, and to the land of Tahtimhodshi; and they came to Danjaan, and about to Zidon,

24:7    來到推羅的保障，並希未人和迦南人的各城，又到猶大南方的別是巴。
And came to the strong hold of Tyre, and to all the cities of the Hivites, and of the Canaanites: and they went out to the south of Judah, even to Beersheba.

24:8    他們走遍全地，過了九個月零二十天，就回到耶路撒冷。
So when they had gone through all the land, they came to Jerusalem at the end of nine months and twenty days.

24:9    約押將百姓的總數奏告於王，以色列拿刀的勇士有八十萬。猶大有五十萬。
And Joab gave up the sum of the number of the people unto the king: and there were in Israel eight hundred thousand valiant men that drew the sword; and the men of Judah were five hundred thousand men.

24:10    大衛數點百姓以後，就心中自責，禱告耶和華說，我行這事大有罪了。耶和華阿，求你除掉僕人的罪孽，因我所行的甚是愚昧。
And David's heart smote him after that he had numbered the people. And David said unto the LORD, I have sinned greatly in that I have done: and now, I beseech thee, O LORD, take away the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.

24:11    大衛早晨起來，耶和華的話臨到先知迦得，就是大衛的先見，說，
For when David was up in the morning, the word of the LORD came unto the prophet Gad, David's seer, saying,

24:12    你去告訴大衛，說耶和華如此說，我有三樣災，隨你選擇一樣，我好降與你。
Go and say unto David, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things; choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.

24:13    於是迦得來見大衛，對他說，你願意國中有七年的饑荒呢。是在你敵人面前逃跑，被追趕三個月呢。是在你國中有三日的瘟疫呢。現在你要揣摩思想，我好回覆那差我來的。
So Gad came to David, and told him, and said unto him, Shall seven years of famine come unto thee in thy land? or wilt thou flee three months before thine enemies, while they pursue thee? or that there be three days' pestilence in thy land? now advise, and see what answer I shall return to him that sent me.

24:14    大衛對迦得說，我甚為難。我願落在耶和華的手裡，因為他有豐盛的憐憫。我不願落在人的手裡。
And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let us fall now into the hand of the LORD; for his mercies are great: and let me not fall into the hand of man.

24:15    於是，耶和華降瘟疫與以色列人，自早晨到所定的時候。從但直到別是巴，民間死了七萬人。
So the LORD sent a pestilence upon Israel from the morning even to the time appointed: and there died of the people from Dan even to Beersheba seventy thousand men.

24:16    天使向耶路撒冷伸手要滅城的時候，耶和華後悔，就不降這災了，吩咐滅民的天使說，夠了，住手吧。那時耶和華的使者在耶布斯人亞勞拿的禾場那裡。
And when the angel stretched out his hand upon Jerusalem to destroy it, the LORD repented him of the evil, and said to the angel that destroyed the people, It is enough: stay now thine hand. And the angel of the LORD was by the threshingplace of Araunah the Jebusite.

24:17    大衛看見滅民的天使，就禱告耶和華說，我犯了罪，行了惡。但這群羊作了什麼呢。願你的手攻擊我和我的父家。
And David spake unto the LORD when he saw the angel that smote the people, and said, Lo, I have sinned, and I have done wickedly: but these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray thee, be against me, and against my father's house.

24:18    當日，迦得來見大衛，對他說，你上去，在耶布斯人亞勞拿的禾場上為耶和華築一座壇。
And Gad came that day to David, and said unto him, Go up, rear an altar unto the LORD in the threshingfloor of Araunah the Jebusite.

24:19    大衛就照著迦得奉耶和華名所說的話上去了。
And David, according to the saying of Gad, went up as the LORD commanded.

24:20    亞勞拿觀看，見王和他臣僕前來，就迎接出去，臉伏於地，向王下拜，
And Araunah looked, and saw the king and his servants coming on toward him: and Araunah went out, and bowed himself before the king on his face upon the ground.

24:21    說，我主我王為何來到僕人這裡呢。大衛說，我要買你這禾場，為耶和華築一座壇，使民間的瘟疫止住。
And Araunah said, Wherefore is my lord the king come to his servant? And David said, To buy the threshingfloor of thee, to build an altar unto the LORD, that the plague may be stayed from the people.

24:22    亞勞拿對大衛說，我主我王，你喜悅用什麼，就拿去獻祭。看哪，這裡有牛可以作燔祭，有打糧的器具和套牛的軛可以當柴燒。
And Araunah said unto David, Let my lord the king take and offer up what seemeth good unto him: behold, here be oxen for burnt sacrifice, and threshing instruments and other instruments of the oxen for wood.

24:23    王阿，這一切，我亞勞拿都奉給你。又對王說，願耶和華你的神悅納你。
All these things did Araunah, as a king, give unto the king. And Araunah said unto the king, The LORD thy God accept thee.

24:24    王對亞勞拿說，不然。我必要按著價值向你買。我不肯用白得之物作燔祭獻給耶和華我的神。大衛就用五十舍客勒銀子買了那禾場與牛。
And the king said unto Araunah, Nay; but I will surely buy it of thee at a price: neither will I offer burnt offerings unto the LORD my God of that which doth cost me nothing. So David bought the threshingfloor and the oxen for fifty shekels of silver.

24:25    大衛在那裡為耶和華築了一座壇，獻燔祭和平安祭。如此，耶和華垂聽國民所求的，瘟疫在以色列人中就止住了。
And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings. So the LORD was intreated for the land, and the plague was stayed from Israel.


