

舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


1:1    大衛王年紀老邁，雖用被遮蓋，仍不覺暖。
Now king David was old and stricken in years; and they covered him with clothes, but he gat no heat.

1:2    所以臣僕對他說，不如為我主我王尋梢一個處女，使她伺候王，奉養王，睡在王的懷中，好叫我主我王得暖。
Wherefore his servants said unto him, Let there be sought for my lord the king a young virgin: and let her stand before the king, and let her cherish him, and let her lie in thy bosom, that my lord the king may get heat.

1:3    於是在以色列全境尋梢美貌的童女，尋得書唸的一個童女亞比煞，就帶到王那裡。
So they sought for a fair damsel throughout all the coasts of Israel, and found Abishag a Shunammite, and brought her to the king.

1:4    這童女極其美貌，她奉養王，伺候王，王卻沒有與她親近。
And the damsel was very fair, and cherished the king, and ministered to him: but the king knew her not.

1:5    那時，哈及的兒子亞多尼雅自尊，說，我必作王，就為自己預備車輛，馬兵，又派五十人在他前頭奔走。
Then Adonijah the son of Haggith exalted himself, saying, I will be king: and he prepared him chariots and horsemen, and fifty men to run before him.

1:6    他父親素來沒有使他憂悶，說，你是作什麼呢。他甚俊美，生在押沙龍之後。
And his father had not displeased him at any time in saying, Why hast thou done so? and he also was a very goodly man; and his mother bare him after Absalom.

1:7    亞多尼雅與洗魯雅的兒子約押，和祭司亞比亞他商議。二人就順從他，幫助他。
And he conferred with Joab the son of Zeruiah, and with Abiathar the priest: and they following Adonijah helped him.

1:8    但祭司撒督，耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，先知拿單，示每，利以，並大衛的勇士都不順從亞多尼雅。
But Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and Nathan the prophet, and Shimei, and Rei, and the mighty men which belonged to David, were not with Adonijah.

1:9    一日，亞多尼雅在隱羅結旁，瑣希列磐石那裡宰了牛羊，肥犢，請他的諸弟兄，就是王的眾子，並所有作王臣僕的猶大人。
And Adonijah slew sheep and oxen and fat cattle by the stone of Zoheleth, which is by Enrogel, and called all his brethren the king's sons, and all the men of Judah the king's servants:

1:10    惟獨先知拿單和比拿雅並勇士，與他的兄弟所羅門，他都沒有請。
But Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah, and the mighty men, and Solomon his brother, he called not.

1:11    拿單對所羅門的母親拔示巴說，哈及的兒子亞多尼雅作王了，你沒有聽見嗎。我們的主大衛卻不知道。
Wherefore Nathan spake unto Bathsheba the mother of Solomon, saying, Hast thou not heard that Adonijah the son of Haggith doth reign, and David our lord knoweth it not?

1:12    現在我可以給你出個主意，好保全你和你兒子所羅門的性命。
Now therefore come, let me, I pray thee, give thee counsel, that thou mayest save thine own life, and the life of thy son Solomon.

1:13    你進去見大衛王，對他說，我主我王阿，你不曾向婢女起誓說，你兒子所羅門必接續我作王，坐在我的位上嗎。現在亞多尼雅怎嗎作了王呢。
Go and get thee in unto king David, and say unto him, Didst not thou, my lord, O king, swear unto thine handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne? why then doth Adonijah reign?

1:14    你還與王說話的時候，我也隨後進去，證實你的話。
Behold, while thou yet talkest there with the king, I also will come in after thee, and confirm thy words.

1:15    拔示巴進入內室見王，王甚老邁，書唸的童女亞比煞正伺候王。
And Bathsheba went in unto the king into the chamber: and the king was very old; and Abishag the Shunammite ministered unto the king.

1:16    拔示巴向王屈身下拜。王說，你要什麼。
And Bathsheba bowed, and did obeisance unto the king. And the king said, What wouldest thou?

1:17    她說，我主阿，你曾向婢女指著耶和華你的神起誓說，你兒子所羅門必接續我作王，坐在我的位上。
And she said unto him, My lord, thou swarest by the LORD thy God unto thine handmaid, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne.

1:18    現在亞多尼雅作王了，我主我王卻不知道。
And now, behold, Adonijah reigneth; and now, my lord the king, thou knowest it not:

1:19    他宰了許多牛羊，肥犢，請了王的眾子和祭司亞比亞他，並元帥約押。惟獨王的僕人所羅門，他沒有請。
And he hath slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the sons of the king, and Abiathar the priest, and Joab the captain of the host: but Solomon thy servant hath he not called.

1:20    我主我王阿，以色列眾人的眼目都仰望你，等你曉諭他們，在我主我王之後誰坐你的位。
And thou, my lord, O king, the eyes of all Israel are upon thee, that thou shouldest tell them who shall sit on the throne of my lord the king after him.

1:21    若不然，到我主我王與列祖同睡以後，我和我兒子所羅門必算為罪人了。
Otherwise it shall come to pass, when my lord the king shall sleep with his fathers, that I and my son Solomon shall be counted offenders.

1:22    拔示巴還與王說話的時候，先知拿單也進來了。
And, lo, while she yet talked with the king, Nathan the prophet also came in.

1:23    有人奏告王說，先知拿單來了。拿單進到王前，臉伏於地。
And they told the king, saying, Behold Nathan the prophet. And when he was come in before the king, he bowed himself before the king with his face to the ground.

1:24    拿單說，我主我王果然應許亞多尼雅說你必接續我作王，坐在我的位上嗎。
And Nathan said, My lord, O king, hast thou said, Adonijah shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne?

1:25    他今日下去，宰了許多牛羊，肥犢，請了王的眾子和軍長，並祭司亞比亞他。他們正在亞多尼雅面前吃喝，說，願亞多尼雅王萬歲。
For he is gone down this day, and hath slain oxen and fat cattle and sheep in abundance, and hath called all the king's sons, and the captains of the host, and Abiathar the priest; and, behold, they eat and drink before him, and say, God save king Adonijah.

1:26    惟獨我，就是你的僕人和祭司撒督，耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，並王的僕人所羅門，他都沒有請。
But me, even me thy servant, and Zadok the priest, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and thy servant Solomon, hath he not called.

1:27    這事果然出乎我主我王嗎。王卻沒有告訴僕人們，在我主我王之後誰坐你的位。
Is this thing done by my lord the king, and thou hast not shewed it unto thy servant, who should sit on the throne of my lord the king after him?

1:28    大衛王吩咐說，叫拔示巴來。拔示巴就進來，站在王面前。
Then king David answered and said, Call me Bathsheba. And she came into the king's presence, and stood before the king.

1:29    王起誓說，我指著救我性命脫離一切苦難，永生的耶和華起誓。
And the king sware, and said, As the LORD liveth, that hath redeemed my soul out of all distress,



1:30    我既然指著耶和華以色列的神向你起誓說，你兒子所羅門必接續我作王，坐在我的位上。我今日就必照這話而行。
Even as I sware unto thee by the LORD God of Israel, saying, Assuredly Solomon thy son shall reign after me, and he shall sit upon my throne in my stead; even so will I certainly do this day.



1:31    於是，拔示巴臉伏於地，向王下拜，說，願我主大衛王萬歲。
Then Bathsheba bowed with her face to the earth, and did reverence to the king, and said, Let my lord king David live for ever.

1:32    大衛王又吩咐說，將祭司撒督，先知拿單，耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅召來。他們就都來到王面前。
And king David said, Call me Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada. And they came before the king.

1:33    王對他們說，要帶領你們主的僕人，使我兒子所羅門騎我的騾子，送他下到基訓。
The king also said unto them, Take with you the servants of your lord, and cause Solomon my son to ride upon mine own mule, and bring him down to Gihon:

1:34    在那裡，祭司撒督和先知拿單要膏他作以色列的王。你們也要吹角，說，願所羅門王萬歲。
And let Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet anoint him there king over Israel: and blow ye with the trumpet, and say, God save king Solomon.

1:35    然後要跟隨他上來，使他坐在我的位上，接續我作王。我已立他作以色列和猶大的君。
Then ye shall come up after him, that he may come and sit upon my throne; for he shall be king in my stead: and I have appointed him to be ruler over Israel and over Judah.

1:36    耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅對王說，阿們。願耶和華我主我王的神也這樣命定。
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada answered the king, and said, Amen: the LORD God of my lord the king say so too.

1:37    耶和華怎樣與我主我王同在，願他照樣與所羅門同在，使他的國位比我主大衛王的國位更大。
As the LORD hath been with my lord the king, even so be he with Solomon, and make his throne greater than the throne of my lord king David.

1:38    於是，祭司撒督，先知拿單，耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，和基利提人，比利提人都下去使所羅門騎大衛王的騾子，將他送到基訓。
So Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, went down, and caused Solomon to ride upon king David's mule, and brought him to Gihon.

1:39    祭司撒督就從帳幕中取了盛膏油的角來，用膏膏所羅門。人就吹角，眾民都說，願所羅門王萬歲。
And Zadok the priest took an horn of oil out of the tabernacle, and anointed Solomon. And they blew the trumpet; and all the people said, God save king Solomon.

1:40    眾民跟隨他上來，且吹笛，大大歡呼，聲音震地。
And all the people came up after him, and the people piped with pipes, and rejoiced with great joy, so that the earth rent with the sound of them.

1:41    亞多尼雅和所請的眾客筵宴方畢，聽見這聲音。約押聽見角聲就說，城中為何有這響聲呢。
And Adonijah and all the guests that were with him heard it as they had made an end of eating. And when Joab heard the sound of the trumpet, he said, Wherefore is this noise of the city being in an uproar?

1:42    他正說話的時候，祭司亞比亞他的兒子約拿單來了。亞多尼雅對他說，進來吧。你是個忠義的人，必是報好資訊。
And while he yet spake, behold, Jonathan the son of Abiathar the priest came; and Adonijah said unto him, Come in; for thou art a valiant man, and bringest good tidings.

1:43    約拿單對亞多尼雅說，我們的主大衛王誠然立所羅門為王了。
And Jonathan answered and said to Adonijah, Verily our lord king David hath made Solomon king.

1:44    王差遣祭司撒督，先知拿單，耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，和基利提人，比利提人都去使所羅門騎王的騾子。
And the king hath sent with him Zadok the priest, and Nathan the prophet, and Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and the Cherethites, and the Pelethites, and they have caused him to ride upon the king's mule:

1:45    祭司撒督和先知拿單在基訓已經膏他作王。眾人都從那裡歡呼著上來，聲音使城震動，這就是你們所聽見的聲音。
And Zadok the priest and Nathan the prophet have anointed him king in Gihon: and they are come up from thence rejoicing, so that the city rang again. This is the noise that ye have heard.

1:46    並且所羅門登了國位。
And also Solomon sitteth on the throne of the kingdom.

1:47    王的臣僕也來為我們的主大衛王祝福，說，願王的神使所羅門的名比王的名更尊榮。使他的國位比王的國位更大。王就在床上屈身下拜。
And moreover the king's servants came to bless our lord king David, saying, God make the name of Solomon better than thy name, and make his throne greater than thy throne. And the king bowed himself upon the bed.

1:48    王又說，耶和華以色列的神是應當稱頌的。因他賜我一人今日坐在我的位上，我也親眼看見了。
And also thus said the king, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, which hath given one to sit on my throne this day, mine eyes even seeing it.

1:49    亞多尼雅的眾客聽見這話就都驚懼，起來四散。
And all the guests that were with Adonijah were afraid, and rose up, and went every man his way.

1:50    亞多尼雅懼怕所羅門，就起來，去抓住祭壇的角。
And Adonijah feared because of Solomon, and arose, and went, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.

1:51    有人告訴所羅門說，亞多尼雅懼怕所羅門王，現在抓住祭壇的角，說，願所羅門王今日向我起誓，必不用刀殺僕人。
And it was told Solomon, saying, Behold, Adonijah feareth king Solomon: for, lo, he hath caught hold on the horns of the altar, saying, Let king Solomon swear unto me today that he will not slay his servant with the sword.

1:52    所羅門說，他若作忠義的人，連一根頭髮也不致落在地上。他若行惡，必要死亡。
And Solomon said, If he will shew himself a worthy man, there shall not an hair of him fall to the earth: but if wickedness shall be found in him, he shall die.

1:53    於是所羅門王差遣人，使亞多尼雅從壇上下來，他就來，向所羅門王下拜。所羅門對他說，你回家去吧。
So king Solomon sent, and they brought him down from the altar. And he came and bowed himself to king Solomon: and Solomon said unto him, Go to thine house.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


2:1    大衛的死期臨近了，就囑吩他兒子所羅門說，
Now the days of David drew nigh that he should die; and he charged Solomon his son, saying,

2:2    我現在要走世人必走的路。所以，你當剛強，作大丈夫，
I go the way of all the earth: be thou strong therefore, and shew thyself a man;

2:3    遵守耶和華你神所吩咐的，照著摩西律法上所寫的行主的道，謹守他的律例，誡命，典章，法度。這樣，你無論作什麼事，不拘往何處去，盡都亨通。
And keep the charge of the LORD thy God, to walk in his ways, to keep his statutes, and his commandments, and his judgments, and his testimonies, as it is written in the law of Moses, that thou mayest prosper in all that thou doest, and whithersoever thou turnest thyself:

2:4    耶和華必成就向我所應許的話說，你的子孫若謹慎自己的行為，盡心盡意誠誠實實地行在我面前，就不斷人坐以色列的國位。
That the LORD may continue his word which he spake concerning me, saying, If thy children take heed to their way, to walk before me in truth with all their heart and with all their soul, there shall not fail thee (said he) a man on the throne of Israel.

2:5    你知道洗魯雅的兒子約押向我所行的，就是殺了以色列的兩個元帥，尼珥的兒子押尼珥和益帖的兒子亞瑪撒。他在太平之時流這二人的血，如在爭戰之時一樣，將這血染了腰間束的帶和腳上穿的鞋。
Moreover thou knowest also what Joab the son of Zeruiah did to me, and what he did to the two captains of the hosts of Israel, unto Abner the son of Ner, and unto Amasa the son of Jether, whom he slew, and shed the blood of war in peace, and put the blood of war upon his girdle that was about his loins, and in his shoes that were on his feet.

2:6    所以你要照你的智慧行，不容他白頭安然下陰間。
Do therefore according to thy wisdom, and let not his hoar head go down to the grave in peace.

2:7    你當恩待基列人巴西萊的眾子，使他們常與你同席吃飯。因為我躲避你哥哥押沙龍的時候，他們拿食物來迎接我。
But shew kindness unto the sons of Barzillai the Gileadite, and let them be of those that eat at thy table: for so they came to me when I fled because of Absalom thy brother.

2:8    在你這裡有巴戶琳的便雅憫人，基拉的兒子示每。我往瑪哈念去的那日，他用狠毒的言語咒罵我，後來卻下約旦河迎接我，我就指著耶和華向他起誓說，我必不用刀殺你。
And, behold, thou hast with thee Shimei the son of Gera, a Benjamite of Bahurim, which cursed me with a grievous curse in the day when I went to Mahanaim: but he came down to meet me at Jordan, and I sware to him by the LORD, saying, I will not put thee to death with the sword.

2:9    現在你不要以他為無罪。你是聰明人，必知道怎樣待他，使他白頭見殺，流血下到陰間。
Now therefore hold him not guiltless: for thou art a wise man, and knowest what thou oughtest to do unto him; but his hoar head bring thou down to the grave with blood.

2:10    大衛與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城。
So David slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David.

2:11    大衛作以色列王四十年，在希伯侖作王七年，在耶路撒冷作王三十三年。
And the days that David reigned over Israel were forty years: seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in Jerusalem.

2:12    所羅門坐他父親大衛的位，他的國甚是堅固。
Then sat Solomon upon the throne of David his father; and his kingdom was established greatly.

2:13    哈及的兒子亞多尼雅去見所羅門的母親拔示巴，拔示巴問他說，你來是為平安嗎。回答說，是為平安。
And Adonijah the son of Haggith came to Bathsheba the mother of Solomon. And she said, Comest thou peaceably? And he said, Peaceably.

2:14    又說，我有話對你說。拔示巴說，你說吧。
He said moreover, I have somewhat to say unto thee. And she said, Say on.

2:15    亞多尼雅說，你知道國原是歸我的，以色列眾人也都仰望我作王，不料，國反歸了我兄弟，因他得國是出乎耶和華。
And he said, Thou knowest that the kingdom was mine, and that all Israel set their faces on me, that I should reign: howbeit the kingdom is turned about, and is become my brother's: for it was his from the LORD.

2:16    現在我有一件事求你，望你不要推辭。拔示巴說，你說吧。
And now I ask one petition of thee, deny me not. And she said unto him, Say on.

2:17    他說，求你請所羅門王將書唸的女子亞比煞賜我為妻，因他必不推辭你。
And he said, Speak, I pray thee, unto Solomon the king, (for he will not say thee nay,) that he give me Abishag the Shunammite to wife.

2:18    拔示巴說，好，我必為你對王提說。
And Bathsheba said, Well; I will speak for thee unto the king.

2:19    於是，拔示巴去見所羅門王，要為亞多尼雅提說。王起來迎接，向她下拜，就坐在位上，吩咐人為王母設一座位，她便坐在王的右邊。
Bathsheba therefore went unto king Solomon, to speak unto him for Adonijah. And the king rose up to meet her, and bowed himself unto her, and sat down on his throne, and caused a seat to be set for the king's mother; and she sat on his right hand.

2:20    拔示巴說，我有一件小事求你，望你不要推辭。王說，請母親說，我必不推辭。
Then she said, I desire one small petition of thee; I pray thee, say me not nay. And the king said unto her, Ask on, my mother: for I will not say thee nay.

2:21    拔示巴說，求你將書唸的女子亞比煞賜給你哥哥亞多尼雅為妻。
And she said, Let Abishag the Shunammite be given to Adonijah thy brother to wife.

2:22    所羅門王對他母親說，為何單替他求書唸的女子亞比煞呢。也可以為他求國吧。他是我的哥哥，他有祭司亞比亞他和洗魯雅的兒子約押為輔佐。
And king Solomon answered and said unto his mother, And why dost thou ask Abishag the Shunammite for Adonijah? ask for him the kingdom also; for he is mine elder brother; even for him, and for Abiathar the priest, and for Joab the son of Zeruiah.

2:23    所羅門王就指著耶和華起誓說，亞多尼雅這話是自己送命，不然，願神重重地降罰與我。
Then king Solomon sware by the LORD, saying, God do so to me, and more also, if Adonijah have not spoken this word against his own life.

2:24    耶和華堅立我，使我坐在父親大衛的位上，照著所應許的話為我建立家室。現在我指著永生的耶和華起誓，亞多尼雅今日必被治死。
Now therefore, as the LORD liveth, which hath established me, and set me on the throne of David my father, and who hath made me an house, as he promised, Adonijah shall be put to death this day.

2:25    於是所羅門王差遣耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，將亞多尼雅殺死。
And king Solomon sent by the hand of Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; and he fell upon him that he died.

2:26    王對祭司亞比亞他說，你回亞拿突歸自己的田地去吧。你本是該死的，但因你在我父親大衛面前抬過主耶和華的約櫃，又與我父親同受一切苦難，所以我今日不將你殺死。
And unto Abiathar the priest said the king, Get thee to Anathoth, unto thine own fields; for thou art worthy of death: but I will not at this time put thee to death, because thou barest the ark of the LORD God before David my father, and because thou hast been afflicted in all wherein my father was afflicted.

2:27    所羅門就革除亞比亞他，不許他作耶和華的祭司。這樣，便應驗耶和華在示羅論以利家所說的話。
So Solomon thrust out Abiathar from being priest unto the LORD; that he might fulfil the word of the LORD, which he spake concerning the house of Eli in Shiloh.

2:28    約押雖然沒有歸從押沙龍，卻歸從了亞多尼雅。他聽見這風聲，就逃到耶和華的帳幕，抓住祭壇的角。
Then tidings came to Joab: for Joab had turned after Adonijah, though he turned not after Absalom. And Joab fled unto the tabernacle of the LORD, and caught hold on the horns of the altar.

2:29    有人告訴所羅門王說，約押逃到耶和華的帳幕，現今在祭壇的旁邊。所羅門就差遣耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，說，你去將他殺死。
And it was told king Solomon that Joab was fled unto the tabernacle of the LORD; and, behold, he is by the altar. Then Solomon sent Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, saying, Go, fall upon him.

2:30    比拿雅來到耶和華的帳幕，對約押說，王吩咐說，你出來吧。他說，我不出去，我要死在這裡。比拿雅就去回覆王，說約押如此如此回答我。
And Benaiah came to the tabernacle of the LORD, and said unto him, Thus saith the king, Come forth. And he said, Nay; but I will die here. And Benaiah brought the king word again, saying, Thus said Joab, and thus he answered me.

2:31    王說，你可以照著他的話行，殺死他，將他葬埋，好叫約押流無辜人血的罪不歸我和我的父家了。
And the king said unto him, Do as he hath said, and fall upon him, and bury him; that thou mayest take away the innocent blood, which Joab shed, from me, and from the house of my father.

2:32    耶和華必使約押流人血的罪歸到他自己的頭上。因為他用刀殺了兩個比他又義又好的人，就是以色列元帥尼珥的兒子押尼珥和猶大元帥益帖的兒子亞瑪撒，我父親大衛卻不知道。
And the LORD shall return his blood upon his own head, who fell upon two men more righteous and better than he, and slew them with the sword, my father David not knowing thereof, to wit, Abner the son of Ner, captain of the host of Israel, and Amasa the son of Jether, captain of the host of Judah.

2:33    故此，流這二人血的罪必歸到約押和他後裔的頭上，直到永遠。惟有大衛和他的後裔，並他的家與國，必從耶和華那裡得平安，直到永遠。
Their blood shall therefore return upon the head of Joab, and upon the head of his seed for ever: but upon David, and upon his seed, and upon his house, and upon his throne, shall there be peace for ever from the LORD.

2:34    於是耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅上去，將約押殺死，葬在曠野約押自己的墳墓（原文作房屋）裡。
So Benaiah the son of Jehoiada went up, and fell upon him, and slew him: and he was buried in his own house in the wilderness.

2:35    王就立耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅作元帥，代替約押，又使祭司撒督代替亞比亞他。
And the king put Benaiah the son of Jehoiada in his room over the host: and Zadok the priest did the king put in the room of Abiathar.

2:36    王差遣人將示每召來，對他說，你要在耶路撒冷建造房屋居住，不可出來往別處去。
And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said unto him, Build thee an house in Jerusalem, and dwell there, and go not forth thence any whither.

2:37    你當確實地知道，你何日出來過汲淪溪，何日必死。你的罪（原文作血）必歸到自己的頭上。
For it shall be, that on the day thou goest out, and passest over the brook Kidron, thou shalt know for certain that thou shalt surely die: thy blood shall be upon thine own head.

2:38    示每對王說，這話甚好。我主我王怎樣說，僕人必怎樣行。於是示每多日住在耶路撒冷。
And Shimei said unto the king, The saying is good: as my lord the king hath said, so will thy servant do. And Shimei dwelt in Jerusalem many days.

2:39    過了三年，示每的兩個僕人逃到迦特王瑪迦的兒子亞吉那裡去。有人告訴示每說，你的僕人在迦特。
And it came to pass at the end of three years, that two of the servants of Shimei ran away unto Achish son of Maachah king of Gath. And they told Shimei, saying, Behold, thy servants be in Gath.

2:40    示每起來，備上驢，往迦特到亞吉那裡去找他的僕人，就從迦特帶他僕人回來。
And Shimei arose, and saddled his ass, and went to Gath to Achish to seek his servants: and Shimei went, and brought his servants from Gath.

2:41    有人告訴所羅門說，示每出耶路撒冷往迦特去，回來了。
And it was told Solomon that Shimei had gone from Jerusalem to Gath, and was come again.

2:42    王就差遣人將示每召了來，對他說，我豈不是叫你指著耶和華起誓，並且警戒你說你當確實地知道，你哪日出來往別處去，那日必死嗎。你也對我說，這話甚好，我必聽從。
And the king sent and called for Shimei, and said unto him, Did I not make thee to swear by the LORD, and protested unto thee, saying, Know for a certain, on the day thou goest out, and walkest abroad any whither, that thou shalt surely die? and thou saidst unto me, The word that I have heard is good.

2:43    現在你為何不遵守你指著耶和華起的誓和我所吩咐你的命令呢。
Why then hast thou not kept the oath of the LORD, and the commandment that I have charged thee with?

2:44    王又對示每說，你向我父親大衛所行的一切惡事，你自己心裡也知道，所以耶和華必使你的罪惡歸到自己的頭上。
The king said moreover to Shimei, Thou knowest all the wickedness which thine heart is privy to, that thou didst to David my father: therefore the LORD shall return thy wickedness upon thine own head;

2:45    惟有所羅門王必得福，並且大衛的國位必在耶和華面前堅定，直到永遠。
And king Solomon shall be blessed, and the throne of David shall be established before the LORD for ever.

2:46    於是王吩咐耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅，他就去殺死示每。這樣，便堅定了所羅門的國位。
So the king commanded Benaiah the son of Jehoiada; which went out, and fell upon him, that he died. And the kingdom was established in the hand of Solomon.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


3:1    所羅門與埃及王法老結親，娶了法老的女兒為妻，接她進入大衛城，直等到造完了自己的宮和耶和華的殿，並耶路撒冷周圍的城牆。
And Solomon made affinity with Pharaoh king of Egypt, and took Pharaoh's daughter, and brought her into the city of David, until he had made an end of building his own house, and the house of the LORD, and the wall of Jerusalem round about.

3:2    當那些日子，百姓仍在邱壇獻祭，因為還沒有為耶和華的名建殿。
Only the people sacrificed in high places, because there was no house built unto the name of the LORD, until those days.

3:3    所羅門愛耶和華，遵行他父親大衛的律例，只是還在邱壇獻祭燒香。
And Solomon loved the LORD, walking in the statutes of David his father: only he sacrificed and burnt incense in high places.

3:4    所羅門王上基遍去獻祭。因為在那裡有極大（或作出名）的邱壇，他在那壇上獻一千犧牲作燔祭。
And the king went to Gibeon to sacrifice there; for that was the great high place: a thousand burnt offerings did Solomon offer upon that altar.

3:5    在基遍，夜間夢中，耶和華向所羅門顯現，對他說，你願我賜你什麼。你可以求。
In Gibeon the LORD appeared to Solomon in a dream by night: and God said, Ask what I shall give thee.

3:6    所羅門說，你僕人我父親大衛用誠實，公義，正直的心行在你面前，你就向他大施恩典，又為他存留大恩，賜他一個兒子坐在他的位上，正如今日一樣。
And Solomon said, Thou hast shewed unto thy servant David my father great mercy, according as he walked before thee in truth, and in righteousness, and in uprightness of heart with thee; and thou hast kept for him this great kindness, that thou hast given him a son to sit on his throne, as it is this day.

3:7    耶和華我的神阿，如今你使僕人接續我父親大衛作王。但我是幼童，不知道應當怎樣出入。
And now, O LORD my God, thou hast made thy servant king instead of David my father: and I am but a little child: I know not how to go out or come in.

3:8    僕人住在你所揀選的民中，這民多得不可勝數。
And thy servant is in the midst of thy people which thou hast chosen, a great people, that cannot be numbered nor counted for multitude.

3:9    所以求你賜我智慧，可以判斷你的民，能辨別是非。不然，誰能判斷這眾多的民呢。
Give therefore thy servant an understanding heart to judge thy people, that I may discern between good and bad: for who is able to judge this thy so great a people?

3:10    所羅門因為求這事，就蒙主喜悅。
And the speech pleased the LORD, that Solomon had asked this thing.

3:11    神對他說，你既然求這事，不為自己求壽，求富，也不求滅絕你仇敵的性命，單求智慧可以聽訟，
And God said unto him, Because thou hast asked this thing, and hast not asked for thyself long life; neither hast asked riches for thyself, nor hast asked the life of thine enemies; but hast asked for thyself understanding to discern judgment;

3:12    我就應允你所求的，賜你聰明智慧，甚至在你以前沒有像你的，在你以後也沒有像你的。
Behold, I have done according to thy words: lo, I have given thee a wise and an understanding heart; so that there was none like thee before thee, neither after thee shall any arise like unto thee.

3:13    你所沒有求的，我也賜給你，就是富足，尊榮，使你在世的日子，列王中沒有一個能比你的。
And I have also given thee that which thou hast not asked, both riches, and honour: so that there shall not be any among the kings like unto thee all thy days.

3:14    你若效法你父親大衛，遵行我的道，謹守我的律例，誡命，我必使你長壽。
And if thou wilt walk in my ways, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as thy father David did walk, then I will lengthen thy days.

3:15    所羅門醒了，不料是個夢。他就回到耶路撒冷，站在耶和華的約櫃前，獻燔祭和平安祭，又為他眾臣僕設擺筵席。
And Solomon awoke; and, behold, it was a dream. And he came to Jerusalem, and stood before the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and offered up burnt offerings, and offered peace offerings, and made a feast to all his servants.

3:16    一日，有兩個妓女來，站在王面前。
Then came there two women, that were harlots, unto the king, and stood before him.

3:17    一個說，我主阿，我和這婦人同住一房。她在房中的時候，我生了一個男孩。
And the one woman said, O my lord, I and this woman dwell in one house; and I was delivered of a child with her in the house.

3:18    我生孩子後第三日，這婦人也生了孩子。我們是同住的，除了我們二人之外，房中再沒有別人。
And it came to pass the third day after that I was delivered, that this woman was delivered also: and we were together; there was no stranger with us in the house, save we two in the house.

3:19    夜間，這婦人睡著的時候，壓死了她的孩子。
And this woman's child died in the night; because she overlaid it.

3:20    她半夜起來，趁我睡著，從我旁邊把我的孩子抱去，放在她懷裡，將她的死孩子放在我懷裡。
And she arose at midnight, and took my son from beside me, while thine handmaid slept, and laid it in her bosom, and laid her dead child in my bosom.

3:21    天要亮的時候，我起來要給我的孩子吃奶，不料，孩子死了。及至天亮，我細細地察看，不是我所生的孩子。
And when I rose in the morning to give my child suck, behold, it was dead: but when I had considered it in the morning, behold, it was not my son, which I did bear.

3:22    那婦人說，不然，活孩子是我的，死孩子是你的。這婦人說，不然，死孩子是你的，活孩子是我的。她們在王面前如此爭論。
And the other woman said, Nay; but the living is my son, and the dead is thy son. And this said, No; but the dead is thy son, and the living is my son. Thus they spake before the king.

3:23    王說，這婦人說活孩子是我的，死孩子是你的，那婦人說不然，死孩子是你的，活孩子是我的，
Then said the king, The one saith, This is my son that liveth, and thy son is the dead: and the other saith, Nay; but thy son is the dead, and my son is the living.

3:24    就吩咐說，拿刀來。人就拿刀來。
And the king said, Bring me a sword. And they brought a sword before the king.

3:25    王說，將活孩子劈成兩半，一半給那婦人，一半給這婦人。
And the king said, Divide the living child in two, and give half to the one, and half to the other.

3:26    活孩子的母親為自己的孩子心裡急痛，就說，求我主將活孩子給那婦人吧，萬不可殺他。那婦人說，這孩子也不歸我，也不歸你，把他劈了吧。
Then spake the woman whose the living child was unto the king, for her bowels yearned upon her son, and she said, O my lord, give her the living child, and in no wise slay it. But the other said, Let it be neither mine nor thine, but divide it.

3:27    王說，將活孩子給這婦人，萬不可殺他。這婦人實在是他的母親。
Then the king answered and said, Give her the living child, and in no wise slay it: she is the mother thereof.

3:28    以色列眾人聽見王這樣判斷，就都敬畏他。因為見他心裡有神的智慧，能以斷案。
And all Israel heard of the judgment which the king had judged; and they feared the king: for they saw that the wisdom of God was in him, to do judgment.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


4:1    所羅門作以色列眾人的王。
So king Solomon was king over all Israel.

4:2    他的臣子記在下面，撒督的兒子亞撒利雅作祭司，
And these were the princes which he had; Azariah the son of Zadok the priest,

4:3    示沙的兩個兒子以利何烈，亞希亞作書記，亞希律的兒子約沙法作史官，
Elihoreph and Ahiah, the sons of Shisha, scribes; Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, the recorder.

4:4    耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅作元帥，撒督和亞比亞他作祭司長，
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the host: and Zadok and Abiathar were the priests:

4:5    拿單的兒子亞撒利雅作眾吏長，王的朋友拿單的兒子撒佈得作領袖，
And Azariah the son of Nathan was over the officers: and Zabud the son of Nathan was principal officer, and the king's friend:

4:6    亞希煞作家宰，亞比大的兒子亞多尼蘭掌管服苦的人。
And Ahishar was over the household: and Adoniram the son of Abda was over the tribute.

4:7    所羅門在以色列全地立了十二個官吏，使他們供給王和王家的食物，每年各人供給一月。
And Solomon had twelve officers over all Israel, which provided victuals for the king and his household: each man his month in a year made provision.

4:8    他們的名字記在下面，在以法蓮山地有便戶珥。
And these are their names: The son of Hur, in mount Ephraim:

4:9    在瑪迦斯，沙賓，伯示麥，以倫伯哈南有便底甲。
The son of Dekar, in Makaz, and in Shaalbim, and Bethshemesh, and Elonbethhanan:

4:10    在亞魯
The son of Hesed, in Aruboth; to him pertained Sochoh, and all the land of Hepher:

4:11    在多珥山岡（或作全境）有便亞比拿達，他娶了所羅門的女兒她法為妻。
The son of Abinadab, in all the region of Dor; which had Taphath the daughter of Solomon to wife:

4:12    在他納和米吉多，並靠近撒拉他拿，耶斯列下邊的伯善全地，從伯善到亞伯米何拉直到約念之外，有亞希律的兒子巴拿。
Baana the son of Ahilud; to him pertained Taanach and Megiddo, and all Bethshean, which is by Zartanah beneath Jezreel, from Bethshean to Abelmeholah, even unto the place that is beyond Jokneam:

4:13    在基列的拉末有便基別，他管理在基列的瑪拿西子孫睚珥的城邑，巴珊的亞珥歌伯地的大城六十座，都有城牆和銅閂。
The son of Geber, in Ramothgilead; to him pertained the towns of Jair the son of Manasseh, which are in Gilead; to him also pertained the region of Argob, which is in Bashan, threescore great cities with walls and brasen bars:

4:14    在瑪哈念有易多的兒子亞希拿達。
Ahinadab the son of Iddo had Mahanaim:

4:15    在拿弗他利有亞希瑪斯，他也娶了所羅門的一個女兒巴實抹為妻。
Ahimaaz was in Naphtali; he also took Basmath the daughter of Solomon to wife:

4:16    在亞設和亞祿有戶篩的兒子巴拿。
Baanah the son of Hushai was in Asher and in Aloth:

4:17    在以薩迦有帕路亞的兒子約沙法。
Jehoshaphat the son of Paruah, in Issachar:

4:18    在便雅憫有以拉的兒子示每。
Shimei the son of Elah, in Benjamin:

4:19    在基列地，就是從前屬亞摩利王西巨集和巴珊王噩之地，有烏利的兒子基別一人管理。
Geber the son of Uri was in the country of Gilead, in the country of Sihon king of the Amorites, and of Og king of Bashan; and he was the only officer which was in the land.

4:20    猶大人和以色列人如同海邊的沙那樣多，都吃喝快樂。
Judah and Israel were many, as the sand which is by the sea in multitude, eating and drinking, and making merry.

4:21    所羅門統管諸國，從大河到非利士地，直到埃及的邊界。所羅門在世的日子，這些國都進貢服事他。
And Solomon reigned over all kingdoms from the river unto the land of the Philistines, and unto the border of Egypt: they brought presents, and served Solomon all the days of his life.

4:22    所羅門每日所用的食物，細面三十歌珥，粗麵六十歌珥，
And Solomon's provision for one day was thirty measures of fine flour, and threescore measures of meal,

4:23    肥牛十隻，草場的牛二十隻，羊一百隻，還有鹿，羚羊，狍子，並肥禽。
Ten fat oxen, and twenty oxen out of the pastures, and an hundred sheep, beside harts, and roebucks, and fallowdeer, and fatted fowl.

4:24    所羅門管理大河西邊的諸王，以及從提弗薩直到迦薩的全地，四境盡都平安。
For he had dominion over all the region on this side the river, from Tiphsah even to Azzah, over all the kings on this side the river: and he had peace on all sides round about him.

4:25    所羅門在世的日子，從但到別是巴的猶大人和以色列人，都在自己的葡萄樹下和無花果樹下安然居住。
And Judah and Israel dwelt safely, every man under his vine and under his fig tree, from Dan even to Beersheba, all the days of Solomon.

4:26    所羅門有套車的馬四萬，還有馬兵一萬二千。
And Solomon had forty thousand stalls of horses for his chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen.

4:27    那十二個官吏各按各月供給所羅門王，並一切與他同席之人的食物，一無所缺。
And those officers provided victual for king Solomon, and for all that came unto king Solomon's table, every man in his month: they lacked nothing.

4:28    眾人各按各分，將養馬與快馬的大麥和乾草送到官吏那裡。
Barley also and straw for the horses and dromedaries brought they unto the place where the officers were, every man according to his charge.

4:29    神賜給所羅門極大的智慧聰明和廣大的心，如同海沙不可測量。
And God gave Solomon wisdom and understanding exceeding much, and largeness of heart, even as the sand that is on the sea shore.

4:30    所羅門的智慧超過東方人和埃及人的一切智慧。
And Solomon's wisdom excelled the wisdom of all the children of the east country, and all the wisdom of Egypt.

4:31    他的智慧勝過萬人，勝過以斯拉人以探，並瑪曷的兒子希幔，甲各，達大的智慧。他的名聲傳揚在四圍的列國。
For he was wiser than all men; than Ethan the Ezrahite, and Heman, and Chalcol, and Darda, the sons of Mahol: and his fame was in all nations round about.

4:32    他作箴言三千句，詩歌一千零五首。
And he spake three thousand proverbs: and his songs were a thousand and five.

4:33    他講論草木，自黎巴嫩的香柏樹直到牆上長的牛膝草，又講論飛禽走獸，昆蟲水族。
And he spake of trees, from the cedar tree that is in Lebanon even unto the hyssop that springeth out of the wall: he spake also of beasts, and of fowl, and of creeping things, and of fishes.

4:34    天下列王聽見所羅門的智慧，就都差人來聽他的智慧話。
And there came of all people to hear the wisdom of Solomon, from all kings of the earth, which had heard of his wisdom.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


5:1    推羅王希蘭，平素愛大衛。他聽見以色列人膏所羅門，接續他父親作王，就差遣臣僕來見他。
And Hiram king of Tyre sent his servants unto Solomon; for he had heard that they had anointed him king in the room of his father: for Hiram was ever a lover of David.



5:2    所羅門也差遣人去見希蘭，說，
And Solomon sent to Hiram, saying,

5:3    你知道我父親大衛因四圍的爭戰，不能為耶和華他神的名建殿，直等到耶和華使仇敵都服在他腳下。
Thou knowest how that David my father could not build an house unto the name of the LORD his God for the wars which were about him on every side, until the LORD put them under the soles of his feet.

5:4    現在耶和華我的神使我四圍平安，沒有仇敵，沒有災禍。
But now the LORD my God hath given me rest on every side, so that there is neither adversary nor evil occurrent.

5:5    我定意要為耶和華我神的名建殿，是照耶和華應許我父親大衛的話說，我必使你兒子接續你坐你的位，他必為我的名建殿。
And, behold, I purpose to build an house unto the name of the LORD my God, as the LORD spake unto David my father, saying, Thy son, whom I will set upon thy throne in thy room, he shall build an house unto my name.

5:6    所以求你吩咐你的僕人在黎巴嫩為我砍伐香柏木，我的僕人也必幫助他們，我必照你所定的，給你僕人的工價。因為你知道，在我們中間沒有人像西頓人善於砍伐樹木。”
Now therefore command thou that they hew me cedar trees out of Lebanon; and my servants shall be with thy servants: and unto thee will I give hire for thy servants according to all that thou shalt appoint: for thou knowest that there is not among us any that can skill to hew timber like unto the Sidonians.

5:7    希蘭聽見所羅門的話，就甚喜悅，說，今日應當稱頌耶和華。因他賜給大衛一個有智慧的兒子，治理這眾多的民。
And it came to pass, when Hiram heard the words of Solomon, that he rejoiced greatly, and said, Blessed be the LORD this day, which hath given unto David a wise son over this great people.

5:8    希蘭打發人去見所羅門，說，你差遣人向我所提的那事，我都聽見了。論到香柏木和松木，我必照你的心願而行。
And Hiram sent to Solomon, saying, I have considered the things which thou sentest to me for: and I will do all thy desire concerning timber of cedar, and concerning timber of fir.

5:9    我的僕人必將這木料從黎巴嫩運到海里，紮成筏子，浮海運到你所指定我的地方，在那裡拆開，你就可以收取，你也要成全我的心願，將食物給我的家。
My servants shall bring them down from Lebanon unto the sea: and I will convey them by sea in floats unto the place that thou shalt appoint me, and will cause them to be discharged there, and thou shalt receive them: and thou shalt accomplish my desire, in giving food for my household.

5:10    於是希蘭照著所羅門所要的，給他香柏木和松木。
So Hiram gave Solomon cedar trees and fir trees according to all his desire.

5:11    所羅門給希蘭麥子二萬歌珥，清油二十歌珥，作他家的食物。所羅門每年都是這樣給希蘭。
And Solomon gave Hiram twenty thousand measures of wheat for food to his household, and twenty measures of pure oil: thus gave Solomon to Hiram year by year.

5:12    耶和華照著所應許的賜智慧給所羅門。希蘭與所羅門和好，彼此立約。
And the LORD gave Solomon wisdom, as he promised him: and there was peace between Hiram and Solomon; and they two made a league together.

5:13    所羅門王從以色列人中挑取服苦的人共有三萬，
And king Solomon raised a levy out of all Israel; and the levy was thirty thousand men.

5:14    派他們輪流每月一萬人上黎巴嫩去。一個月在黎巴嫩，兩個月在家裡。亞多尼蘭掌管他們。
And he sent them to Lebanon, ten thousand a month by courses: a month they were in Lebanon, and two months at home: and Adoniram was over the levy.

5:15    所羅門用七萬扛抬的，八萬在山上鑿石頭的。
And Solomon had threescore and ten thousand that bare burdens, and fourscore thousand hewers in the mountains;

5:16    此外，所羅門用三千三百督工的，監管工人。
Beside the chief of Solomon's officers which were over the work, three thousand and three hundred, which ruled over the people that wrought in the work.

5:17    王下令，人就鑿出又大又寶貴的石頭來，用以立殿的根基。
And the king commanded, and they brought great stones, costly stones, and hewed stones, to lay the foundation of the house.

5:18    所羅門的匠人和希蘭的匠人，並迦巴勒人，都將石頭鑿好，預備木料和石頭建殿。
And Solomon's builders and Hiram's builders did hew them, and the stonesquarers: so they prepared timber and stones to build the house.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


6:1    以色列人出埃及地後四百八十年，所羅門作以色列王第四年西弗月，就是二月，開工建造耶和華的殿。
And it came to pass in the four hundred and eightieth year after the children of Israel were come out of the land of Egypt, in the fourth year of Solomon's reign over Israel, in the month Zif, which is the second month, that he began to build the house of the LORD.

6:2    所羅門王為耶和華所建的殿，長六十肘，寬二十肘，高三十肘。
And the house which king Solomon built for the LORD, the length thereof was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits.

6:3    殿前的廊子長二十肘，與殿的寬窄一樣，闊十肘。
And the porch before the temple of the house, twenty cubits was the length thereof, according to the breadth of the house; and ten cubits was the breadth thereof before the house.

6:4    又為殿作了嚴緊的窗櫺。
And for the house he made windows of narrow lights.

6:5    靠著殿牆，圍著外殿內殿，造了三層旁屋。
And against the wall of the house he built chambers round about, against the walls of the house round about, both of the temple and of the oracle: and he made chambers round about:

6:6    下層寬五肘，中層寬六肘，上層寬七肘。殿外旁屋的梁木擱在殿牆坎上，免得插入殿牆。
The nethermost chamber was five cubits broad, and the middle was six cubits broad, and the third was seven cubits broad: for without in the wall of the house he made narrowed rests round about, that the beams should not be fastened in the walls of the house.

6:7    建殿是用山中鑿成的石頭。建殿的時候，槌子，斧子，和別樣鐵器的響聲都沒有聽見。
And the house, when it was in building, was built of stone made ready before it was brought thither: so that there was neither hammer nor axe nor any tool of iron heard in the house, while it was in building.

6:8    在殿右邊當中的旁屋有門，門內有旋螺的樓梯，可以上到第二層，從第二層可以上到第三層。
The door for the middle chamber was in the right side of the house: and they went up with winding stairs into the middle chamber, and out of the middle into the third.

6:9    所羅門建殿，安置香柏木的楝樑，又用香柏木板遮蓋。
So he built the house, and finished it; and covered the house with beams and boards of cedar.

6:10    靠著殿所造的旁屋，每層高五肘，香柏木的楝樑擱在殿牆坎上。
And then he built chambers against all the house, five cubits high: and they rested on the house with timber of cedar.

6:11    耶和華的話臨到所羅門說，
And the word of the LORD came to Solomon, saying,

6:12    論到你所建的這殿，你若遵行我的律例，謹守我的典章，遵從我的一切誡命，我必向你應驗我所應許你父親大衛的話。
Concerning this house which thou art in building, if thou wilt walk in my statutes, and execute my judgments, and keep all my commandments to walk in them; then will I perform my word with thee, which I spake unto David thy father:

6:13    我必住在以色列人中間，並不丟棄我民以色列。
And I will dwell among the children of Israel, and will not forsake my people Israel.

6:14    所羅門建造殿宇。
So Solomon built the house, and finished it.

6:15    殿裡面用香柏木板貼牆，從地到棚頂都用木板遮蔽，又用松木板鋪地。
And he built the walls of the house within with boards of cedar, both the floor of the house, and the walls of the ceiling: and he covered them on the inside with wood, and covered the floor of the house with planks of fir.

6:16    內殿，就是至聖所，長二十肘，從地到棚頂用香柏木板遮蔽（或作隔斷）。
And he built twenty cubits on the sides of the house, both the floor and the walls with boards of cedar: he even built them for it within, even for the oracle, even for the most holy place.

6:17    內殿前的外殿，長四十肘。
And the house, that is, the temple before it, was forty cubits long.

6:18    殿裡一點石頭都不顯露，一概用香柏木遮蔽。上面刻著野瓜和初開的花。
And the cedar of the house within was carved with knops and open flowers: all was cedar; there was no stone seen.

6:19    殿裡預備了內殿，好安放耶和華的約櫃。
And the oracle he prepared in the house within, to set there the ark of the covenant of the LORD.

6:20    內殿長二十肘，寬二十肘，高二十肘，牆面都貼上精金。又用香柏木作壇，包上精金。
And the oracle in the forepart was twenty cubits in length, and twenty cubits in breadth, and twenty cubits in the height thereof: and he overlaid it with pure gold; and so covered the altar which was of cedar.

6:21    所羅門用精金貼了殿內的牆，又用金鍊子掛在內殿前門扇，用金包裹。
So Solomon overlaid the house within with pure gold: and he made a partition by the chains of gold before the oracle; and he overlaid it with gold.

6:22    全殿都貼上金子，直到貼完。內殿前的壇，也都用金包裹。
And the whole house he overlaid with gold, until he had finished all the house: also the whole altar that was by the oracle he overlaid with gold.

6:23    他用橄欖木作兩個基路伯，各高十肘，安在內殿。
And within the oracle he made two cherubims of olive tree, each ten cubits high.

6:24    這一個基路伯有兩個翅膀，各長五肘，從這翅膀尖到那翅膀尖共有十肘。
And five cubits was the one wing of the cherub, and five cubits the other wing of the cherub: from the uttermost part of the one wing unto the uttermost part of the other were ten cubits.

6:25    那一個基路伯的兩個翅膀也是十肘，兩個基路伯的尺寸，形像都是一樣。
And the other cherub was ten cubits: both the cherubims were of one measure and one size.

6:26    這基路伯高十肘，那基路伯也是如此。
The height of the one cherub was ten cubits, and so was it of the other cherub.

6:27    他將兩個基路伯安在內殿裡。基路伯的翅膀是張開的，這基路伯的一個翅膀挨著這邊的牆，那基路伯的一個翅膀挨著那邊的牆，裡邊的兩個翅膀在殿中間彼此相接。
And he set the cherubims within the inner house: and they stretched forth the wings of the cherubims, so that the wing of the one touched the one wall, and the wing of the other cherub touched the other wall; and their wings touched one another in the midst of the house.

6:28    又用金子包裹二基路伯。
And he overlaid the cherubims with gold.

6:29    內殿，外殿周圍的牆上都刻著基路伯，棕樹，和初開的花。
And he carved all the walls of the house round about with carved figures of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, within and without.

6:30    內殿，外殿的地板都貼上金子。
And the floor of the house he overlaid with gold, within and without.

6:31    又用橄欖木製造內殿的門扇，門楣，門框。門口有牆的五分之一。
And for the entering of the oracle he made doors of olive tree: the lintel and side posts were a fifth part of the wall.

6:32    在橄欖木作的兩門扇上刻著基路伯，棕樹，和初開的花，都貼上金子。
The two doors also were of olive tree; and he carved upon them carvings of cherubims and palm trees and open flowers, and overlaid them with gold, and spread gold upon the cherubims, and upon the palm trees.

6:33    又用橄欖木製造外殿的門框，門口有牆的四分之一。
So also made he for the door of the temple posts of olive tree, a fourth part of the wall.

6:34    用松木作門兩扇。這扇分兩扇，是摺疊的。那扇分兩扇。也是摺疊的。
And the two doors were of fir tree: the two leaves of the one door were folding, and the two leaves of the other door were folding.

6:35    上面刻著基路伯，棕樹，和初開的花，都用金子貼了。
And he carved thereon cherubims and palm trees and open flowers: and covered them with gold fitted upon the carved work.

6:36    他又用鑿成的石頭三層，香柏木一層建築內院。
And he built the inner court with three rows of hewed stone, and a row of cedar beams.

6:37    所羅門在位第四年西弗月，立了耶和華殿的根基。
In the fourth year was the foundation of the house of the LORD laid, in the month Zif:

6:38    到十一年布勒月，就是八月，殿和一切屬殿的都按著樣式造成。他建殿的工夫共有七年。
And in the eleventh year, in the month Bul, which is the eighth month, was the house finished throughout all the parts thereof, and according to all the fashion of it. So was he seven years in building it.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


7:1    所羅門為自己建造宮室，十三年方才造成。
But Solomon was building his own house thirteen years, and he finished all his house.

7:2    又建造黎巴嫩林宮，長一百肘，寬五十肘，高三十肘，有香柏木柱三（原文作四）行，柱上有香柏木柁樑。
He built also the house of the forest of Lebanon; the length thereof was an hundred cubits, and the breadth thereof fifty cubits, and the height thereof thirty cubits, upon four rows of cedar pillars, with cedar beams upon the pillars.

7:3    其上以香柏木為蓋，每行柱子十五根，共有四十五根。
And it was covered with cedar above upon the beams, that lay on forty five pillars, fifteen in a row.

7:4    有窗戶三層，窗與窗相對。
And there were windows in three rows, and light was against light in three ranks.

7:5    所有的門框都是厚木見方的，有窗戶三層，窗與窗相對。
And all the doors and posts were square, with the windows: and light was against light in three ranks.

7:6    並建造有柱子的廊子，長五十肘，寬三十肘。在這廊前又有廊子，廊外有柱子和臺階。
And he made a porch of pillars; the length thereof was fifty cubits, and the breadth thereof thirty cubits: and the porch was before them: and the other pillars and the thick beam were before them.

7:7    又建造一廊，其中設立審判的座位，這廊從地到頂都用香柏木遮蔽。
Then he made a porch for the throne where he might judge, even the porch of judgment: and it was covered with cedar from one side of the floor to the other.

7:8    廊後院內有所羅門住的宮室。工作與這工作相同。所羅門又為所娶法老的女兒建造一宮，作法與這廊子一樣。
And his house where he dwelt had another court within the porch, which was of the like work. Solomon made also an house for Pharaoh's daughter, whom he had taken to wife, like unto this porch.

7:9    建造這一切所用的石頭都是寶貴的，是按著尺寸鑿成的，是用鋸裡外鋸齊的。從根基直到簷石，從外頭直到大院，都是如此。
All these were of costly stones, according to the measures of hewed stones, sawed with saws, within and without, even from the foundation unto the coping, and so on the outside toward the great court.

7:10    根基是寶貴的大石頭，有長十肘的，有長八肘的。
And the foundation was of costly stones, even great stones, stones of ten cubits, and stones of eight cubits.

7:11    上面有香柏木和按著尺寸鑿成寶貴的石頭。
And above were costly stones, after the measures of hewed stones, and cedars.

7:12    大院周圍有鑿成的石頭三層，香柏木一層，都照耶和華殿的內院和殿廊的樣式。
And the great court round about was with three rows of hewed stones, and a row of cedar beams, both for the inner court of the house of the LORD, and for the porch of the house.

7:13    所羅門王差遣人往推羅去，將戶蘭召了來。
And king Solomon sent and fetched Hiram out of Tyre.

7:14    他是拿弗他利支派中一個寡婦的兒子，他父親是推羅人，作銅匠的。戶蘭滿有智慧，聰明，技能，善於各樣銅作。他來到所羅門王那裡，作王一切所要作的。
He was a widow's son of the tribe of Naphtali, and his father was a man of Tyre, a worker in brass: and he was filled with wisdom, and understanding, and cunning to work all works in brass. And he came to king Solomon, and wrought all his work.

7:15    他製造兩根銅柱，每根高十八肘，圍十二肘。
For he cast two pillars of brass, of eighteen cubits high apiece: and a line of twelve cubits did compass either of them about.

7:16    又用銅鑄了兩個柱頂安在柱上，各高五肘。
And he made two chapiters of molten brass, to set upon the tops of the pillars: the height of the one chapiter was five cubits, and the height of the other chapiter was five cubits:

7:17    柱頂上有裝修的網子和擰成的鏈索，每頂七個。
And nets of checker work, and wreaths of chain work, for the chapiters which were upon the top of the pillars; seven for the one chapiter, and seven for the other chapiter.

7:18    網子周圍有兩行石榴遮蓋柱頂，兩個柱頂都是如此。
And he made the pillars, and two rows round about upon the one network, to cover the chapiters that were upon the top, with pomegranates: and so did he for the other chapiter.

7:19    廊子的柱頂徑四肘，刻著百合花。
And the chapiters that were upon the top of the pillars were of lily work in the porch, four cubits.

7:20    兩柱頂的鼓肚上挨著網子，各有兩行石榴環繞，兩行共有二百。
And the chapiters upon the two pillars had pomegranates also above, over against the belly which was by the network: and the pomegranates were two hundred in rows round about upon the other chapiter.

7:21    他將兩根柱子立在殿廊前頭，右邊立一根，起名叫雅斤。左邊立一根，起名叫波阿斯。
And he set up the pillars in the porch of the temple: and he set up the right pillar, and called the name thereof Jachin: and he set up the left pillar, and called the name thereof Boaz.

7:22    在柱頂上刻著百合花。這樣，造柱子的工就完畢了。
And upon the top of the pillars was lily work: so was the work of the pillars finished.

7:23    他又鑄一個銅海，樣式是圓的，高五肘，徑十肘，圍三十肘。
And he made a molten sea, ten cubits from the one brim to the other: it was round all about, and his height was five cubits: and a line of thirty cubits did compass it round about.

7:24    在海邊之下，周圍有野瓜的樣式。每肘十瓜，共有兩行，是鑄海的時候鑄上的。
And under the brim of it round about there were knops compassing it, ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about: the knops were cast in two rows, when it was cast.

7:25    有十二隻銅牛馱海，三隻向北，三隻向西，三隻向南，三隻向東。海在牛上，牛尾都向內。
It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them, and all their hinder parts were inward.

7:26    海厚一掌，邊如杯邊，又如百合花，可容二千吧特。
And it was an hand breadth thick, and the brim thereof was wrought like the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies: it contained two thousand baths.

7:27    他用銅製造十個盆座，每座長四肘，寬四肘，高三肘。
And he made ten bases of brass; four cubits was the length of one base, and four cubits the breadth thereof, and three cubits the height of it.

7:28    座的造法是這樣，四面都有心子，心子在邊子當中，
And the work of the bases was on this manner: they had borders, and the borders were between the ledges:

7:29    心子上有獅子和牛，並基路伯。邊上有小座，獅子和牛以下有垂下的瓔珞。
And on the borders that were between the ledges were lions, oxen, and cherubims: and upon the ledges there was a base above: and beneath the lions and oxen were certain additions made of thin work.

7:30    每盆座有四個銅輪和銅軸。小座的四角上在盆以下，有鑄成的盆架，其旁都有瓔珞。
And every base had four brasen wheels, and plates of brass: and the four corners thereof had undersetters: under the laver were undersetters molten, at the side of every addition.

7:31    小座高一肘，口是圓的，彷佛座的樣式，徑一肘半，在口上有雕工，心子是方的，不是圓的。
And the mouth of it within the chapiter and above was a cubit: but the mouth thereof was round after the work of the base, a cubit and an half: and also upon the mouth of it were gravings with their borders, foursquare, not round.

7:32    四個輪子在心子以下，輪軸與座相連，每輪高一肘半。
And under the borders were four wheels; and the axletrees of the wheels were joined to the base: and the height of a wheel was a cubit and half a cubit.

7:33    輪的樣式如同車輪。軸，輞，輻，轂都是鑄的。
And the work of the wheels was like the work of a chariot wheel: their axletrees, and their naves, and their felloes, and their spokes, were all molten.

7:34    每座四角上都有盆架，是與座一同鑄成的。
And there were four undersetters to the four corners of one base: and the undersetters were of the very base itself.

7:35    座上有圓架，高半肘。座上有撐子和心子，是與座一同鑄的。
And in the top of the base was there a round compass of half a cubit high: and on the top of the base the ledges thereof and the borders thereof were of the same.

7:36    在撐子和心子上刻著基路伯，獅子，和棕樹，周圍有瓔珞。
For on the plates of the ledges thereof, and on the borders thereof, he graved cherubims, lions, and palm trees, according to the proportion of every one, and additions round about.

7:37    十個盆座都是這樣，鑄法，尺寸，樣式相同。
After this manner he made the ten bases: all of them had one casting, one measure, and one size.

7:38    又用銅製造十個盆，每盆可容四十吧特。盆徑四肘，在那十座上，每座安設一盆。
Then made he ten lavers of brass: one laver contained forty baths: and every laver was four cubits: and upon every one of the ten bases one laver.

7:39    五個安在殿門的右邊，五個放在殿門的左邊。又將海放在殿門的右旁，就是南邊。
And he put five bases on the right side of the house, and five on the left side of the house: and he set the sea on the right side of the house eastward over against the south.

7:40    戶蘭又造了盆，鏟子，和盤子。這樣，他為所羅門王作完了耶和華殿的一切工。
And Hiram made the lavers, and the shovels, and the basons. So Hiram made an end of doing all the work that he made king Solomon for the house of the LORD:

7:41    所造的就是，兩根柱子和柱上兩個如球的頂。並兩個蓋柱頂的網子。
The two pillars, and the two bowls of the chapiters that were on the top of the two pillars; and the two networks, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters which were upon the top of the pillars;

7:42    和四百石榴，安在兩個網子上，每網兩行，蓋著兩個柱上如球的頂。
And four hundred pomegranates for the two networks, even two rows of pomegranates for one network, to cover the two bowls of the chapiters that were upon the pillars;

7:43    十個座和其上的十個盆。
And the ten bases, and ten lavers on the bases;

7:44    海和海下的十二隻牛。
And one sea, and twelve oxen under the sea;

7:45    盆，鏟子，盤子。這一切都是戶蘭給所羅門王用光亮的銅為耶和華的殿造成的，
And the pots, and the shovels, and the basons: and all these vessels, which Hiram made to king Solomon for the house of the LORD, were of bright brass.

7:46    是遵王命在約旦平原，疏割和撒拉但中間藉膠泥鑄成的。
In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zarthan.

7:47    這一切所羅門都沒有過秤。因為甚多，銅的輕重也無法可查。
And Solomon left all the vessels unweighed, because they were exceeding many: neither was the weight of the brass found out.

7:48    所羅門又造耶和華殿裡的金壇和陳設餅的金桌子。
And Solomon made all the vessels that pertained unto the house of the LORD: the altar of gold, and the table of gold, whereupon the shewbread was,

7:49    內殿前的精金燈臺，右邊五個，左邊五個，並其上的金花，燈盞，臘剪，
And the candlesticks of pure gold, five on the right side, and five on the left, before the oracle, with the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs of gold,

7:50    與精金的杯，盤，鑷子，調羹，火鼎，以及至聖所，內殿的門樞，和外殿的門樞。
And the bowls, and the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons, and the censers of pure gold; and the hinges of gold, both for the doors of the inner house, the most holy place, and for the doors of the house, to wit, of the temple.

7:51    所羅門王作完了耶和華殿的一切工，就把他父大衛分別為聖的金銀和器皿都帶來放在耶和華殿的府庫裡。
So was ended all the work that king Solomon made for the house of the LORD. And Solomon brought in the things which David his father had dedicated; even the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, did he put among the treasures of the house of the LORD.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


8:1    那時，所羅門將以色列的長老和各支派的首領，並以色列的族長，招聚到耶路撒冷，要把耶和華的約櫃從大衛城就是錫安運上來。
Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto king Solomon in Jerusalem, that they might bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion.

8:2    以他念月，就是七月，在節前，以色列人都聚集到所羅門王那裡。
And all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto king Solomon at the feast in the month Ethanim, which is the seventh month.

8:3    以色列長老來到，祭司便抬起約櫃，
And all the elders of Israel came, and the priests took up the ark.

8:4    祭司和利未人將耶和華的約櫃運上來，又將會幕和會幕的一切聖器具都帶上來。
And they brought up the ark of the LORD, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle, even those did the priests and the Levites bring up.

8:5    所羅門王和聚集到他那裡的以色列全會眾，一同在約櫃前獻牛羊為祭，多得不可勝數。
And king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel, that were assembled unto him, were with him before the ark, sacrificing sheep and oxen, that could not be told nor numbered for multitude.

8:6    祭司將耶和華的約櫃抬進內殿，就是至聖所，放在兩個基路伯的翅膀底下。
And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD unto his place, into the oracle of the house, to the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubims.

8:7    基路伯張著翅膀在約櫃之上，遮掩約櫃和抬櫃的槓。
For the cherubims spread forth their two wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims covered the ark and the staves thereof above.

8:8    這槓甚長，槓頭在內殿前的聖所可以看見，在殿外卻不能看見，直到如今還在那裡。
And they drew out the staves, that the ends of the staves were seen out in the holy place before the oracle, and they were not seen without: and there they are unto this day.

8:9    約櫃裡惟有兩塊石版，就是以色列人出埃及地後，耶和華與他們立約的時候摩西在何烈山所放的。除此以外，並無別物。
There was nothing in the ark save the two tables of stone, which Moses put there at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of the land of Egypt.

8:10    祭司從聖所出來的時候，有云充滿耶和華的殿。
And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy place, that the cloud filled the house of the LORD,

8:11    甚至祭司不能站立供職，因為耶和華的榮光充滿了殿。
So that the priests could not stand to minister because of the cloud: for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of the LORD.

8:12    那時所羅門說，耶和華曾說，他必住在幽暗之處。
Then spake Solomon, The LORD said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.

8:13    我已經建造殿宇作你的居所，為你永遠的住處。
I have surely built thee an house to dwell in, a settled place for thee to abide in for ever.

8:14    王轉臉為以色列會眾祝福，以色列會眾就都站立。
And the king turned his face about, and blessed all the congregation of Israel: (and all the congregation of Israel stood;)

8:15    所羅門說，耶和華以色列的神是應當稱頌的。因他親口向我父大衛所應許的，也親手成就了。
And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, which spake with his mouth unto David my father, and hath with his hand fulfilled it, saying,

8:16    他說，自從我領我民以色列出埃及以來，我未曾在以色列各支派中選擇一城建造殿宇為我名的居所，但揀選大衛治理我民以色列。
Since the day that I brought forth my people Israel out of Egypt, I chose no city out of all the tribes of Israel to build an house, that my name might be therein; but I chose David to be over my people Israel.

8:17    所羅門說，我父大衛曾立意，要為耶和華以色列神的名建殿。
And it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.

8:18    耶和華卻對我父大衛說，你立意為我的名建殿，這意思甚好。
And the LORD said unto David my father, Whereas it was in thine heart to build an house unto my name, thou didst well that it was in thine heart.

8:19    只是你不可建殿，惟你所生的兒子必為我名建殿。
Nevertheless thou shalt not build the house; but thy son that shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house unto my name.

8:20    現在耶和華成就了他所應許的話，使我接續我父大衛坐以色列的國位，又為耶和華以色列神的名建造了殿。
And the LORD hath performed his word that he spake, and I am risen up in the room of David my father, and sit on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built an house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.

8:21    我也在其中為約櫃預備一處。約櫃內有耶和華的約，就是他領我們列祖出埃及地的時候，與他們所立的約。
And I have set there a place for the ark, wherein is the covenant of the LORD, which he made with our fathers, when he brought them out of the land of Egypt.

8:22    所羅門當著以色列會眾，站在耶和華的壇前，向天舉手說，
And Solomon stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven:

8:23    耶和華以色列的神阿，天上地下沒有神可比你的。你向那盡心行在你面前的僕人守約施慈愛。
And he said, LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee, in heaven above, or on earth beneath, who keepest covenant and mercy with thy servants that walk before thee with all their heart:

8:24    向你僕人我父大衛所應許的話現在應驗了。你親口應許，親手成就，正如今日一樣。
Who hast kept with thy servant David my father that thou promisedst him: thou spakest also with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thine hand, as it is this day.

8:25    耶和華以色列的神阿，你所應許你僕人我父大衛的話說，你的子孫若謹慎自己的行為，在我面前行事像你所行的一樣，就不斷人坐以色列的國位。現在求你應驗這話。
Therefore now, LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant David my father that thou promisedst him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit on the throne of Israel; so that thy children take heed to their way, that they walk before me as thou hast walked before me.

8:26    以色列的神阿，求你成就向你僕人我父大衛所應許的話。
And now, O God of Israel, let thy word, I pray thee, be verified, which thou spakest unto thy servant David my father.

8:27    神果真住在地上嗎。看哪，天和天上的天尚且不足你居住的，何況我所建的這殿呢。
But will God indeed dwell on the earth? behold, the heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this house that I have builded?

8:28    惟求耶和華我的神垂顧僕人的禱告祈求，俯聽僕人今日在你面前的祈禱呼籲。
Yet have thou respect unto the prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to hearken unto the cry and to the prayer, which thy servant prayeth before thee to day:

8:29    願你晝夜看顧這殿，就是你應許立為你名的居所。求你垂聽僕人向此處禱告的話。
That thine eyes may be open toward this house night and day, even toward the place of which thou hast said, My name shall be there: that thou mayest hearken unto the prayer which thy servant shall make toward this place.

8:30    你僕人和你民以色列向此處祈禱的時候，求你在天上你的居所垂聽，垂聽而赦免。
And hearken thou to the supplication of thy servant, and of thy people Israel, when they shall pray toward this place: and hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place: and when thou hearest, forgive.

8:31    人若得罪鄰舍，有人叫他起誓，他來到這殿在你的壇前起誓，
If any man trespass against his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon him to cause him to swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house:

8:32    求你在天上垂聽，判斷你的僕人，定惡人有罪，照他所行的報應在他頭上。定義人有理，照他的義賞賜他。
Then hear thou in heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, condemning the wicked, to bring his way upon his head; and justifying the righteous, to give him according to his righteousness.

8:33    你的民以色列若得罪你，敗在仇敵面前，又歸向你，承認你的名，在這殿裡祈求禱告，
When thy people Israel be smitten down before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee, and shall turn again to thee, and confess thy name, and pray, and make supplication unto thee in this house:

8:34    求你在天上垂聽，赦免你民以色列的罪，使他們歸回你賜給他們列祖之地。
Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest unto their fathers.

8:35    你的民因得罪你，你懲罰他們，使天閉塞不下雨。他們若向此處禱告，承認你的名，離開他們的罪，
When heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; if they pray toward this place, and confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou afflictest them:

8:36    求你在天上垂聽，赦免你僕人以色列民的罪，將當行的善道指教他們，且降雨在你的地，就是你賜給你民為業之地。
Then hear thou in heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, and of thy people Israel, that thou teach them the good way wherein they should walk, and give rain upon thy land, which thou hast given to thy people for an inheritance.

8:37    國中若有饑荒，瘟疫，旱風，黴爛，蝗蟲，螞蚱，或有仇敵犯境圍困城邑，無論遭遇什麼災禍疾病，
If there be in the land famine, if there be pestilence, blasting, mildew, locust, or if there be caterpiller; if their enemy besiege them in the land of their cities; whatsoever plague, whatsoever sickness there be;

8:38    你的民以色列，或是眾人，或是一人，自覺有罪（原文作災），向這殿舉手，無論祈求什麼，禱告什麼，
What prayer and supplication soever be made by any man, or by all thy people Israel, which shall know every man the plague of his own heart, and spread forth his hands toward this house:

8:39    求你在天上你的居所垂聽赦免。你是知道人心的，要照各人所行的待他們，（惟有你知道世人的心），
Then hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and do, and give to every man according to his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou, even thou only, knowest the hearts of all the children of men;)

8:40    使他們在你賜給我們列祖之地上一生一世敬畏你。
That they may fear thee all the days that they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers.

8:41    論到不屬你民以色列的外邦人，為你名從遠方而來，
Moreover concerning a stranger, that is not of thy people Israel, but cometh out of a far country for thy name's sake;

8:42    （他們聽人論說你的大名和大能的手，並伸出來的膀臂）向這殿禱告，
(For they shall hear of thy great name, and of thy strong hand, and of thy stretched out arm;) when he shall come and pray toward this house;

8:43    求你在天上你的居所垂聽，照著外邦人所祈求的而行，使天下萬民都認識你的名，敬畏你像你的民以色列一樣。又使他們知道我建造的這殿是稱為你名下的。
Hear thou in heaven thy dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for: that all people of the earth may know thy name, to fear thee, as do thy people Israel; and that they may know that this house, which I have builded, is called by thy name.

8:44    你的民若奉你的差遣，無論往何處去與仇敵爭戰，向耶和華所選擇的城與我為你名所建造的殿禱告，
If thy people go out to battle against their enemy, whithersoever thou shalt send them, and shall pray unto the LORD toward the city which thou hast chosen, and toward the house that I have built for thy name:

8:45    求你在天上垂聽他們的禱告祈求，使他們得勝。
Then hear thou in heaven their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.

8:46    你的民若得罪你（世上沒有不犯罪的人），你向他們發怒，將他們交給仇敵擄到仇敵之地，或遠或近，
If they sin against thee, (for there is no man that sinneth not,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them to the enemy, so that they carry them away captives unto the land of the enemy, far or near;

8:47    他們若在擄到之地想起罪來，回心轉意，懇求你說，我們有罪了，我們悖逆了，我們作惡了。
Yet if they shall bethink themselves in the land whither they were carried captives, and repent, and make supplication unto thee in the land of them that carried them captives, saying, We have sinned, and have done perversely, we have committed wickedness;

8:48    他們若在擄到之地盡心儘性歸服你，又向自己的地，就是你賜給他們列祖之地和你所選擇的城，並我為你名所建造的殿禱告，
And so return unto thee with all their heart, and with all their soul, in the land of their enemies, which led them away captive, and pray unto thee toward their land, which thou gavest unto their fathers, the city which thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name:

8:49    求你在天上你的居所垂聽他們的禱告祈求，為他們伸冤。
Then hear thou their prayer and their supplication in heaven thy dwelling place, and maintain their cause,

8:50    饒恕得罪你的民，赦免他們的一切過犯，使他們在擄他們的人面前蒙憐恤。
And forgive thy people that have sinned against thee, and all their transgressions wherein they have transgressed against thee, and give them compassion before them who carried them captive, that they may have compassion on them:

8:51    因為他們是你的子民，你的產業，是你從埃及領出來脫離鐵爐的。
For they be thy people, and thine inheritance, which thou broughtest forth out of Egypt, from the midst of the furnace of iron:

8:52    願你的眼目看顧僕人，聽你民以色列的祈求，無論何時向你祈求，願你垂聽。
That thine eyes may be open unto the supplication of thy servant, and unto the supplication of thy people Israel, to hearken unto them in all that they call for unto thee.

8:53    主耶和華阿，你將他們從地上的萬民中分別出來作你的產業，是照你領我們列祖出埃及的時候，藉你僕人摩西所應許的話。
For thou didst separate them from among all the people of the earth, to be thine inheritance, as thou spakest by the hand of Moses thy servant, when thou broughtest our fathers out of Egypt, O LORD God.

8:54    所羅門在耶和華的壇前屈膝跪著，向天舉手，在耶和華面前禱告祈求已畢，就起來，
And it was so, that when Solomon had made an end of praying all this prayer and supplication unto the LORD, he arose from before the altar of the LORD, from kneeling on his knees with his hands spread up to heaven.

8:55    站著，大聲為以色列全會眾祝福，說，
And he stood, and blessed all the congregation of Israel with a loud voice, saying,

8:56    耶和華是應當稱頌的。因為他照著一切所應許的賜平安給他的民以色列人，凡藉他僕人摩西應許賜福的話，一句都沒有落空。
Blessed be the LORD, that hath given rest unto his people Israel, according to all that he promised: there hath not failed one word of all his good promise, which he promised by the hand of Moses his servant.

8:57    願耶和華我們的神與我們同在，像與我們列祖同在一樣，不撇下我們，不丟棄我們，
The LORD our God be with us, as he was with our fathers: let him not leave us, nor forsake us:

8:58    使我們的心歸向他，遵行他的道，謹守他吩咐我們列祖的誡命，律例，典章。
That he may incline our hearts unto him, to walk in all his ways, and to keep his commandments, and his statutes, and his judgments, which he commanded our fathers.

8:59    我在耶和華面前祈求的這些話，願耶和華我們的神晝夜垂念，每日為他僕人與他民以色列伸冤，
And let these my words, wherewith I have made supplication before the LORD, be nigh unto the LORD our God day and night, that he maintain the cause of his servant, and the cause of his people Israel at all times, as the matter shall require:

8:60    使地上的萬民都知道惟獨耶和華是神，並無別神。
That all the people of the earth may know that the LORD is God, and that there is none else.

8:61    所以你們當向耶和華我們的神存誠實的心，遵行他的律例，謹守他的誡命，至終如今日一樣。
Let your heart therefore be perfect with the LORD our God, to walk in his statutes, and to keep his commandments, as at this day.

8:62    王和以色列眾民一同在耶和華面前獻祭。
And the king, and all Israel with him, offered sacrifice before the LORD.

8:63    所羅門向耶和華獻平安祭，用牛二萬二千，羊十二萬。這樣，王和以色列眾民為耶和華的殿行奉獻之禮。
And Solomon offered a sacrifice of peace offerings, which he offered unto the LORD, two and twenty thousand oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep. So the king and all the children of Israel dedicated the house of the LORD.

8:64    當日，王因耶和華殿前的銅壇太小，容不下燔祭，素祭，和平安祭牲的脂油，便將耶和華殿前院子當中分別為聖，在那裡獻燔祭，素祭，和平安祭牲的脂油。
The same day did the king hallow the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and meat offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings: because the brasen altar that was before the LORD was too little to receive the burnt offerings, and meat offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings.

8:65    那時，所羅門和以色列眾人，就是從哈馬口直到埃及小河所有的以色列人，都聚整合為大會，在耶和華我們的神面前守節七日又七日，共十四日。
And at that time Solomon held a feast, and all Israel with him, a great congregation, from the entering in of Hamath unto the river of Egypt, before the LORD our God, seven days and seven days, even fourteen days.

8:66    第八日，王遣散眾民。他們都為王祝福。因見耶和華向他僕人大衛和他民以色列所施的一切恩惠，就都心中喜樂，各歸各家去了。
On the eighth day he sent the people away: and they blessed the king, and went unto their tents joyful and glad of heart for all the goodness that the LORD had done for David his servant, and for Israel his people.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


9:1    所羅門建造耶和華殿和王宮，並一切所願意建造的都完畢了，
And it came to pass, when Solomon had finished the building of the house of the LORD, and the king's house, and all Solomon's desire which he was pleased to do,

9:2    耶和華就二次向所羅門顯現，如先前在基遍向他顯現一樣，
That the LORD appeared to Solomon the second time, as he had appeared unto him at Gibeon.

9:3    對他說，你向我所禱告祈求的，我都應允了。我已將你所建的這殿分別為聖，使我的名永遠在其中。我的眼，我的心也必常在那裡。
And the LORD said unto him, I have heard thy prayer and thy supplication, that thou hast made before me: I have hallowed this house, which thou hast built, to put my name there for ever; and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetually.

9:4    你若效法你父大衛，存誠實正直的心行在我面前，遵行我一切所吩咐你的，謹守我的律例典章，
And if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, in integrity of heart, and in uprightness, to do according to all that I have commanded thee, and wilt keep my statutes and my judgments:

9:5    我就必堅固你的國位在以色列中，直到永遠，正如我應許你父大衛說，你的子孫必不斷人坐以色列的國位。
Then I will establish the throne of thy kingdom upon Israel for ever, as I promised to David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man upon the throne of Israel.

9:6    倘若你們和你們的子孫轉去不跟從我，不守我指示你們的誡命律例，去事奉敬拜別神，
But if ye shall at all turn from following me, ye or your children, and will not keep my commandments and my statutes which I have set before you, but go and serve other gods, and worship them:

9:7    我就必將以色列人從我賜給他們的地上剪除，並且我為己名所分別為聖的殿也必捨棄不顧，使以色列人在萬民中作笑談，被譏誚。
Then will I cut off Israel out of the land which I have given them; and this house, which I have hallowed for my name, will I cast out of my sight; and Israel shall be a proverb and a byword among all people:

9:8    這殿雖然甚高，將來經過的人必驚訝，嗤笑，說，耶和華為何向這地和這殿如此行呢。
And at this house, which is high, every one that passeth by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss; and they shall say, Why hath the LORD done thus unto this land, and to this house?

9:9    人必回答說，是因此地的人離棄領他們列祖出埃及地之耶和華他們的神，去親近別神，事奉敬拜他，所以耶和華使這一切災禍臨到他們。
And they shall answer, Because they forsook the LORD their God, who brought forth their fathers out of the land of Egypt, and have taken hold upon other gods, and have worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath the LORD brought upon them all this evil.

9:10    所羅門建造耶和華殿和王宮，這兩所二十年才完畢了。
And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, when Solomon had built the two houses, the house of the LORD, and the king's house,

9:11    （推羅王希蘭曾照所羅門所要的，資助他香柏木，松木，和金子）所羅門王就把加利利地的二十座城給了希蘭。
(Now Hiram the king of Tyre had furnished Solomon with cedar trees and fir trees, and with gold, according to all his desire,) that then king Solomon gave Hiram twenty cities in the land of Galilee.

9:12    希蘭從推羅出來，察看所羅門給他的城邑，就不喜悅，
And Hiram came out from Tyre to see the cities which Solomon had given him; and they pleased him not.

9:13    說，我兄阿，你給我的是什麼城邑呢。他就給這城邑之地起名叫迦步勒，直到今日。
And he said, What cities are these which thou hast given me, my brother? And he called them the land of Cabul unto this day.

9:14    希蘭給所羅門一百二十他連得金子。
And Hiram sent to the king sixscore talents of gold.

9:15    所羅門王挑取服苦的人，是為建造耶和華的殿，自己的宮，米羅，耶路撒冷的城牆，夏瑣，米吉多，並基色。
And this is the reason of the levy which king Solomon raised; for to build the house of the LORD, and his own house, and Millo, and the wall of Jerusalem, and Hazor, and Megiddo, and Gezer.

9:16    先前埃及王法老上來攻取基色，用火焚燒，殺了城內居住的迦南人，將城賜給他女兒所羅門的妻作妝奩。
For Pharaoh king of Egypt had gone up, and taken Gezer, and burnt it with fire, and slain the Canaanites that dwelt in the city, and given it for a present unto his daughter, Solomon's wife.

9:17    所羅門建造基色，下伯和侖，
And Solomon built Gezer, and Bethhoron the nether,

9:18    巴拉，並國中曠野裡的達莫，
And Baalath, and Tadmor in the wilderness, in the land,

9:19    又建造所有的積貨城，並屯車和馬兵的城，與耶路撒冷，黎巴嫩，以及自己治理的全國中所願建造的。
And all the cities of store that Solomon had, and cities for his chariots, and cities for his horsemen, and that which Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and in all the land of his dominion.



9:20    至於國中所剩下不屬以色列人的亞摩利人，赫人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人，
And all the people that were left of the Amorites, Hittites, Perizzites, Hivites, and Jebusites, which were not of the children of Israel,

9:21    就是以色列人不能滅盡的，所羅門挑取他們的後裔作服苦的奴僕，直到今日。
Their children that were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel also were not able utterly to destroy, upon those did Solomon levy a tribute of bondservice unto this day.

9:22    惟有以色列人，所羅門不使他們作奴僕，乃是作他的戰士，臣僕，統領，軍長，車兵長，馬兵長。
But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no bondmen: but they were men of war, and his servants, and his princes, and his captains, and rulers of his chariots, and his horsemen.

9:23    所羅門有五百五十督工的，監管工人。
These were the chief of the officers that were over Solomon's work, five hundred and fifty, which bare rule over the people that wrought in the work.

9:24    法老的女兒從大衛城搬到所羅門為她建造的宮裡。那時，所羅門才建造米羅。
But Pharaoh's daughter came up out of the city of David unto her house which Solomon had built for her: then did he build Millo.

9:25    所羅門每年三次在他為耶和華所築的壇上獻燔祭和平安祭，又在耶和華面前的壇上燒香。這樣，他建造殿的工程完畢了。
And three times in a year did Solomon offer burnt offerings and peace offerings upon the altar which he built unto the LORD, and he burnt incense upon the altar that was before the LORD. So he finished the house.

9:26    所羅門王在以東地紅海邊，靠近以祿的以旬迦別製造船隻。
And king Solomon made a navy of ships in Eziongeber, which is beside Eloth, on the shore of the Red sea, in the land of Edom.

9:27    希蘭差遣他的僕人，就是熟悉泛海的船家，與所羅門的僕人一同坐船航海。
And Hiram sent in the navy his servants, shipmen that had knowledge of the sea, with the servants of Solomon.

9:28    他們到了俄斐，從那裡得了四百二十他連得金子，運到所羅門王那裡。
And they came to Ophir, and fetched from thence gold, four hundred and twenty talents, and brought it to king Solomon.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


10:1    示巴女王聽見所羅門因耶和華之名所得的名聲，就來要用難解的話試問所羅門。
And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon concerning the name of the LORD, she came to prove him with hard questions.

10:2    跟隨她到耶路撒冷的人甚多，又有駱駝馱著香料，寶石，和許多金子。她來見了所羅門王，就把心裡所有的對所羅門都說出來。
And she came to Jerusalem with a very great train, with camels that bare spices, and very much gold, and precious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart.

10:3    所羅門王將她所問的都答上了，沒有一句不明白，不能答的。
And Solomon told her all her questions: there was not any thing hid from the king, which he told her not.

10:4    示巴女王見所羅門大有智慧，和他所建造的宮室，
And when the queen of Sheba had seen all Solomon's wisdom, and the house that he had built,

10:5    席上的珍饈美味，群臣分列而坐，僕人兩旁侍立，以及他們的衣服裝飾和酒政的衣服裝飾，又見他上耶和華殿的臺階（或作他在耶和華殿裡所獻的燔祭），就詫異得神不守舍。
And the meat of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their apparel, and his cupbearers, and his ascent by which he went up unto the house of the LORD; there was no more spirit in her.

10:6    對王說，我在本國裡所聽見論到你的事和你的智慧實在是真的。
And she said to the king, It was a true report that I heard in mine own land of thy acts and of thy wisdom.

10:7    我先不信那些話，及至我來親眼見了才知道人所告訴我的還不到一半。你的智慧和你的福分越過我所聽見的風聲。
Howbeit I believed not the words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold, the half was not told me: thy wisdom and prosperity exceedeth the fame which I heard.

10:8    你的臣子，你的僕人常侍立在你面前聽你智慧的話是有福的。
Happy are thy men, happy are these thy servants, which stand continually before thee, and that hear thy wisdom.

10:9    耶和華你的神是應當稱頌的。他喜悅你，使你坐以色列的國位。因為他永遠愛以色列，所以立你作王，使你秉公行義。
Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee, to set thee on the throne of Israel: because the LORD loved Israel for ever, therefore made he thee king, to do judgment and justice.

10:10    於是，示巴女王將一百二十他連得金子和寶石，與極多的香料，送給所羅門王。她送給王的香料，以後奉來的不再有這樣多。
And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and of spices very great store, and precious stones: there came no more such abundance of spices as these which the queen of Sheba gave to king Solomon.

10:11    希蘭的船隻從俄斐運了金子來，又從俄斐運了許多檀香木（或作烏木下同）和寶石來。
And the navy also of Hiram, that brought gold from Ophir, brought in from Ophir great plenty of almug trees, and precious stones.

10:12    王用檀香木為耶和華殿和王宮作欄杆，又為歌唱的人作琴瑟。以後再沒有這樣的檀香木進國來，也沒有人看見過，直到如今。）
And the king made of the almug trees pillars for the house of the LORD, and for the king's house, harps also and psalteries for singers: there came no such almug trees, nor were seen unto this day.

10:13    示巴女王一切所要所求的，所羅門王都送給她，另外照自己的厚意饋送她。於是女王和她臣僕轉回本國去了。
And king Solomon gave unto the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatsoever she asked, beside that which Solomon gave her of his royal bounty. So she turned and went to her own country, she and her servants.

10:14    所羅門每年所得的金子共有六百六十六他連得。
Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred threescore and six talents of gold,

10:15    另外還有商人和雜族的諸王，與國中的省長，所進的金子。（雜族在歷代下九章十四節作阿拉伯）
Beside that he had of the merchantmen, and of the traffick of the spice merchants, and of all the kings of Arabia, and of the governors of the country.

10:16    所羅門王用錘出來的金子打成擋牌二百面，每面用金子六百舍客勒。
And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six hundred shekels of gold went to one target.

10:17    又用錘出來的金子打成盾牌三百面，每面用金子三彌那，都放在黎巴嫩林宮裡。
And he made three hundred shields of beaten gold; three pound of gold went to one shield: and the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.

10:18    王用象牙製造一個寶座，用精金包裹。
Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with the best gold.

10:19    寶座有六層臺階，座的後背是圓的，兩旁有扶手，靠近扶手有兩個獅子站立。
The throne had six steps, and the top of the throne was round behind: and there were stays on either side on the place of the seat, and two lions stood beside the stays.

10:20    六層臺階上有十二個獅子站立，每層有兩個，左邊一個，右邊一個。在列國中沒有這樣作的。
And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps: there was not the like made in any kingdom.

10:21    所羅門王一切的飲器都是金子的。黎巴嫩林宮裡的一切器皿都是精金的。所羅門年間，銀子算不了什麼。
And all king Solomon's drinking vessels were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold; none were of silver: it was nothing accounted of in the days of Solomon.

10:22    因為王有他施船隻與希蘭的船隻一同航海，三年一次，裝載金銀，象牙，猿猴，孔雀回來。
For the king had at sea a navy of Tharshish with the navy of Hiram: once in three years came the navy of Tharshish, bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

10:23    所羅門王的財寶與智慧勝過天下的列王。
So king Solomon exceeded all the kings of the earth for riches and for wisdom.

10:24    普天下的王都求見所羅門，要聽神賜給他智慧的話。
And all the earth sought to Solomon, to hear his wisdom, which God had put in his heart.

10:25    他們各帶貢物，就是金器，銀器，衣服，軍械，香料，騾馬，每年有一定之例。
And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and garments, and armour, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.

10:26    所羅門聚集戰車馬兵，有戰車一千四百輛，馬兵一萬二千名，安置在屯車的城邑和耶路撒冷，就是王那裡。
And Solomon gathered together chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, whom he bestowed in the cities for chariots, and with the king at Jerusalem.

10:27    王在耶路撒冷使銀子多如石頭，香柏木多如高原的桑樹。
And the king made silver to be in Jerusalem as stones, and cedars made he to be as the sycomore trees that are in the vale, for abundance.

10:28    所羅門的馬是從埃及帶來的，是王的商人一群一群按著定價買來的。
And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the king's merchants received the linen yarn at a price.

10:29    從埃及買來的車，每輛價銀六百舍客勒，馬每匹一百五十舍客勒。赫人諸王和亞蘭諸王所買的車馬，也是按這價值經他們手買來的。
And a chariot came up and went out of Egypt for six hundred shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty: and so for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, did they bring them out by their means.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


11:1    所羅門王在法老的女兒之外，又寵愛許多外邦女子，就是摩押女子，亞捫女子，以東女子，西頓女子，赫人女子。
But king Solomon loved many strange women, together with the daughter of Pharaoh, women of the Moabites, Ammonites, Edomites, Zidonians, and Hittites;

11:2    論到這些國的人，耶和華曾曉諭以色列人說，你們不可與她們往來相通，因為她們必誘惑你們的心去隨從她們的神。所羅門卻戀愛這些女子。
Of the nations concerning which the LORD said unto the children of Israel, Ye shall not go in to them, neither shall they come in unto you: for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods: Solomon clave unto these in love.

11:3    所羅門有妃七百，都是公主。還有嬪三百。這些妃嬪誘惑他的心。
And he had seven hundred wives, princesses, and three hundred concubines: and his wives turned away his heart.

11:4    所羅門年老的時候，他的妃嬪誘惑他的心去隨從別神，不效法他父親大衛誠誠實實地順服耶和華他的神。
For it came to pass, when Solomon was old, that his wives turned away his heart after other gods: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as was the heart of David his father.

11:5    因為所羅門隨從西頓人的女神亞斯她錄和亞捫人可憎的神米勒公。
For Solomon went after Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, and after Milcom the abomination of the Ammonites.

11:6    所羅門行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，不效法他父親大衛專心順從耶和華。
And Solomon did evil in the sight of the LORD, and went not fully after the LORD, as did David his father.

11:7    所羅門為摩押可憎的神基抹和亞捫人可憎的神摩洛，在耶路撒冷對面的山上建築邱壇。
Then did Solomon build an high place for Chemosh, the abomination of Moab, in the hill that is before Jerusalem, and for Molech, the abomination of the children of Ammon.

11:8    他為那些向自己的神燒香獻祭的外邦女子，就是他娶來的妃嬪也是這樣行。
And likewise did he for all his strange wives, which burnt incense and sacrificed unto their gods.

11:9    耶和華向所羅門發怒，因為他的心偏離向他兩次顯現的耶和華以色列的神。
And the LORD was angry with Solomon, because his heart was turned from the LORD God of Israel, which had appeared unto him twice,

11:10    耶和華曾吩咐他不可隨從別神，他卻沒有遵守耶和華所吩咐的。
And had commanded him concerning this thing, that he should not go after other gods: but he kept not that which the LORD commanded.

11:11    所以耶和華對他說，你忌行了這事，不遵守我所吩咐你守的約和律例，我必將你的國奪回，賜給你的臣子。
Wherefore the LORD said unto Solomon, Forasmuch as this is done of thee, and thou hast not kept my covenant and my statutes, which I have commanded thee, I will surely rend the kingdom from thee, and will give it to thy servant.

11:12    然而，因你父親大衛的緣故，我不在你活著的日子行這事，必從你兒子的手中將國奪回。
Notwithstanding in thy days I will not do it for David thy father's sake: but I will rend it out of the hand of thy son.

11:13    只是我不將全國奪回，要因我僕人大衛和我所選擇的耶路撒冷，還留一支派給你的兒子。
Howbeit I will not rend away all the kingdom; but will give one tribe to thy son for David my servant's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake which I have chosen.

11:14    耶和華使以東人哈達興起，作所羅門的敵人。他是以東王的後裔。
And the LORD stirred up an adversary unto Solomon, Hadad the Edomite: he was of the king's seed in Edom.

11:15    先前大衛攻擊以東，元帥約押上去葬埋陣亡的人，將以東的男丁都殺了。
For it came to pass, when David was in Edom, and Joab the captain of the host was gone up to bury the slain, after he had smitten every male in Edom;

11:16    約押和以色列眾人在以東住了六個月，直到將以東的男丁盡都剪除。
(For six months did Joab remain there with all Israel, until he had cut off every male in Edom:)

11:17    那時哈達還是幼童。他和他父親的臣僕，幾個以東人逃往埃及。
That Hadad fled, he and certain Edomites of his father's servants with him, to go into Egypt; Hadad being yet a little child.

11:18    他們從米甸起行，到了巴蘭。從巴蘭帶著幾個人來到埃及見埃及王法老。法老為他派定糧食，又給他房屋田地。
And they arose out of Midian, and came to Paran: and they took men with them out of Paran, and they came to Egypt, unto Pharaoh king of Egypt; which gave him an house, and appointed him victuals, and gave him land.

11:19    哈達在法老面前大蒙恩惠，以致法老將王后答比匿的妹子賜他為妻。
And Hadad found great favour in the sight of Pharaoh, so that he gave him to wife the sister of his own wife, the sister of Tahpenes the queen.

11:20    答比匿的妹子給哈達生了一個兒子，名叫基努拔。答比匿使基努拔在法老的宮裡斷奶，基努拔就與法老的眾子一同住在法老的宮裡。
And the sister of Tahpenes bare him Genubath his son, whom Tahpenes weaned in Pharaoh's house: and Genubath was in Pharaoh's household among the sons of Pharaoh.

11:21    哈達在埃及聽見大衛與他列祖同睡，元帥約押也死了，就對法老說，求王容我回本國去。
And when Hadad heard in Egypt that David slept with his fathers, and that Joab the captain of the host was dead, Hadad said to Pharaoh, Let me depart, that I may go to mine own country.

11:22    法老對他說，你在我這裡有什麼缺乏，你竟要回你本國去呢。他回答說，我沒有缺乏什麼，只是求王容我回去。
Then Pharaoh said unto him, But what hast thou lacked with me, that, behold, thou seekest to go to thine own country? And he answered, Nothing: howbeit let me go in any wise.

11:23    神又使以利亞大的兒子利遜興起，作所羅門的敵人。他先前逃避主人瑣巴王哈大底謝。
And God stirred him up another adversary, Rezon the son of Eliadah, which fled from his lord Hadadezer king of Zobah:

11:24    大衛擊殺瑣巴人的時候，利遜招聚了一群人，自己作他們的頭目，往大馬士革居住，在那裡作王。
And he gathered men unto him, and became captain over a band, when David slew them of Zobah: and they went to Damascus, and dwelt therein, and reigned in Damascus.

11:25    所羅門活著的時候，哈達為患之外，利遜也作以色列的敵人。他恨惡以色列人，且作了亞蘭人的王。
And he was an adversary to Israel all the days of Solomon, beside the mischief that Hadad did: and he abhorred Israel, and reigned over Syria.

11:26    所羅門的臣僕，尼八的兒子耶羅波安也舉手攻擊王。他是以法蓮支派的洗利達人，他母親是寡婦，名叫洗魯阿。
And Jeroboam the son of Nebat, an Ephrathite of Zereda, Solomon's servant, whose mother's name was Zeruah, a widow woman, even he lifted up his hand against the king.

11:27    他舉手攻擊王的緣故，乃由先前所羅門建造米羅，修補他父親大衛城的破口。
And this was the cause that he lifted up his hand against the king: Solomon built Millo, and repaired the breaches of the city of David his father.

11:28    耶羅波安是大有才能的人。所羅門見這少年人殷勤，就派他監管約瑟家的一切工程。
And the man Jeroboam was a mighty man of valour: and Solomon seeing the young man that he was industrious, he made him ruler over all the charge of the house of Joseph.



11:29    一日，耶羅波安出了耶路撒冷，示羅人先知亞希雅在路上遇見他。亞希雅身上穿著一件新衣。他們二人在田野，以外並無別人。
And it came to pass at that time when Jeroboam went out of Jerusalem, that the prophet Ahijah the Shilonite found him in the way; and he had clad himself with a new garment; and they two were alone in the field:

11:30    亞希雅將自己穿的那件新衣撕成十二片，
And Ahijah caught the new garment that was on him, and rent it in twelve pieces:

11:31    對耶羅波安說，你可以拿十片。耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必將國從所羅門手裡奪回，將十個支派賜給你。
And he said to Jeroboam, Take thee ten pieces: for thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, Behold, I will rend the kingdom out of the hand of Solomon, and will give ten tribes to thee:

11:32    （我因僕人大衛和我在以色列眾支派中所選擇的耶路撒冷城的緣故，仍給所羅門留一個支派。）
(But he shall have one tribe for my servant David's sake, and for Jerusalem's sake, the city which I have chosen out of all the tribes of Israel:)

11:33    因為他離棄我，敬拜西頓人的女神亞斯她錄，摩押的神基抹，和亞捫人的神米勒公，沒有遵從我的道，行我眼中看為正的事，守我的律例典章，像他父親大衛一樣。
Because that they have forsaken me, and have worshipped Ashtoreth the goddess of the Zidonians, Chemosh the god of the Moabites, and Milcom the god of the children of Ammon, and have not walked in my ways, to do that which is right in mine eyes, and to keep my statutes and my judgments, as did David his father.

11:34    但我不從他手裡將全國奪回。使他終身為君，是因我所揀選的僕人大衛謹守我的誡命律例。
Howbeit I will not take the whole kingdom out of his hand: but I will make him prince all the days of his life for David my servant's sake, whom I chose, because he kept my commandments and my statutes:

11:35    我必從他兒子的手裡將國奪回，以十個支派賜給你，
But I will take the kingdom out of his son's hand, and will give it unto thee, even ten tribes.

11:36    還留一個支派給他的兒子，使我僕人大衛在我所選擇立我名的耶路撒冷城裡，在我面前長有燈光。
And unto his son will I give one tribe, that David my servant may have a light alway before me in Jerusalem, the city which I have chosen me to put my name there.

11:37    我必揀選你，使你照心裡一切所願的，作王治理以色列。
And I will take thee, and thou shalt reign according to all that thy soul desireth, and shalt be king over Israel.

11:38    你若聽從我一切所吩咐你的，遵行我的道，行我眼中看為正的事，謹守我的律例誡命，像我僕人大衛所行的，我就與你同在，為你立堅固的家，像我為大衛所立的一樣，將以色列人賜給你。
And it shall be, if thou wilt hearken unto all that I command thee, and wilt walk in my ways, and do that is right in my sight, to keep my statutes and my commandments, as David my servant did; that I will be with thee, and build thee a sure house, as I built for David, and will give Israel unto thee.

11:39    我必因所羅門所行的使大衛後裔受患難，但不至於永遠。
And I will for this afflict the seed of David, but not for ever.

11:40    所羅門因此想要殺耶羅波安。耶羅波安卻起身逃往埃及。到了埃及王示撒那裡，就住在埃及，直到所羅門死了。
Solomon sought therefore to kill Jeroboam. And Jeroboam arose, and fled into Egypt, unto Shishak king of Egypt, and was in Egypt until the death of Solomon.

11:41    所羅門其餘的事，凡他所行的和他的智慧都寫在所羅門記上。
And the rest of the acts of Solomon, and all that he did, and his wisdom, are they not written in the book of the acts of Solomon?

11:42    所羅門在耶路撒冷作以色列眾人的王共四十年。
And the time that Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel was forty years.

11:43    所羅門與他列祖同睡，葬在他父親大衛的城裡。他兒子羅波安接續他作王。
And Solomon slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


12:1    羅波安往示劍去。因為以色列人都到了示劍要立他作王。
And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for all Israel were come to Shechem to make him king.

12:2    尼八的兒子耶羅波安先前躲避所羅門王，逃往埃及，住在那裡（他聽見這事。）
And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was yet in Egypt, heard of it, (for he was fled from the presence of king Solomon, and Jeroboam dwelt in Egypt;)

12:3    以色列人打發人去請他來，他就和以色列會眾都來見羅波安，對他說，
That they sent and called him. And Jeroboam and all the congregation of Israel came, and spake unto Rehoboam, saying,

12:4    你父親使我們負重軛，作苦工。現在求你使我們作的苦工，負的重軛輕鬆些，我們就事奉你。
Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore make thou the grievous service of thy father, and his heavy yoke which he put upon us, lighter, and we will serve thee.

12:5    羅波安對他們說，你們暫且去，第三日再來見我。民就去了。
And he said unto them, Depart yet for three days, then come again to me. And the people departed.

12:6    羅波安之父所羅門在世的日子，有侍立在他面前的老年人，羅波安王和他們商議，說，你們給我出個什麼主意，我好回覆這民。
And king Rehoboam consulted with the old men, that stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, and said, How do ye advise that I may answer this people?

12:7    老年人對他說，現在王若服事這民如僕人，用好話回答他們，他們就永遠作王的僕人。
And they spake unto him, saying, If thou wilt be a servant unto this people this day, and wilt serve them, and answer them, and speak good words to them, then they will be thy servants for ever.

12:8    王卻不用老年人給他出的主意，就和那些與他一同長大，在他面前侍立的少年人商議，
But he forsook the counsel of the old men, which they had given him, and consulted with the young men that were grown up with him, and which stood before him:

12:9    說，這民對我說，你父親使我們負重軛，求你使我們輕鬆些。你們給我出個什麼主意，我好回覆他們。
And he said unto them, What counsel give ye that we may answer this people, who have spoken to me, saying, Make the yoke which thy father did put upon us lighter?

12:10    那同他長大的少年人說，這民對王說，你父親使我們負重軛，求你使我們輕鬆些。王要對他們如此說，我的小拇指頭比我父親的腰還粗。
And the young men that were grown up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou speak unto this people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it lighter unto us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins.

12:11    我父親使你們負重軛，我必使你們負更重的軛。我父親用鞭子責打你們，我要用蠍子鞭責打你們。
And now whereas my father did lade you with a heavy yoke, I will add to your yoke: my father hath chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

12:12    耶羅波安和眾百姓遵著羅波安王所說你們第三日再來見我的那話，第三日他們果然來了。
So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam the third day, as the king had appointed, saying, Come to me again the third day.

12:13    王用嚴厲的話回答百姓，不用老年人給他所出的主意，
And the king answered the people roughly, and forsook the old men's counsel that they gave him;

12:14    照著少年人所出的主意對民說，我父親使你們負重軛，我必使你們負更重的軛。我父親用鞭子責打你們，我要用蠍子鞭責打你們。
And spake to them after the counsel of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, and I will add to your yoke: my father also chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

12:15    王不肯依從百姓，這事乃出於耶和華，為要應驗他藉示羅人亞希雅對尼八的兒子耶羅波安所說的話。
Wherefore the king hearkened not unto the people; for the cause was from the LORD, that he might perform his saying, which the LORD spake by Ahijah the Shilonite unto Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

12:16    以色列眾民見王不依從他們，就對王說，我們與大衛有什麼分兒呢。與耶西的兒子並沒有關涉。以色列人哪，各回各家去吧。大衛家阿，自己顧自己吧。於是，以色列人都回自己家裡去了，
So when all Israel saw that the king hearkened not unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? neither have we inheritance in the son of Jesse: to your tents, O Israel: now see to thine own house, David. So Israel departed unto their tents.

12:17    惟獨住猶大城邑的以色列人，羅波安仍作他們的王。
But as for the children of Israel which dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

12:18    羅波安王差遣掌管服苦之人的亞多蘭往以色列人那裡去，以色列人就用石頭打死他。羅波安王急忙上車，逃回耶路撒冷去了。
Then king Rehoboam sent Adoram, who was over the tribute; and all Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. Therefore king Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.

12:19    這樣，以色列人背叛大衛家，直到今日。
So Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.

12:20    以色列眾人聽見耶羅波安回來了，就打發人去請他到會眾面前，立他作以色列眾人的王。除了猶大支派以外，沒有順從大衛家的。
And it came to pass, when all Israel heard that Jeroboam was come again, that they sent and called him unto the congregation, and made him king over all Israel: there was none that followed the house of David, but the tribe of Judah only.

12:21    羅波安來到耶路撒冷，招聚猶大全家和便雅憫支派的人共十八萬，都是挑選的戰士，要與以色列家爭戰，好將國奪回，再歸所羅門的兒子羅波安。
And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he assembled all the house of Judah, with the tribe of Benjamin, an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men, which were warriors, to fight against the house of Israel, to bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam the son of Solomon.

12:22    但神的話臨到神人示瑪雅，說，
But the word of God came unto Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

12:23    你去告訴所羅門的兒子猶大王羅波安和猶大，便雅憫全家，並其餘的民說，
Speak unto Rehoboam, the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and unto all the house of Judah and Benjamin, and to the remnant of the people, saying,

12:24    耶和華如此說，你們不可上去與你們的弟兄以色列人爭戰。各歸各家去吧。因為這事出於我。眾人就聽從耶和華的話，遵著耶和華的命回去了。
Thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren the children of Israel: return every man to his house; for this thing is from me. They hearkened therefore to the word of the LORD, and returned to depart, according to the word of the LORD.

12:25    耶羅波安在以法蓮山地建築示劍，就住在其中。又從示劍出去，建築毗努伊勒。
Then Jeroboam built Shechem in mount Ephraim, and dwelt therein; and went out from thence, and built Penuel.

12:26    耶羅波安心裡說，恐怕這國仍歸大衛家。
And Jeroboam said in his heart, Now shall the kingdom return to the house of David:

12:27    這民若上耶路撒冷去，在耶和華的殿裡獻祭，他們的心必歸向他們的主猶大王羅波安，就把我殺了，仍歸猶大王羅波安。
If this people go up to do sacrifice in the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, then shall the heart of this people turn again unto their lord, even unto Rehoboam king of Judah, and they shall kill me, and go again to Rehoboam king of Judah.

12:28    耶羅波安王就籌劃定妥，鑄造了兩個金牛犢，對眾民說，以色列人哪，你們上耶路撒冷去實在是難。這就是領你們出埃及地的神。
Whereupon the king took counsel, and made two calves of gold, and said unto them, It is too much for you to go up to Jerusalem: behold thy gods, O Israel, which brought thee up out of the land of Egypt.

12:29    他就把牛犢一隻安在伯特利，一隻安在但。
And he set the one in Bethel, and the other put he in Dan.

12:30    這事叫百姓陷在罪裡，因為他們往但去拜那牛犢。
And this thing became a sin: for the people went to worship before the one, even unto Dan.

12:31    耶羅波安在邱壇那裡建殿，將那不屬利未人的凡民立為祭司。
And he made an house of high places, and made priests of the lowest of the people, which were not of the sons of Levi.

12:32    耶羅波安定八月十五日為節期，像在猶大的節期一樣，自己上壇獻祭。他在伯特利也這樣向他所鑄的牛犢獻祭，又將立為邱壇的祭司安置在伯特利。
And Jeroboam ordained a feast in the eighth month, on the fifteenth day of the month, like unto the feast that is in Judah, and he offered upon the altar. So did he in Bethel, sacrificing unto the calves that he had made: and he placed in Bethel the priests of the high places which he had made.

12:33    他在八月十五日，就是他私自所定的月日，為以色列人立作節期的日子，在伯特利上壇燒香。
So he offered upon the altar which he had made in Bethel the fifteenth day of the eighth month, even in the month which he had devised of his own heart; and ordained a feast unto the children of Israel: and he offered upon the altar, and burnt incense.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


13:1    那時，有一個神人奉耶和華的命從猶大來到伯特利。耶羅波安正站在壇旁要燒香。
And, behold, there came a man of God out of Judah by the word of the LORD unto Bethel: and Jeroboam stood by the altar to burn incense.

13:2    神人奉耶和華的命向壇呼叫，說，壇哪，壇哪。耶和華如此說，大衛家裡必生一個兒子，名叫約西亞，他必將邱壇的祭司，就是在你上面燒香的，殺在你上面，人的骨頭也必燒在你上面。
And he cried against the altar in the word of the LORD, and said, O altar, altar, thus saith the LORD; Behold, a child shall be born unto the house of David, Josiah by name; and upon thee shall he offer the priests of the high places that burn incense upon thee, and men's bones shall be burnt upon thee.

13:3    當日，神人設個預兆，說，這壇必破裂，壇上的灰必傾撒，這是耶和華說的預兆。
And he gave a sign the same day, saying, This is the sign which the LORD hath spoken; Behold, the altar shall be rent, and the ashes that are upon it shall be poured out.

13:4    耶羅波安王聽見神人向伯特利的壇所呼叫的話，就從壇上伸手，說，拿住他吧。王向神人所伸的手就枯乾了，不能彎回。
And it came to pass, when king Jeroboam heard the saying of the man of God, which had cried against the altar in Bethel, that he put forth his hand from the altar, saying, Lay hold on him. And his hand, which he put forth against him, dried up, so that he could not pull it in again to him.

13:5    壇也破裂了，壇上的灰傾撒了，正如神人奉耶和華的命所設的預兆。
The altar also was rent, and the ashes poured out from the altar, according to the sign which the man of God had given by the word of the LORD.

13:6    王對神人說，請你為我禱告，求耶和華你神的恩典使我的手復原。於是神人祈禱耶和華，王的手就復了原，仍如尋常一樣。
And the king answered and said unto the man of God, Intreat now the face of the LORD thy God, and pray for me, that my hand may be restored me again. And the man of God besought the LORD, and the king's hand was restored him again, and became as it was before.

13:7    王對神人說，請你同我回去吃飯，加添心力，我也必給你賞賜。
And the king said unto the man of God, Come home with me, and refresh thyself, and I will give thee a reward.

13:8    神人對王說，你就是把你的宮一半給我，我也不同你進去，也不在這地方吃飯喝水。
And the man of God said unto the king, If thou wilt give me half thine house, I will not go in with thee, neither will I eat bread nor drink water in this place:

13:9    因為有耶和華的話囑咐我，說不可在伯特利吃飯喝水，也不可從你去的原路回來。
For so was it charged me by the word of the LORD, saying, Eat no bread, nor drink water, nor turn again by the same way that thou camest.

13:10    於是神人從別的路回去，不從伯特利來的原路回去。
So he went another way, and returned not by the way that he came to Bethel.

13:11    有一個老先知住在伯特利，他兒子們來，將神人當日在伯特利所行的一切事和向王所說的話都告訴了父親。
Now there dwelt an old prophet in Bethel; and his sons came and told him all the works that the man of God had done that day in Bethel: the words which he had spoken unto the king, them they told also to their father.

13:12    父親問他們說，神人從哪條路去了呢。兒子們就告訴他。原來他們看見那從猶大來的神人所去的路。
And their father said unto them, What way went he? For his sons had seen what way the man of God went, which came from Judah.

13:13    老先知就吩咐他兒子們說，你們為我備驢。他們備好了驢，他就騎上，
And he said unto his sons, Saddle me the ass. So they saddled him the ass: and he rode thereon,

13:14    去追趕神人，遇見他坐在橡樹底下，就問他說，你是從猶大來的神人不是。他說，是。
And went after the man of God, and found him sitting under an oak: and he said unto him, Art thou the man of God that camest from Judah? And he said, I am.

13:15    老先知對他說，請你同我回家吃飯。
Then he said unto him, Come home with me, and eat bread.

13:16    神人說，我不可同你回去進你的家，也不可在這裡同你吃飯喝水。
And he said, I may not return with thee, nor go in with thee: neither will I eat bread nor drink water with thee in this place:

13:17    因為有耶和華的話囑咐我說，你在那裡不可吃飯喝水，也不可從你去的原路回來。
For it was said to me by the word of the LORD, Thou shalt eat no bread nor drink water there, nor turn again to go by the way that thou camest.

13:18    老先知對他說，我也是先知，和你一樣。有天使奉耶和華的命對我說，你去把他帶回你的家，叫他吃飯喝水。這都是老先知誆哄他。
He said unto him, I am a prophet also as thou art; and an angel spake unto me by the word of the LORD, saying, Bring him back with thee into thine house, that he may eat bread and drink water. But he lied unto him.

13:19    於是神人同老先知回去，在他家裡吃飯喝水。
So he went back with him, and did eat bread in his house, and drank water.

13:20    二人坐席的時候，耶和華的話臨到那帶神人回來的先知，
And it came to pass, as they sat at the table, that the word of the LORD came unto the prophet that brought him back:

13:21    他就對那從猶大來的神人說，耶和華如此說，你既違背耶和華的話，不遵守耶和華你神的命令，
And he cried unto the man of God that came from Judah, saying, Thus saith the LORD, Forasmuch as thou hast disobeyed the mouth of the LORD, and hast not kept the commandment which the LORD thy God commanded thee,

13:22    反倒回來，在耶和華禁止你吃飯喝水的地方吃了喝了，因此你的屍身不得入你列祖的墳墓。
But camest back, and hast eaten bread and drunk water in the place, of the which the Lord did say to thee, Eat no bread, and drink no water; thy carcase shall not come unto the sepulchre of thy fathers.

13:23    吃喝完了，老先知為所帶回來的先知備驢。
And it came to pass, after he had eaten bread, and after he had drunk, that he saddled for him the ass, to wit, for the prophet whom he had brought back.

13:24    他就去了，在路上有個獅子遇見他，將他咬死，屍身倒在路上，驢站在屍身旁邊，獅子也站在屍身旁邊。
And when he was gone, a lion met him by the way, and slew him: and his carcase was cast in the way, and the ass stood by it, the lion also stood by the carcase.

13:25    有人從那裡經過，看見屍身倒在路上，獅子站在屍身旁邊，就來到老先知所住的城裡述說這事。
And, behold, men passed by, and saw the carcase cast in the way, and the lion standing by the carcase: and they came and told it in the city where the old prophet dwelt.

13:26    那帶神人回來的先知聽見這事，就說，這是那違背了耶和華命令的神人，所以耶和華把他交給獅子。獅子抓傷他，咬死他，是應驗耶和華對他說的話。
And when the prophet that brought him back from the way heard thereof, he said, It is the man of God, who was disobedient unto the word of the LORD: therefore the LORD hath delivered him unto the lion, which hath torn him, and slain him, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake unto him.

13:27    老先知就吩咐他兒子們說，你們為我備驢。他們就備了驢。
And he spake to his sons, saying, Saddle me the ass. And they saddled him.

13:28    他去了，看見神人的屍身倒在路上，驢和獅子站在屍身旁邊，獅子卻沒有吃屍身，也沒有抓傷驢。
And he went and found his carcase cast in the way, and the ass and the lion standing by the carcase: the lion had not eaten the carcase, nor torn the ass.

13:29    老先知就把神人的屍身馱在驢上，帶回自己的城裡，要哀哭他，葬埋他。
And the prophet took up the carcase of the man of God, and laid it upon the ass, and brought it back: and the old prophet came to the city, to mourn and to bury him.



13:30    就把他的屍身葬在自己的墳墓裡，哀哭他，說，哀哉。我兄阿。
And he laid his carcase in his own grave; and they mourned over him, saying, Alas, my brother!

13:31    安葬之後，老先知對他兒子們說，我死了，你們要葬我在神人的墳墓裡，使我的屍骨靠近他的屍骨，
And it came to pass, after he had buried him, that he spake to his sons, saying, When I am dead, then bury me in the sepulchre wherein the man of God is buried; lay my bones beside his bones:

13:32    因為他奉耶和華的命，指著伯特利的壇，和撒馬利亞各城有邱壇之殿所說的話必定應驗。
For the saying which he cried by the word of the LORD against the altar in Bethel, and against all the houses of the high places which are in the cities of Samaria, shall surely come to pass.

13:33    這事以後，耶羅波安仍不離開他的惡道，將凡民立為邱壇的祭司。凡願意的，他都分別為聖，立為邱壇的祭司。
After this thing Jeroboam returned not from his evil way, but made again of the lowest of the people priests of the high places: whosoever would, he consecrated him, and he became one of the priests of the high places.

13:34    這事叫耶羅波安的家陷在罪裡，甚至他的家從地上除滅了。
And this thing became sin unto the house of Jeroboam, even to cut it off, and to destroy it from off the face of the earth.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


14:1    那時，耶羅波安的兒子亞比雅病了。
At that time Abijah the son of Jeroboam fell sick.

14:2    耶羅波安對他的妻說，你可以起來改裝，使人不知道你是耶羅波安的妻，往示羅去，在那裡有先知亞希雅。他曾告訴我說，你必作這民的王。
And Jeroboam said to his wife, Arise, I pray thee, and disguise thyself, that thou be not known to be the wife of Jeroboam; and get thee to Shiloh: behold, there is Ahijah the prophet, which told me that I should be king over this people.



14:3    現在你要帶十個餅，與幾個薄餅，和一瓶蜜去見他，他必告訴你兒子將要怎樣。
And take with thee ten loaves, and cracknels, and a cruse of honey, and go to him: he shall tell thee what shall become of the child.

14:4    耶羅波安的妻就這樣行，起身往示羅去，到了亞希雅的家。亞希雅因年紀老邁，眼目發直，不能看見。
And Jeroboam's wife did so, and arose, and went to Shiloh, and came to the house of Ahijah. But Ahijah could not see; for his eyes were set by reason of his age.

14:5    耶和華先曉諭亞希雅說，耶羅波安的妻要來問你，因她兒子病了，你當如此如此告訴她。她進來的時候必裝作別的婦人。
And the LORD said unto Ahijah, Behold, the wife of Jeroboam cometh to ask a thing of thee for her son; for he is sick: thus and thus shalt thou say unto her: for it shall be, when she cometh in, that she shall feign herself to be another woman.

14:6    她剛進門，亞希雅聽見她腳步的響聲，就說，耶羅波安的妻，進來吧。你為何裝作別的婦人呢。我奉差遣將凶事告訴你。
And it was so, when Ahijah heard the sound of her feet, as she came in at the door, that he said, Come in, thou wife of Jeroboam; why feignest thou thyself to be another? for I am sent to thee with heavy tidings.

14:7    你回去告訴耶羅波安說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，我從民中將你高舉，立你作我民以色列的君，
Go, tell Jeroboam, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Forasmuch as I exalted thee from among the people, and made thee prince over my people Israel,

14:8    將國從大衛家奪回賜給你。你卻不效法我僕人大衛，遵守我的誡命，一心順從我，行我眼中看為正的事。
And rent the kingdom away from the house of David, and gave it thee: and yet thou hast not been as my servant David, who kept my commandments, and who followed me with all his heart, to do that only which was right in mine eyes;

14:9    你竟行惡，比那在你以先的更甚，為自己立了別神，鑄了偶像，惹我發怒，將我丟在背後。
But hast done evil above all that were before thee: for thou hast gone and made thee other gods, and molten images, to provoke me to anger, and hast cast me behind thy back:

14:10    因此，我必使災禍臨到耶羅波安的家，將屬耶羅波安的男丁，無論困住的，自由的都從以色列中剪除，必除盡耶羅波安的家，如人除盡糞土一般。
Therefore, behold, I will bring evil upon the house of Jeroboam, and will cut off from Jeroboam him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel, and will take away the remnant of the house of Jeroboam, as a man taketh away dung, till it be all gone.

14:11    凡屬耶羅波安的人，死在城中的必被狗吃，死在田野的必被空中的鳥吃。這是耶和華說的。
Him that dieth of Jeroboam in the city shall the dogs eat; and him that dieth in the field shall the fowls of the air eat: for the LORD hath spoken it.

14:12    所以你起身回家去吧。你的腳一進城，你兒子就必死了。
Arise thou therefore, get thee to thine own house: and when thy feet enter into the city, the child shall die.

14:13    以色列眾人必為他哀哭，將他葬埋。凡屬耶羅波安的人，惟有他得入墳墓。因為在耶羅波安的家中，只有他向耶和華以色列的神顯出善行。
And all Israel shall mourn for him, and bury him: for he only of Jeroboam shall come to the grave, because in him there is found some good thing toward the LORD God of Israel in the house of Jeroboam.

14:14    耶和華必另立一王治理以色列。到了日期，他必剪除耶羅波安的家。那日期已經到了。
Moreover the LORD shall raise him up a king over Israel, who shall cut off the house of Jeroboam that day: but what? even now.

14:15    耶和華必擊打以色列人，使他們搖動，像水中的蘆葦一般。又將他們從耶和華賜給他們列祖的美地上拔出來，分散在大河那邊。因為他們作木偶，惹耶和華髮怒。
For the LORD shall smite Israel, as a reed is shaken in the water, and he shall root up Israel out of this good land, which he gave to their fathers, and shall scatter them beyond the river, because they have made their groves, provoking the LORD to anger.

14:16    因耶羅波安所犯的罪，又使以色列人陷在罪裡，耶和華必將以色列人交給仇敵。
And he shall give Israel up because of the sins of Jeroboam, who did sin, and who made Israel to sin.

14:17    耶羅波安的妻起身回去，到了得撒，剛到門檻，兒子就死了。
And Jeroboam's wife arose, and departed, and came to Tirzah: and when she came to the threshold of the door, the child died;

14:18    以色列眾人將他葬埋，為他哀哭，正如耶和華藉他僕人先知亞希雅所說的話。
And they buried him; and all Israel mourned for him, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by the hand of his servant Ahijah the prophet.

14:19    耶羅波安其餘的事，他怎樣爭戰，怎樣作王，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, how he warred, and how he reigned, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

14:20    耶羅波安作王二十二年，就與他列祖同睡。他兒子拿答接續他作王。
And the days which Jeroboam reigned were two and twenty years: and he slept with his fathers, and Nadab his son reigned in his stead.

14:21    所羅門的兒子羅波安作猶大王。他登基的時候年四十一歲，在耶路撒冷，就是耶和華從以色列眾支派中所選擇立他名的城，作王十七年。羅波安的母親名叫拿瑪，是亞捫人。
And Rehoboam the son of Solomon reigned in Judah. Rehoboam was forty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD did choose out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his mother's name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

14:22    猶大人行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，犯罪觸動他的憤恨，比他們列祖更甚。
And Judah did evil in the sight of the LORD, and they provoked him to jealousy with their sins which they had committed, above all that their fathers had done.

14:23    因為他們在各高岡上，各青翠樹下築壇，立柱像和木偶。
For they also built them high places, and images, and groves, on every high hill, and under every green tree.

14:24    國中也有孌童。猶大人效法耶和華在以色列人面前所趕出的外邦人，行一切可憎惡的事。
And there were also sodomites in the land: and they did according to all the abominations of the nations which the LORD cast out before the children of Israel.

14:25    羅波安王第五年，埃及王示撒上來攻取耶路撒冷，
And it came to pass in the fifth year of king Rehoboam, that Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem:

14:26    奪了耶和華殿和王宮裡的寶物，盡都帶走，又奪去所羅門製造的金盾牌。
And he took away the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house; he even took away all: and he took away all the shields of gold which Solomon had made.

14:27    羅波安王制造銅盾牌代替那金盾牌，交給守王宮門的護衛長看守。
And king Rehoboam made in their stead brasen shields, and committed them unto the hands of the chief of the guard, which kept the door of the king's house.

14:28    王每逢進耶和華的殿，護衛兵就拿這盾牌，隨後仍將盾牌送回，放在護衛房。
And it was so, when the king went into the house of the LORD, that the guard bare them, and brought them back into the guard chamber.

14:29    羅波安其餘的事，凡他所行的，都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Rehoboam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

14:30    羅波安與耶羅波安時常爭戰。
And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all their days.

14:31    羅波安與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他母親名叫拿瑪，是亞捫人。他兒子亞比央（又名亞比雅）接續他作王。
And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And his mother's name was Naamah an Ammonitess. And Abijam his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


15:1    尼八的兒子耶羅波安王十八年，亞比央登基作猶大王，
Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam the son of Nebat reigned Abijam over Judah.

15:2    在耶路撒冷作王三年。他母親名叫瑪迦，是押沙龍的女兒。
Three years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

15:3    亞比央行他父親在他以前所行的一切惡，他的心不像他祖大衛的心，誠誠實實地順服耶和華他的神。
And he walked in all the sins of his father, which he had done before him: and his heart was not perfect with the LORD his God, as the heart of David his father.

15:4    然而耶和華他的神因大衛的緣故，仍使他在耶路撒冷有燈光，叫他兒子接續他作王，堅立耶路撒冷。
Nevertheless for David's sake did the LORD his God give him a lamp in Jerusalem, to set up his son after him, and to establish Jerusalem:

15:5    因為大衛除了赫人烏利亞那件事，都是行耶和華眼中看為正的事，一生沒有違背耶和華一切所吩咐的。
Because David did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD, and turned not aside from any thing that he commanded him all the days of his life, save only in the matter of Uriah the Hittite.

15:6    羅波安在世的日子常與耶羅波安爭戰。
And there was war between Rehoboam and Jeroboam all the days of his life.

15:7    亞比央其餘的事，凡他所行的，都寫在猶大列王記上。亞比央常與耶羅波安爭戰。
Now the rest of the acts of Abijam, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? And there was war between Abijam and Jeroboam.

15:8    亞比央與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛的城裡。他兒子亞撒接續他作王。
And Abijam slept with his fathers; and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead.

15:9    以色列王耶羅波安二十年，亞撒登基作猶大王，
And in the twentieth year of Jeroboam king of Israel reigned Asa over Judah.

15:10    在耶路撒冷作王四十一年。他祖母名叫瑪迦，是押沙龍的女兒。
And forty and one years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Maachah, the daughter of Abishalom.

15:11    亞撒效法他祖大衛行耶和華眼中看為正的事，
And Asa did that which was right in the eyes of the LORD, as did David his father.

15:12    從國中除去孌童，又除掉他列祖所造的一切偶像。
And he took away the sodomites out of the land, and removed all the idols that his fathers had made.

15:13    並且貶了他祖母瑪迦太后的位，因她造了可憎的偶像亞舍拉。亞撒砍下她的偶像，燒在汲淪溪邊，
And also Maachah his mother, even her he removed from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove; and Asa destroyed her idol, and burnt it by the brook Kidron.

15:14    只是邱壇還沒有廢去。亞撒一生卻向耶和華存誠實的心。
But the high places were not removed: nevertheless Asa's heart was perfect with the LORD all his days.

15:15    亞撒將他父親所分別為聖，與自己所分別為聖的金銀和器皿，都奉到耶和華的殿裡。
And he brought in the things which his father had dedicated, and the things which himself had dedicated, into the house of the LORD, silver, and gold, and vessels.



15:16    亞撒和以色列王巴沙在世的日子常常爭戰。
And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.

15:17    以色列王巴沙上來要攻擊猶大，修築拉瑪，不許人從猶大王亞撒那裡出入。
And Baasha king of Israel went up against Judah, and built Ramah, that he might not suffer any to go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

15:18    於是亞撒將耶和華殿和王宮府庫裡所剩下的金銀都交在他臣僕手中，打發他們往住大馬士革的亞蘭王希旬的孫子，他伯利們的兒子便哈達那裡去，
Then Asa took all the silver and the gold that were left in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and delivered them into the hand of his servants: and king Asa sent them to Benhadad, the son of Tabrimon, the son of Hezion, king of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

15:19    說，你父曾與我父立約，我與你也要立約。現在我將金銀送你為禮物，求你廢掉你與以色列王巴沙所立的約，使他離開我。
There is a league between me and thee, and between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent unto thee a present of silver and gold; come and break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

15:20    便哈達聽從亞撒王的話，派軍長去攻擊以色列的城邑。他們就攻破以雲，但，亞伯伯瑪迦，基尼烈全境，拿弗他利全境。
So Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of the hosts which he had against the cities of Israel, and smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abelbethmaachah, and all Cinneroth, with all the land of Naphtali.

15:21    巴沙聽見，就停工不修築拉瑪了，仍住在得撒。
And it came to pass, when Baasha heard thereof, that he left off building of Ramah, and dwelt in Tirzah.

15:22    於是亞撒王宣告猶大眾人，不準一個推辭，吩咐他們將巴沙修築拉瑪所用的石頭，木頭都運去，用以修築便雅憫的迦巴和米斯巴。
Then king Asa made a proclamation throughout all Judah; none was exempted: and they took away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha had builded; and king Asa built with them Geba of Benjamin, and Mizpah.

15:23    亞撒其餘的事，凡他所行的，並他的勇力與他所建築的城邑，都寫在猶大列王記上。亞撒年老的時候，腳上有病。
The rest of all the acts of Asa, and all his might, and all that he did, and the cities which he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah? Nevertheless in the time of his old age he was diseased in his feet.

15:24    亞撒與他列祖同睡，葬在他祖大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子約沙法接續他作王。
And Asa slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead.

15:25    猶大王亞撒第二年，耶羅波安的兒子拿答登基作以色列王共二年，
And Nadab the son of Jeroboam began to reign over Israel in the second year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned over Israel two years.

15:26    拿答行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，行他父親所行的，犯他父親使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.

15:27    以薩迦人亞希雅的兒子巴沙背叛拿答，在非利士的基比頓殺了他。那時拿答和以色列眾人正圍困基比頓。
And Baasha the son of Ahijah, of the house of Issachar, conspired against him; and Baasha smote him at Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines; for Nadab and all Israel laid siege to Gibbethon.

15:28    在猶大王亞撒第三年巴沙殺了他，篡了他的位。
Even in the third year of Asa king of Judah did Baasha slay him, and reigned in his stead.

15:29    巴沙一作王就殺了耶羅波安的全家，凡有氣息的沒有留下一個，都滅盡了，正應驗耶和華藉他僕人示羅人亞希雅所說的話。
And it came to pass, when he reigned, that he smote all the house of Jeroboam; he left not to Jeroboam any that breathed, until he had destroyed him, according unto the saying of the LORD, which he spake by his servant Ahijah the Shilonite:

15:30    這是因為耶羅波安所犯的罪使以色列人陷在罪裡，惹動耶和華以色列神的怒氣。
Because of the sins of Jeroboam which he sinned, and which he made Israel sin, by his provocation wherewith he provoked the LORD God of Israel to anger.

15:31    拿答其餘的事，凡他所行的，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Nadab, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

15:32    亞撒和以色列王巴沙在世的日子常常爭戰。
And there was war between Asa and Baasha king of Israel all their days.

15:33    猶大王亞撒第三年，亞希雅的兒子巴沙在得撒登基作以色列眾人的王共二十四年。
In the third year of Asa king of Judah began Baasha the son of Ahijah to reign over all Israel in Tirzah, twenty and four years.

15:34    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，行耶羅波安所行的道，犯他使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


16:1    耶和華的話臨到哈拿尼的兒子耶戶，責備巴沙說，
Then the word of the LORD came to Jehu the son of Hanani against Baasha, saying,

16:2    我既從塵埃中提拔你，立你作我民以色列的君，你竟行耶羅波安所行的道，使我民以色列陷在罪裡，惹我發怒，
Forasmuch as I exalted thee out of the dust, and made thee prince over my people Israel; and thou hast walked in the way of Jeroboam, and hast made my people Israel to sin, to provoke me to anger with their sins;

16:3    我必除盡你和你的家，使你的家像尼八的兒子耶羅波安的家一樣。
Behold, I will take away the posterity of Baasha, and the posterity of his house; and will make thy house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

16:4    凡屬巴沙的人，死在城中的必被狗吃，死在田野的必被空中的鳥吃。
Him that dieth of Baasha in the city shall the dogs eat; and him that dieth of his in the fields shall the fowls of the air eat.

16:5    巴沙其餘的事，凡他所行的和他的勇力，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Baasha, and what he did, and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

16:6    巴沙與他列祖同睡，葬在得撒。他兒子以拉接續他作王。
So Baasha slept with his fathers, and was buried in Tirzah: and Elah his son reigned in his stead.

16:7    耶和華的話臨到哈拿尼的兒子先知耶戶，責備巴沙和他的家，因他行耶和華眼中看為惡的一切事，以他手所作的惹耶和華髮怒，像耶羅波安的家一樣，又因他殺了耶羅波安的全家。
And also by the hand of the prophet Jehu the son of Hanani came the word of the LORD against Baasha, and against his house, even for all the evil that he did in the sight of the LORD, in provoking him to anger with the work of his hands, in being like the house of Jeroboam; and because he killed him.

16:8    猶大王亞撒二十六年，巴沙的兒子以拉在得撒登基作以色列王共二年。
In the twenty and sixth year of Asa king of Judah began Elah the son of Baasha to reign over Israel in Tirzah, two years.

16:9    有管理他一半戰車的臣子心利背叛他。當他在得撒家宰亞雜家裡喝醉的時候，
And his servant Zimri, captain of half his chariots, conspired against him, as he was in Tirzah, drinking himself drunk in the house of Arza steward of his house in Tirzah.

16:10    心利就進去殺了他，篡了他的位。這是猶大王亞撒二十七年的事。
And Zimri went in and smote him, and killed him, in the twenty and seventh year of Asa king of Judah, and reigned in his stead.

16:11    心利一坐王位就殺了巴沙的全家，連他的親屬，朋友也沒有留下一個男丁。
And it came to pass, when he began to reign, as soon as he sat on his throne, that he slew all the house of Baasha: he left him not one that pisseth against a wall, neither of his kinsfolks, nor of his friends.

16:12    心利這樣滅絕巴沙的全家，正如耶和華藉先知耶戶責備巴沙的話。
Thus did Zimri destroy all the house of Baasha, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake against Baasha by Jehu the prophet,

16:13    這是因巴沙和他兒子以拉的一切罪，就是他們使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪，以虛無的神惹耶和華以色列神的怒氣。
For all the sins of Baasha, and the sins of Elah his son, by which they sinned, and by which they made Israel to sin, in provoking the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities.

16:14    以拉其餘的事，凡他所行的，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Elah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

16:15    猶大王亞撒二十七年，心利在得撒作王七日。那時民正安營圍攻非利士的基比頓。
In the twenty and seventh year of Asa king of Judah did Zimri reign seven days in Tirzah. And the people were encamped against Gibbethon, which belonged to the Philistines.

16:16    民在營中聽說心利背叛，又殺了王，故此以色列眾人當日在營中立元帥暗利作以色列王。
And the people that were encamped heard say, Zimri hath conspired, and hath also slain the king: wherefore all Israel made Omri, the captain of the host, king over Israel that day in the camp.

16:17    暗利率領以色列眾人，從基比頓上去，圍困得撒。
And Omri went up from Gibbethon, and all Israel with him, and they besieged Tirzah.

16:18    心利見城破失，就進了王宮的衛所，放火焚燒宮殿，自焚而死。
And it came to pass, when Zimri saw that the city was taken, that he went into the palace of the king's house, and burnt the king's house over him with fire, and died,

16:19    這是因他犯罪，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，行耶羅波安所行的，犯他使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
For his sins which he sinned in doing evil in the sight of the LORD, in walking in the way of Jeroboam, and in his sin which he did, to make Israel to sin.

16:20    心利其餘的事和他背叛的情形都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Zimri, and his treason that he wrought, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

16:21    那時，以色列民分為兩半，一半隨從基納的兒子提比尼，要立他作王。一半隨從暗利。
Then were the people of Israel divided into two parts: half of the people followed Tibni the son of Ginath, to make him king; and half followed Omri.



16:22    但隨從暗利的民勝過隨從基納的兒子提比尼的民。提比尼死了，暗利就作了王。
But the people that followed Omri prevailed against the people that followed Tibni the son of Ginath: so Tibni died, and Omri reigned.

16:23    猶大王亞撒三十一年，暗利登基作以色列王共十二年。在得撒作王六年。
In the thirty and first year of Asa king of Judah began Omri to reign over Israel, twelve years: six years reigned he in Tirzah.

16:24    暗利用二他連得銀子向撒瑪買了撒馬利亞山，在山上造城，就按著山的原主撒瑪的名，給所造的城起名叫撒馬利亞。
And he bought the hill Samaria of Shemer for two talents of silver, and built on the hill, and called the name of the city which he built, after the name of Shemer, owner of the hill, Samaria.

16:25    暗利行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，比他以前的列王作惡更甚。
But Omri wrought evil in the eyes of the LORD, and did worse than all that were before him.

16:26    因他行了尼八的兒子耶羅波安所行的，犯他使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪，以虛無的神惹耶和華以色列神的怒氣。
For he walked in all the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and in his sin wherewith he made Israel to sin, to provoke the LORD God of Israel to anger with their vanities.

16:27    暗利其餘的事和他所顯出的勇力都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Omri which he did, and his might that he shewed, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

16:28    暗利與他列祖同睡，葬在撒馬利亞。他兒子亞哈接續他作王。
So Omri slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria: and Ahab his son reigned in his stead.

16:29    猶大王亞撒三十八年，暗利的兒子亞哈登基作了以色列王。暗利的兒子亞哈在撒馬利亞作以色列王二十二年。
And in the thirty and eighth year of Asa king of Judah began Ahab the son of Omri to reign over Israel: and Ahab the son of Omri reigned over Israel in Samaria twenty and two years.

16:30    暗利的兒子亞哈行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，比他以前的列王更甚，
And Ahab the son of Omri did evil in the sight of the LORD above all that were before him.

16:31    犯了尼八的兒子耶羅波安所犯的罪。他還以為輕，又娶了西頓王謁巴力的女兒耶洗別為妻，去事奉敬拜巴力，
And it came to pass, as if it had been a light thing for him to walk in the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, that he took to wife Jezebel the daughter of Ethbaal king of the Zidonians, and went and served Baal, and worshipped him.

16:32    在撒馬利亞建造巴力的廟，在廟裡為巴力築壇。
And he reared up an altar for Baal in the house of Baal, which he had built in Samaria.

16:33    亞哈又作亞舍拉，他所行的惹耶和華以色列神的怒氣，比他以前的以色列諸王更甚。
And Ahab made a grove; and Ahab did more to provoke the LORD God of Israel to anger than all the kings of Israel that were before him.

16:34    亞哈在位的時候，有伯特利人希伊勒重修耶利哥城。立根基的時候，喪了長子亞比蘭。安門的時候，喪了幼子西割，正如耶和華藉嫩的兒子約書亞所說的話。
In his days did Hiel the Bethelite build Jericho: he laid the foundation thereof in Abiram his firstborn, and set up the gates thereof in his youngest son Segub, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by Joshua the son of Nun.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


17:1    基列寄居的提斯比人以利亞對亞哈說，我指著所事奉永生耶和華以色列的神起誓，這幾年我若不禱告，必不降露，不下雨。
And Elijah the Tishbite, who was of the inhabitants of Gilead, said unto Ahab, As the LORD God of Israel liveth, before whom I stand, there shall not be dew nor rain these years, but according to my word.

17:2    耶和華的話臨到以利亞說，
And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying,

17:3    你離開這裡往東去，藏在約旦河東邊的基立溪旁。
Get thee hence, and turn thee eastward, and hide thyself by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

17:4    你要喝那溪裡的水，我已吩咐烏鴉在那裡供養你。
And it shall be, that thou shalt drink of the brook; and I have commanded the ravens to feed thee there.

17:5    於是以利亞照著耶和華的話，去住在約旦河東的基立溪旁。
So he went and did according unto the word of the LORD: for he went and dwelt by the brook Cherith, that is before Jordan.

17:6    烏鴉早晚給他叼餅和肉來，他也喝那溪裡的水。
And the ravens brought him bread and flesh in the morning, and bread and flesh in the evening; and he drank of the brook.

17:7    過了些日子，溪水就乾了，因為雨沒有下在地上。
And it came to pass after a while, that the brook dried up, because there had been no rain in the land.

17:8    耶和華的話臨到他說，
And the word of the LORD came unto him, saying,

17:9    你起身往西頓的撒勒法（撒勒法與路加福音四章二十六節同）去，住在那裡。我已吩咐那裡的一個寡婦供養你。
Arise, get thee to Zarephath, which belongeth to Zidon, and dwell there: behold, I have commanded a widow woman there to sustain thee.

17:10    以利亞就起身往撒勒法去。到了城門，見有一個寡婦在那裡撿柴，以利亞呼叫她說，求你用器皿取點水來給我喝。
So he arose and went to Zarephath. And when he came to the gate of the city, behold, the widow woman was there gathering of sticks: and he called to her, and said, Fetch me, I pray thee, a little water in a vessel, that I may drink.

17:11    她去取水的時候，以利亞又呼叫她說，也求你拿點餅來給我。
And as she was going to fetch it, he called to her, and said, Bring me, I pray thee, a morsel of bread in thine hand.

17:12    她說，我指著永生耶和華你的神起誓，我沒有餅，壇內只有一把面，瓶裡只有一點油。我現在找兩根柴，回家要為我和我兒子作餅。我們吃了，死就死吧。
And she said, As the LORD thy God liveth, I have not a cake, but an handful of meal in a barrel, and a little oil in a cruse: and, behold, I am gathering two sticks, that I may go in and dress it for me and my son, that we may eat it, and die.

17:13    以利亞對她說，不要懼怕。可以照你所說的去作吧。只要先為我作一個小餅拿來給我，然後為你和你的兒子作餅。
And Elijah said unto her, Fear not; go and do as thou hast said: but make me thereof a little cake first, and bring it unto me, and after make for thee and for thy son.

17:14    因為耶和華以色列的神如此說，壇內的面必不減少，瓶裡的油必不缺短，直到耶和華使雨降在地上的日子。
For thus saith the LORD God of Israel, The barrel of meal shall not waste, neither shall the cruse of oil fail, until the day that the LORD sendeth rain upon the earth.

17:15    婦人就照以利亞的話去行。她和她家中的人，並以利亞，吃了許多日子。
And she went and did according to the saying of Elijah: and she, and he, and her house, did eat many days.

17:16    壇內的面果不減少，瓶裡的油也不缺短，正如耶和華藉以利亞所說的話。
And the barrel of meal wasted not, neither did the cruse of oil fail, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by Elijah.

17:17    這事以後，作那家主母的婦人，她兒子病了。病得甚重，以致身無氣息。
And it came to pass after these things, that the son of the woman, the mistress of the house, fell sick; and his sickness was so sore, that there was no breath left in him.

17:18    婦人對以利亞說，神人哪，我與你何干。你竟到我這裡來，使神想念我的罪，以致我的兒子死呢。
And she said unto Elijah, What have I to do with thee, O thou man of God? art thou come unto me to call my sin to remembrance, and to slay my son?

17:19    以利亞對她說，把你兒子交給我。以利亞就從婦人懷中將孩子接過來，抱到他所住的樓中，放在自己的床上，
And he said unto her, Give me thy son. And he took him out of her bosom, and carried him up into a loft, where he abode, and laid him upon his own bed.

17:20    就求告耶和華說，耶和華我的神阿，我寄居在這寡婦的家裡，你就降禍與她，使她的兒子死了嗎。
And he cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, hast thou also brought evil upon the widow with whom I sojourn, by slaying her son?

17:21    以利亞三次伏在孩子的身上，求告耶和華說，耶和華我的神阿，求你使這孩子的靈魂仍入他的身體。
And he stretched himself upon the child three times, and cried unto the LORD, and said, O LORD my God, I pray thee, let this child's soul come into him again.

17:22    耶和華應允以利亞的話，孩子的靈魂仍入他的身體，他就活了。
And the LORD heard the voice of Elijah; and the soul of the child came into him again, and he revived.

17:23    以利亞將孩子從樓上抱下來，進屋子交給他母親，說，看哪，你的兒子活了。
And Elijah took the child, and brought him down out of the chamber into the house, and delivered him unto his mother: and Elijah said, See, thy son liveth.

17:24    婦人對以利亞說，現在我知道你是神人，耶和華藉你口所說的話是真的。
And the woman said to Elijah, Now by this I know that thou art a man of God, and that the word of the LORD in thy mouth is truth.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


18:1    過了許久，到第三年，耶和華的話臨到以利亞說，你去，使亞哈得見你。我要降雨在地上。
And it came to pass after many days, that the word of the LORD came to Elijah in the third year, saying, Go, shew thyself unto Ahab; and I will send rain upon the earth.

18:2    以利亞就去，要使亞哈得見他。那時，撒馬利亞有大饑荒。
And Elijah went to shew himself unto Ahab. And there was a sore famine in Samaria.

18:3    亞哈將他的家宰俄巴底召了來。俄巴底甚是敬畏耶和華，
And Ahab called Obadiah, which was the governor of his house. (Now Obadiah feared the LORD greatly:

18:4    耶洗別殺耶和華眾先知的時候，俄巴底將一百個先知藏了，每五十人藏在一個洞裡，拿餅和水供養他們。
For it was so, when Jezebel cut off the prophets of the LORD, that Obadiah took an hundred prophets, and hid them by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water.)

18:5    亞哈對俄巴底說，我們走遍這地，到一切水泉旁和一切溪邊，或者找得著青草，可以救活騾馬，免得絕了牲畜。
And Ahab said unto Obadiah, Go into the land, unto all fountains of water, and unto all brooks: peradventure we may find grass to save the horses and mules alive, that we lose not all the beasts.

18:6    於是二人分地遊行，亞哈獨走一路，俄巴底獨走一路。
So they divided the land between them to pass throughout it: Ahab went one way by himself, and Obadiah went another way by himself.

18:7    俄巴底在路上恰與以利亞相遇，俄巴底認出他來，就俯伏在地，說，你是我主以利亞不是。
And as Obadiah was in the way, behold, Elijah met him: and he knew him, and fell on his face, and said, Art thou that my lord Elijah?

18:8    回答說，是。你去告訴你主人說，以利亞在這裡。
And he answered him, I am: go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here.

18:9    俄巴底說，僕人有什麼罪，你竟要將我交在亞哈手裡，使他殺我呢。
And he said, What have I sinned, that thou wouldest deliver thy servant into the hand of Ahab, to slay me?

18:10    我指著永生耶和華你的神起誓，無論哪一邦哪一國，我主都打發人去找你。若說你沒有在那裡，就必使那邦那國的人起誓說，實在是找不著你。
As the LORD thy God liveth, there is no nation or kingdom, whither my lord hath not sent to seek thee: and when they said, He is not there; he took an oath of the kingdom and nation, that they found thee not.

18:11    現在你說，要去告訴你主人說，以利亞在這裡。
And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here.

18:12    恐怕我一離開你，耶和華的靈就提你到我所不知道的地方去。這樣，我去告訴亞哈，他若找不著你，就必殺我。僕人卻是自幼敬畏耶和華的。
And it shall come to pass, as soon as I am gone from thee, that the Spirit of the LORD shall carry thee whither I know not; and so when I come and tell Ahab, and he cannot find thee, he shall slay me: but I thy servant fear the LORD from my youth.

18:13    耶洗別殺耶和華眾先知的時候，我將耶和華的一百個先知藏了，每五十人藏在一個洞裡，拿餅和水供養他們，豈沒有人將這事告訴我主嗎。
Was it not told my lord what I did when Jezebel slew the prophets of the LORD, how I hid an hundred men of the LORD's prophets by fifty in a cave, and fed them with bread and water?

18:14    現在你說，要去告訴你主人說，以利亞在這裡，他必殺我。
And now thou sayest, Go, tell thy lord, Behold, Elijah is here: and he shall slay me.

18:15    以利亞說，我指著所事奉永生的萬軍之耶和華起誓，我今日必使亞哈得見我。
And Elijah said, As the LORD of hosts liveth, before whom I stand, I will surely shew myself unto him to day.

18:16    於是俄巴底去迎著亞哈，告訴他。亞哈就去迎著以利亞。
So Obadiah went to meet Ahab, and told him: and Ahab went to meet Elijah.

18:17    亞哈見了以利亞，便說，使以色列遭災的就是你嗎。
And it came to pass, when Ahab saw Elijah, that Ahab said unto him, Art thou he that troubleth Israel?

18:18    以利亞說，使以色列遭災的不是我，乃是你和你父家。因為你們離棄耶和華的誡命，去隨從巴力。
And he answered, I have not troubled Israel; but thou, and thy father's house, in that ye have forsaken the commandments of the LORD, and thou hast followed Baalim.

18:19    現在你當差遣人，招聚以色列眾人和事奉巴力的那四百五十個先知，並耶洗別所供養事奉亞舍拉的那四百個先知，使他們都上迦密山去見我。
Now therefore send, and gather to me all Israel unto mount Carmel, and the prophets of Baal four hundred and fifty, and the prophets of the groves four hundred, which eat at Jezebel's table.

18:20    亞哈就差遣人招聚以色列眾人和先知都上迦密山。
So Ahab sent unto all the children of Israel, and gathered the prophets together unto mount Carmel.

18:21    以利亞前來對眾民說，你們心持兩意要到幾時呢。若耶和華是神，就當順從耶和華。若巴力是神，就當順從巴力。眾民一言不答。
And Elijah came unto all the people, and said, How long halt ye between two opinions? if the LORD be God, follow him: but if Baal, then follow him. And the people answered him not a word.

18:22    以利亞對眾民說，作耶和華先知的只剩下我一個人。巴力的先知卻有四百五十個人。
Then said Elijah unto the people, I, even I only, remain a prophet of the LORD; but Baal's prophets are four hundred and fifty men.

18:23    當給我們兩隻牛犢，巴力的先知可以挑選一隻，切成塊子，放在柴上，不要點火。我也預備一隻牛犢放在柴上，也不點火。
Let them therefore give us two bullocks; and let them choose one bullock for themselves, and cut it in pieces, and lay it on wood, and put no fire under: and I will dress the other bullock, and lay it on wood, and put no fire under:

18:24    你們求告你們神的名，我也求告耶和華的名。那降火顯應的神，就是神。眾民回答說，這話甚好。
And call ye on the name of your gods, and I will call on the name of the LORD: and the God that answereth by fire, let him be God. And all the people answered and said, It is well spoken.

18:25    以利亞對巴力的先知說，你們既是人多，當先挑選一隻牛犢，預備好了，就求告你們神的名，卻不要點火。
And Elijah said unto the prophets of Baal, Choose you one bullock for yourselves, and dress it first; for ye are many; and call on the name of your gods, but put no fire under.

18:26    他們將所得的牛犢預備好了，從早晨到午間，求告巴力的名說，巴力阿，求你應允我們。卻沒有聲音，沒有應允的。他們在所築的壇四圍踴跳。
And they took the bullock which was given them, and they dressed it, and called on the name of Baal from morning even until noon, saying, O Baal, hear us. But there was no voice, nor any that answered. And they leaped upon the altar which was made.

18:27    到了正午，以利亞嬉笑他們，說，大聲求告吧。因為他是神，他或默想，或走到一邊，或行路，或睡覺，你們當叫醒他。
And it came to pass at noon, that Elijah mocked them, and said, Cry aloud: for he is a god; either he is talking, or he is pursuing, or he is in a journey, or peradventure he sleepeth, and must be awaked.

18:28    他們大聲求告，按著他們的規矩，用刀槍自割，自刺，直到身體流血。
And they cried aloud, and cut themselves after their manner with knives and lancets, till the blood gushed out upon them.

18:29    從午後直到獻晚祭的時候，他們狂呼亂叫，卻沒有聲音，沒有應允的，也沒有理會的。
And it came to pass, when midday was past, and they prophesied until the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that there was neither voice, nor any to answer, nor any that regarded.

18:30    以利亞對眾民說，你們到我這裡來。眾民就到他那裡。他便重修已經毀壞耶和華的壇。
And Elijah said unto all the people, Come near unto me. And all the people came near unto him. And he repaired the altar of the LORD that was broken down.

18:31    以利亞照雅各子孫支派的數目，取了十二塊石頭（耶和華的話曾臨到雅各說，你的名要叫以色列），
And Elijah took twelve stones, according to the number of the tribes of the sons of Jacob, unto whom the word of the LORD came, saying, Israel shall be thy name:

18:32    用這些石頭為耶和華的名築一座壇，在壇的四圍挖溝，可容谷種二細亞，
And with the stones he built an altar in the name of the LORD: and he made a trench about the altar, as great as would contain two measures of seed.

18:33    又在壇上擺好了柴，把牛犢切成塊子放在柴上，對眾人說，你們用四個桶盛滿水，倒在燔祭和柴上。
And he put the wood in order, and cut the bullock in pieces, and laid him on the wood, and said, Fill four barrels with water, and pour it on the burnt sacrifice, and on the wood.

18:34    又說，倒第二次。他們就倒第二次。又說，倒第三次。他們就倒第三次。
And he said, Do it the second time. And they did it the second time. And he said, Do it the third time. And they did it the third time.

18:35    水流在壇的四圍，溝裡也滿了水。
And the water ran round about the altar; and he filled the trench also with water.

18:36    到了獻晚祭的時候，先知以利亞近前來，說，亞伯拉罕，以撒，以色列的神，耶和華阿，求你今日使人知道你是以色列的神，也知道我是你的僕人，又是奉你的命行這一切事。
And it came to pass at the time of the offering of the evening sacrifice, that Elijah the prophet came near, and said, LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, let it be known this day that thou art God in Israel, and that I am thy servant, and that I have done all these things at thy word.

18:37    耶和華阿，求你應允我，應允我。使這民知道你耶和華是神，又知道是你叫這民的心迴轉。
Hear me, O LORD, hear me, that this people may know that thou art the LORD God, and that thou hast turned their heart back again.

18:38    於是，耶和華降下火來，燒盡燔祭，木柴，石頭，塵土，又燒乾溝裡的水。
Then the fire of the LORD fell, and consumed the burnt sacrifice, and the wood, and the stones, and the dust, and licked up the water that was in the trench.

18:39    眾民看見了，就俯伏在地，說，耶和華是神。耶和華是神。
And when all the people saw it, they fell on their faces: and they said, The LORD, he is the God; the LORD, he is the God.

18:40    以利亞對他們說，拿住巴力的先知，不容一人逃脫。眾人就拿住他們。以利亞帶他們到基順河邊，在那裡殺了他們。
And Elijah said unto them, Take the prophets of Baal; let not one of them escape. And they took them: and Elijah brought them down to the brook Kishon, and slew them there.

18:41    以利亞對亞哈說，你現在可以上去吃喝，因為有多雨的響聲了。
And Elijah said unto Ahab, Get thee up, eat and drink; for there is a sound of abundance of rain.

18:42    亞哈就上去吃喝。以利亞上了迦密山頂，屈身在地，將臉伏在兩膝之中。
So Ahab went up to eat and to drink. And Elijah went up to the top of Carmel; and he cast himself down upon the earth, and put his face between his knees,

18:43    對僕人說，你上去，向海觀看。僕人就上去觀看，說，沒有什麼。他說，你再去觀看。如此七次。
And said to his servant, Go up now, look toward the sea. And he went up, and looked, and said, There is nothing. And he said, Go again seven times.



18:44    第七次僕人說，我看見有一小片雲從海里上來，不過如人手那樣大。以利亞說，你上去告訴亞哈，當套車下去，免得被雨阻擋。
And it came to pass at the seventh time, that he said, Behold, there ariseth a little cloud out of the sea, like a man's hand. And he said, Go up, say unto Ahab, Prepare thy chariot, and get thee down, that the rain stop thee not.

18:45    霎時間，天因風雲黑暗，降下大雨。亞哈就坐車往耶斯列去了。
And it came to pass in the mean while, that the heaven was black with clouds and wind, and there was a great rain. And Ahab rode, and went to Jezreel.

18:46    耶和華的靈（原文作手）降在以利亞身上，他就束上腰，奔在亞哈前頭，直到耶斯列的城門。
And the hand of the LORD was on Elijah; and he girded up his loins, and ran before Ahab to the entrance of Jezreel.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


19:1    亞哈將以利亞一切所行的和他用刀殺眾先知的事都告訴耶洗別。
And Ahab told Jezebel all that Elijah had done, and withal how he had slain all the prophets with the sword.

19:2    耶洗別就差遣人去見以利亞，告訴他說，明日約在這時候，我若不使你的性命像那些人的性命一樣，願神明重重地降罰與我。
Then Jezebel sent a messenger unto Elijah, saying, So let the gods do to me, and more also, if I make not thy life as the life of one of them by to morrow about this time.

19:3    以利亞見這光景就起來逃命，到了猶大的別是巴，將僕人留在那裡，
And when he saw that, he arose, and went for his life, and came to Beersheba, which belongeth to Judah, and left his servant there.

19:4    自己在曠野走了一日的路程，來到一棵羅騰樹下（羅騰，小樹名，松類。下同），就坐在那裡求死，說，耶和華阿，吧了。求你取我的性命，因為我不勝於我的列祖。
But he himself went a day's journey into the wilderness, and came and sat down under a juniper tree: and he requested for himself that he might die; and said, It is enough; now, O LORD, take away my life; for I am not better than my fathers.

19:5    他就躺在羅騰樹下，睡著了。有一個天使拍他，說，起來吃吧。
And as he lay and slept under a juniper tree, behold, then an angel touched him, and said unto him, Arise and eat.

19:6    他觀看，見頭旁有一瓶水與炭火燒的餅，他就吃了喝了，仍然躺下。
And he looked, and, behold, there was a cake baken on the coals, and a cruse of water at his head. And he did eat and drink, and laid him down again.

19:7    耶和華的使者第二次來拍他，說，起來吃吧。因為你當走的路甚遠。
And the angel of the LORD came again the second time, and touched him, and said, Arise and eat; because the journey is too great for thee.

19:8    他就起來吃了喝了，仗著這飲食的力，走了四十晝夜，到了神的山，就是何烈山。
And he arose, and did eat and drink, and went in the strength of that meat forty days and forty nights unto Horeb the mount of God.

19:9    他在那裡進了一個洞，就住在洞中。耶和華的話臨到他說，以利亞阿，你在這裡作什麼。
And he came thither unto a cave, and lodged there; and, behold, the word of the LORD came to him, and he said unto him, What doest thou here, Elijah?

19:10    他說，我為耶和華萬軍之神大發熱心。因為以色列人背棄了你的約，毀壞了你的壇，用刀殺了你的先知，只剩下我一個人，他們還要尋索我的命。
And he said, I have been very jealous for the LORD God of hosts: for the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.

19:11    耶和華說，你出來站在山上，在我面前。那時耶和華從那裡經過，在他面前有烈風大作，崩山碎石，耶和華卻不在風中。風后地震，耶和華卻不在其中。
And he said, Go forth, and stand upon the mount before the LORD. And, behold, the LORD passed by, and a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and brake in pieces the rocks before the LORD; but the LORD was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but the LORD was not in the earthquake:

19:12    地震後有火，耶和華也不在火中。火後有微小的聲音。
And after the earthquake a fire; but the LORD was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice.

19:13    以利亞聽見，就用外衣蒙上臉，出來站在洞口。有聲音向他說，以利亞阿，你在這裡作什麼。
And it was so, when Elijah heard it, that he wrapped his face in his mantle, and went out, and stood in the entering in of the cave. And, behold, there came a voice unto him, and said, What doest thou here, Elijah?

19:14    他說，我為耶和華萬軍之神大發熱心。因為以色列人背棄了你的約，毀壞了你的壇，用刀殺了你的先知，只剩下我一個人，他們還要尋索我的命。
And he said, I have been very jealous for the LORD God of hosts: because the children of Israel have forsaken thy covenant, thrown down thine altars, and slain thy prophets with the sword; and I, even I only, am left; and they seek my life, to take it away.

19:15    耶和華對他說，你回去，從曠野往大馬士革去。到了那裡，就要膏哈薛作亞蘭王，
And the LORD said unto him, Go, return on thy way to the wilderness of Damascus: and when thou comest, anoint Hazael to be king over Syria:

19:16    又膏寧示的孫子耶戶作以色列王，並膏亞伯米何拉人沙法的兒子以利沙作先知接續你。
And Jehu the son of Nimshi shalt thou anoint to be king over Israel: and Elisha the son of Shaphat of Abelmeholah shalt thou anoint to be prophet in thy room.

19:17    將來躲避哈薛之刀的，必被耶戶所殺。躲避耶戶之刀的，必被以利沙所殺。
And it shall come to pass, that him that escapeth the sword of Hazael shall Jehu slay: and him that escapeth from the sword of Jehu shall Elisha slay.

19:18    但我在以色列人中為自己留下七千人，是未曾向巴力屈膝的，未曾與巴力親嘴的。
Yet I have left me seven thousand in Israel, all the knees which have not bowed unto Baal, and every mouth which hath not kissed him.

19:19    於是，以利亞離開那裡走了，遇見沙法的兒子以利沙耕地。在他前頭有十二對牛，自己趕著第十二對。以利亞到他那裡去，將自己的外衣搭在他身上。
So he departed thence, and found Elisha the son of Shaphat, who was plowing with twelve yoke of oxen before him, and he with the twelfth: and Elijah passed by him, and cast his mantle upon him.

19:20    以利沙就離開牛，跑到以利亞那裡，說，求你容我先與父母親嘴，然後我便跟隨你。以利亞對他說，你回去吧，我向你作了什麼呢。
And he left the oxen, and ran after Elijah, and said, Let me, I pray thee, kiss my father and my mother, and then I will follow thee. And he said unto him, Go back again: for what have I done to thee?

19:21    以利沙就離開他回去，宰了一對牛，用套牛的器具煮肉給民吃，隨後就起身跟隨以利亞，服事他。
And he returned back from him, and took a yoke of oxen, and slew them, and boiled their flesh with the instruments of the oxen, and gave unto the people, and they did eat. Then he arose, and went after Elijah, and ministered unto him.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


20:1    亞蘭王便哈達聚集他的全軍，率領三十二個王，帶著車馬上來圍攻撒馬利亞。
And Benhadad the king of Syria gathered all his host together: and there were thirty and two kings with him, and horses, and chariots; and he went up and besieged Samaria, and warred against it.

20:2    又差遣使者進城見以色列王亞哈，對他說，便哈達如此說，
And he sent messengers to Ahab king of Israel into the city, and said unto him, Thus saith Benhadad,

20:3    你的金銀都要歸我，你妻子兒女中最美的也要歸我。
Thy silver and thy gold is mine; thy wives also and thy children, even the goodliest, are mine.

20:4    以色列王回答說，我主我王阿，可以依著你的話，我與我所有的都歸你。
And the king of Israel answered and said, My lord, O king, according to thy saying, I am thine, and all that I have.

20:5    使者又來說，便哈達如此說，我已差遣人去見你，要你將你的金銀，妻子，兒女都給我。
And the messengers came again, and said, Thus speaketh Benhadad, saying, Although I have sent unto thee, saying, Thou shalt deliver me thy silver, and thy gold, and thy wives, and thy children;

20:6    但明日約在這時候，我還要差遣臣僕到你那裡，搜查你的家和你僕人的家，將你眼中一切所喜愛的都拿了去。
Yet I will send my servants unto thee to morrow about this time, and they shall search thine house, and the houses of thy servants; and it shall be, that whatsoever is pleasant in thine eyes, they shall put it in their hand, and take it away.

20:7    以色列王召了國中的長老來，對他們說，請你們看看，這人是怎樣地謀害我，他先差遣人到我這裡來，要我的妻子，兒女，和金銀，我並沒有推辭他。
Then the king of Israel called all the elders of the land, and said, Mark, I pray you, and see how this man seeketh mischief: for he sent unto me for my wives, and for my children, and for my silver, and for my gold; and I denied him not.

20:8    長老和百姓對王說，不要聽從他，也不要應允他。
And all the elders and all the people said unto him, Hearken not unto him, nor consent.

20:9    故此，以色列王對便哈達的使者說，你們告訴我主我王說，王頭一次差遣人向僕人所要的，僕人都依從。但這次所要的，我不能依從。使者就去回覆便哈達。
Wherefore he said unto the messengers of Benhadad, Tell my lord the king, All that thou didst send for to thy servant at the first I will do: but this thing I may not do. And the messengers departed, and brought him word again.

20:10    便哈達又差遣人去見亞哈說，撒馬利亞的塵土若夠跟從我的人每人捧一捧的，願神明重重地降罰與我。
And Benhadad sent unto him, and said, The gods do so unto me, and more also, if the dust of Samaria shall suffice for handfuls for all the people that follow me.

20:11    以色列王說，你告訴他說，才頂盔貫甲的，休要像摘盔卸甲的誇口。
And the king of Israel answered and said, Tell him, Let not him that girdeth on his harness boast himself as he that putteth it off.

20:12    便哈達和諸王正在帳幕裡喝酒，聽見這話，就對他臣僕說，擺隊吧。他們就擺隊攻城。
And it came to pass, when Ben-hadad heard this message, as he was drinking, he and the kings in the pavilions, that he said unto his servants, Set yourselves in array. And they set themselves in array against the city.

20:13    有一個先知來見以色列王亞哈，說，耶和華如此說，這一大群人你看見了嗎。今日我必將他們交在你手裡，你就知道我是耶和華。
And, behold, there came a prophet unto Ahab king of Israel, saying, Thus saith the LORD, Hast thou seen all this great multitude? behold, I will deliver it into thine hand this day; and thou shalt know that I am the LORD.

20:14    亞哈說，藉著誰呢。他回答說，耶和華說，藉著跟從省長的少年人。亞哈說，要誰率領呢。他說，要你親自率領。
And Ahab said, By whom? And he said, Thus saith the LORD, Even by the young men of the princes of the provinces. Then he said, Who shall order the battle? And he answered, Thou.

20:15    於是亞哈數點跟從省長的少年人，共有二百三十二名，後又數點以色列的眾兵，共有七千名。
Then he numbered the young men of the princes of the provinces, and they were two hundred and thirty two: and after them he numbered all the people, even all the children of Israel, being seven thousand.

20:16    午間，他們就出城。便哈達和幫助他的三十二個王正在帳幕裡痛飲。
And they went out at noon. But Benhadad was drinking himself drunk in the pavilions, he and the kings, the thirty and two kings that helped him.

20:17    跟從省長的少年人先出城。便哈達差遣人去探望，他們回報說，有人從撒馬利亞出來了。
And the young men of the princes of the provinces went out first; and Benhadad sent out, and they told him, saying, There are men come out of Samaria.

20:18    他說，他們若為講和出來，要活捉他們。若為打仗出來，也要活捉他們。
And he said, Whether they be come out for peace, take them alive; or whether they be come out for war, take them alive.

20:19    跟從省長的少年人出城，軍兵跟隨他們。
So these young men of the princes of the provinces came out of the city, and the army which followed them.

20:20    各人遇見敵人就殺。亞蘭人逃跑，以色列人追趕他們。亞蘭王便哈達騎著馬和馬兵一同逃跑。
And they slew every one his man: and the Syrians fled; and Israel pursued them: and Benhadad the king of Syria escaped on an horse with the horsemen.

20:21    以色列王出城攻打車馬，大大擊殺亞蘭人。
And the king of Israel went out, and smote the horses and chariots, and slew the Syrians with a great slaughter.

20:22    那先知來見以色列王，對他說，你當自強，留心怎樣防備。因為到明年這時候，亞蘭王必上來攻擊你。
And the prophet came to the king of Israel, and said unto him, Go, strengthen thyself, and mark, and see what thou doest: for at the return of the year the king of Syria will come up against thee.

20:23    亞蘭王的臣僕對亞蘭王說，以色列人的神是山神，所以他們勝過我們。但在平原與他們打仗，我們必定得勝。
And the servants of the king of Syria said unto him, Their gods are gods of the hills; therefore they were stronger than we; but let us fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they.

20:24    王當這樣行，把諸王革去，派軍長代替他們，
And do this thing, Take the kings away, every man out of his place, and put captains in their rooms:

20:25    又照著王喪失軍兵之數，再招募一軍，馬補馬，車補車，我們在平原與他們打仗，必定得勝。王便聽臣僕的話去行。
And number thee an army, like the army that thou hast lost, horse for horse, and chariot for chariot: and we will fight against them in the plain, and surely we shall be stronger than they. And he hearkened unto their voice, and did so.

20:26    次年，便哈達果然點齊亞蘭人上亞弗去，要與以色列人打仗。
And it came to pass at the return of the year, that Benhadad numbered the Syrians, and went up to Aphek, to fight against Israel.

20:27    以色列人也點齊軍兵，預備食物，迎著亞蘭人出去，對著他們安營，好像兩小群山羊羔。亞蘭人卻滿了地面。
And the children of Israel were numbered, and were all present, and went against them: and the children of Israel pitched before them like two little flocks of kids; but the Syrians filled the country.

20:28    有神人來見以色列王，說，耶和華如此說，亞蘭人既說我耶和華是山神，不是平原的神，所以我必將這一大群人都交在你手中，你們就知道我是耶和華。
And there came a man of God, and spake unto the king of Israel, and said, Thus saith the LORD, Because the Syrians have said, The LORD is God of the hills, but he is not God of the valleys, therefore will I deliver all this great multitude into thine hand, and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

20:29    以色列人與亞蘭人相對安營七日，到第七日兩軍交戰。那一日以色列人殺了亞蘭人步兵十萬，
And they pitched one over against the other seven days. And so it was, that in the seventh day the battle was joined: and the children of Israel slew of the Syrians an hundred thousand footmen in one day.

20:30    其餘的逃入亞弗城。城牆塌倒，壓死剩下的二萬七千人。便哈達也逃入城，藏在嚴密的屋子裡。
But the rest fled to Aphek, into the city; and there a wall fell upon twenty and seven thousand of the men that were left. And Benhadad fled, and came into the city, into an inner chamber.

20:31    他的臣僕對他說，我們聽說以色列王都是仁慈的王，現在我們不如腰束麻布，頭套繩索，出去投降以色列王，或者他存留王的性命。
And his servants said unto him, Behold now, we have heard that the kings of the house of Israel are merciful kings: let us, I pray thee, put sackcloth on our loins, and ropes upon our heads, and go out to the king of Israel: peradventure he will save thy life.

20:32    於是他們腰束麻布，頭套繩索，去見以色列王，說，王的僕人便哈達說，求王存留我的性命。亞哈說，他還活著嗎。他是我的兄弟。
So they girded sackcloth on their loins, and put ropes on their heads, and came to the king of Israel, and said, Thy servant Benhadad saith, I pray thee, let me live. And he said, Is he yet alive? he is my brother.

20:33    這些人留心探出他的口氣來，便急忙就著他的話說，便哈達是王的兄弟。王說，你們去請他來。便哈達出來見王，王就請他上車。
Now the men did diligently observe whether any thing would come from him, and did hastily catch it: and they said, Thy brother Benhadad. Then he said, Go ye, bring him. Then Benhadad came forth to him; and he caused him to come up into the chariot.

20:34    便哈達對王說，我父從你父那裡所奪的城邑，我必歸還。你可以在大馬士革立街市，像我父在撒馬利亞所立的一樣。亞哈說，我照此立約，放你回去，就與他立約，放他去了。
And Ben-hadad said unto him, The cities, which my father took from thy father, I will restore; and thou shalt make streets for thee in Damascus, as my father made in Samaria. Then said Ahab, I will send thee away with this covenant. So he made a covenant with him, and sent him away.

20:35    有先知的一個門徒奉耶和華的命對他的同伴說，你打我吧。那人不肯打他。
And a certain man of the sons of the prophets said unto his neighbour in the word of the LORD, Smite me, I pray thee. And the man refused to smite him.

20:36    他就對那人說，你既不聽從耶和華的話，你一離開我，必有獅子咬死你。那人一離開他，果然遇見獅子，把他咬死了。
Then said he unto him, Because thou hast not obeyed the voice of the LORD, behold, as soon as thou art departed from me, a lion shall slay thee. And as soon as he was departed from him, a lion found him, and slew him.

20:37    先知的門徒又遇見一個人，對他說，你打我吧。那人就打他，將他打傷。
Then he found another man, and said, Smite me, I pray thee. And the man smote him, so that in smiting he wounded him.

20:38    他就去了，用頭巾矇眼，改換面目，在路旁等候王。
So the prophet departed, and waited for the king by the way, and disguised himself with ashes upon his face.

20:39    王從那裡經過，他向王呼叫說，僕人在陣上的時候，有人帶了一個人來，對我說，你看守這人，若把他失了，你的性命必代替他的性命。不然，你必交出一他連得銀子來。
And as the king passed by, he cried unto the king: and he said, Thy servant went out into the midst of the battle; and, behold, a man turned aside, and brought a man unto me, and said, Keep this man: if by any means he be missing, then shall thy life be for his life, or else thou shalt pay a talent of silver.

20:40    僕人正在忙亂之間，那人就不見了。以色列王對他說，你自己定妥了，必照樣判斷你。
And as thy servant was busy here and there, he was gone. And the king of Israel said unto him, So shall thy judgment be; thyself hast decided it.

20:41    他急忙除掉矇眼的頭巾，以色列王就認出他是一個先知。
And he hasted, and took the ashes away from his face; and the king of Israel discerned him that he was of the prophets.

20:42    他對王說，耶和華如此說，因你將我定要滅絕的人放去，你的命就必代替他的命，你的民也必代替他的民。
And he said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Because thou hast let go out of thy hand a man whom I appointed to utter destruction, therefore thy life shall go for his life, and thy people for his people.

20:43    於是以色列王悶悶不樂地回到撒馬利亞，進了他的宮。
And the king of Israel went to his house heavy and displeased, and came to Samaria.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


21:1    這事以後，又有一事。耶斯列人拿伯在耶斯列有隻個葡萄園，靠近撒馬利亞王亞哈的宮。
And it came to pass after these things, that Naboth the Jezreelite had a vineyard, which was in Jezreel, hard by the palace of Ahab king of Samaria.

21:2    亞哈對拿伯說，你將你的葡萄園給我作菜園，因為是靠近我的宮。我就把更好的葡萄園換給你，或是你要銀子，我就按著價值給你。
And Ahab spake unto Naboth, saying, Give me thy vineyard, that I may have it for a garden of herbs, because it is near unto my house: and I will give thee for it a better vineyard than it; or, if it seem good to thee, I will give thee the worth of it in money.

21:3    拿伯對亞哈說，我敬畏耶和華，萬不敢將我先人留下的產業給你。
And Naboth said to Ahab, The LORD forbid it me, that I should give the inheritance of my fathers unto thee.

21:4    亞哈因耶斯列人拿伯說我不敢將我先人留下的產業給你，就悶悶不樂地回宮，躺在床上，轉臉向內，也不吃飯。
And Ahab came into his house heavy and displeased because of the word which Naboth the Jezreelite had spoken to him: for he had said, I will not give thee the inheritance of my fathers. And he laid him down upon his bed, and turned away his face, and would eat no bread.

21:5    王后耶洗別來問他說，你為什麼心裡這樣憂悶，不吃飯呢。
But Jezebel his wife came to him, and said unto him, Why is thy spirit so sad, that thou eatest no bread?

21:6    他回答說，因我向耶斯列人拿伯說，你將你的葡萄園給我，我給你價銀，或是你願意，我就把別的葡萄園換給你。他卻說，我不將我的葡萄園給你。
And he said unto her, Because I spake unto Naboth the Jezreelite, and said unto him, Give me thy vineyard for money; or else, if it please thee, I will give thee another vineyard for it: and he answered, I will not give thee my vineyard.

21:7    王后耶洗別對亞哈說，你現在是治理以色列國不是。只管起來，心裡暢暢快快地吃飯，我必將耶斯列人拿伯的葡萄園給你。
And Jezebel his wife said unto him, Dost thou now govern the kingdom of Israel? arise, and eat bread, and let thine heart be merry: I will give thee the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite.

21:8    於是託亞哈的名寫信，用王的印印上，送給那些與拿伯同城居住的長老貴胄。
So she wrote letters in Ahab's name, and sealed them with his seal, and sent the letters unto the elders and to the nobles that were in his city, dwelling with Naboth.

21:9    信上寫著說，你們當宣告禁食，叫拿伯坐在民間的高位上，
And she wrote in the letters, saying, Proclaim a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people:

21:10    又叫兩個匪徒坐在拿伯對面，作見證告他說，你謗瀆神和王了。隨後就把他拉出去用石頭打死。
And set two men, sons of Belial, before him, to bear witness against him, saying, Thou didst blaspheme God and the king. And then carry him out, and stone him, that he may die.

21:11    那些與拿伯同城居住的長老貴胄得了耶洗別的信，就照信而行，
And the men of his city, even the elders and the nobles who were the inhabitants in his city, did as Jezebel had sent unto them, and as it was written in the letters which she had sent unto them.

21:12    宣告禁食，叫拿伯坐在民間的高位上。
They proclaimed a fast, and set Naboth on high among the people.

21:13    有兩個匪徒來，坐在拿伯的對面，當著眾民作見證告他說，拿伯謗瀆神和王了。眾人就把他拉到城外，用石頭打死。
And there came in two men, children of Belial, and sat before him: and the men of Belial witnessed against him, even against Naboth, in the presence of the people, saying, Naboth did blaspheme God and the king. Then they carried him forth out of the city, and stoned him with stones, that he died.

21:14    於是打發人去見耶洗別，說，拿伯被石頭打死了。
Then they sent to Jezebel, saying, Naboth is stoned, and is dead.

21:15    耶洗別聽見拿伯被石頭打死，就對亞哈說，你起來得耶斯列人拿伯不肯為價銀給你的葡萄園吧。現在他已經死了。
And it came to pass, when Jezebel heard that Naboth was stoned, and was dead, that Jezebel said to Ahab, Arise, take possession of the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, which he refused to give thee for money: for Naboth is not alive, but dead.

21:16    亞哈聽見拿伯死了，就起來，下去要得耶斯列人拿伯的葡萄園。
And it came to pass, when Ahab heard that Naboth was dead, that Ahab rose up to go down to the vineyard of Naboth the Jezreelite, to take possession of it.

21:17    耶和華的話臨到提斯比人以利亞說，
And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,

21:18    你起來，去見住撒馬利亞的以色列王亞哈，他下去要得拿伯的葡萄園，現今正在那園裡。
Arise, go down to meet Ahab king of Israel, which is in Samaria: behold, he is in the vineyard of Naboth, whither he is gone down to possess it.

21:19    你要對他說，耶和華如此說，你殺了人，又得他的產業嗎。又要對他說，耶和華如此說，狗在何處舔拿伯的血，也必在何處舔你的血。
And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith the LORD, Hast thou killed, and also taken possession? And thou shalt speak unto him, saying, Thus saith the LORD, In the place where dogs licked the blood of Naboth shall dogs lick thy blood, even thine.

21:20    亞哈對以利亞說，我仇敵阿，你找到我嗎。他回答說，我找到你了。因為你賣了自己，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事。
And Ahab said to Elijah, Hast thou found me, O mine enemy? And he answered, I have found thee: because thou hast sold thyself to work evil in the sight of the LORD.

21:21    耶和華說，我必使災禍臨到你，將你除盡。凡屬你的男丁，無論困住的，自由的，都從以色列中剪除。
Behold, I will bring evil upon thee, and will take away thy posterity, and will cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel,

21:22    我必使你的家像尼八的兒子耶羅波安的家，又像亞希雅的兒子巴沙的家。因為你惹我發怒，又使以色列人陷在罪裡。
And will make thine house like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah, for the provocation wherewith thou hast provoked me to anger, and made Israel to sin.

21:23    論到耶洗別，耶和華也說，狗在耶斯列的外郭必吃耶洗別的肉。
And of Jezebel also spake the LORD, saying, The dogs shall eat Jezebel by the wall of Jezreel.

21:24    凡屬亞哈的人，死在城中的必被狗吃，死在田野的必被空中的鳥吃。
Him that dieth of Ahab in the city the dogs shall eat; and him that dieth in the field shall the fowls of the air eat.

21:25    （從來沒有像亞哈的，因他自賣，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，受了王后耶洗別的聳動。
But there was none like unto Ahab, which did sell himself to work wickedness in the sight of the LORD, whom Jezebel his wife stirred up.

21:26    就照耶和華在以色列人面前所趕出的亞摩利人，行了最可憎惡的事，信從偶像。）
And he did very abominably in following idols, according to all things as did the Amorites, whom the LORD cast out before the children of Israel.

21:27    亞哈聽見這話，就撕裂衣服，禁食，身穿麻布，睡臥也穿著麻布，並且緩緩而行。
And it came to pass, when Ahab heard those words, that he rent his clothes, and put sackcloth upon his flesh, and fasted, and lay in sackcloth, and went softly.

21:28    耶和華的話臨到提斯比人以利亞說，
And the word of the LORD came to Elijah the Tishbite, saying,

21:29    亞哈在我面前赦樣自卑，你看見了嗎。因他在我面前自卑，他還在世的時候，我不降這禍。到他兒子的時候，我必降這禍與他的家。
Seest thou how Ahab humbleth himself before me? because he humbleth himself before me, I will not bring the evil in his days: but in his son's days will I bring the evil upon his house.




舊約 -- 列王記上(1 Kings) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 22 章 )    　


22:1    亞蘭國和以色列國三年沒有爭戰。
And they continued three years without war between Syria and Israel.

22:2    到第三年，猶大王約沙法下去見以色列王。
And it came to pass in the third year, that Jehoshaphat the king of Judah came down to the king of Israel.

22:3    以色列王對臣僕說，你們不知道基列的拉末是屬我們的嗎。我們豈可靜坐不動，不從亞蘭王手裡奪回來嗎。
And the king of Israel said unto his servants, Know ye that Ramoth in Gilead is ours, and we be still, and take it not out of the hand of the king of Syria?

22:4    亞哈問約沙法說，你肯同我去攻取基列的拉末嗎。約沙法對以色列王說，你我不分彼此，我的民與你的民一樣，我的馬與你的馬一樣。
And he said unto Jehoshaphat, Wilt thou go with me to battle to Ramothgilead? And Jehoshaphat said to the king of Israel, I am as thou art, my people as thy people, my horses as thy horses.

22:5    約沙法對以色列王說，請你先求問耶和華。
And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

22:6    於是以色列王招聚先知，約有四百人，問他們說，我上去攻取基列的拉末可以不可以。他們說，可以上去，因為主必將那城交在王的手裡。
Then the king of Israel gathered the prophets together, about four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall I go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand of the king.

22:7    約沙法說，這裡不是還有耶和華的先知，我們可以求問他嗎。
And Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD besides, that we might enquire of him?

22:8    以色列王對約沙法說，還有一個人，是音拉的兒子米該雅，我們可以託他求問耶和華。只是我恨他。因為他指著我所說的預言，不說吉語，單說凶言。約沙法說，王不必這樣說。
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, Micaiah the son of Imlah, by whom we may enquire of the LORD: but I hate him; for he doth not prophesy good concerning me, but evil. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.

22:9    以色列王就召了一個太監來，說，你快去，將音拉的兒子米該雅召來。
Then the king of Israel called an officer, and said, Hasten hither Micaiah the son of Imlah.

22:10    以色列王和猶大王約沙法在撒馬利亞城門前的空場上，各穿朝服，坐在位上，所有的先知都在他們面前說預言。
And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah sat each on his throne, having put on their robes, in a void place in the entrance of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied before them.

22:11    基拿拿的兒子西底家造了兩個鐵角，說，耶和華如此說，你要用這角牴觸亞蘭人，直到將他們滅盡。
And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah made him horns of iron: and he said, Thus saith the LORD, With these shalt thou push the Syrians, until thou have consumed them.

22:12    所有的先知也都這樣預言說，可以上基列的拉末去，必然得勝，因為耶和華必將那城交在王的手中。
And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the king's hand.

22:13    那去召米該雅的使者對米該雅說。眾先知一口同音地都向王說吉言，你不如與他們說一樣的話，也說吉言。
And the messenger that was gone to call Micaiah spake unto him, saying, Behold now, the words of the prophets declare good unto the king with one mouth: let thy word, I pray thee, be like the word of one of them, and speak that which is good.

22:14    米該雅說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，耶和華對我說什麼，我就說什麼。
And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, what the LORD saith unto me, that will I speak.

22:15    米該雅到王面前，王問他說，米該雅阿，我們上去攻取基列的拉末可以不可以。他回答說，可以上去，必然得勝，耶和華必將那城交在王的手中。
So he came to the king. And the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go against Ramothgilead to battle, or shall we forbear? And he answered him, Go, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand of the king.

22:16    王對他說，我當囑咐你幾次，你才奉耶和華的名向我說實話呢。
And the king said unto him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou tell me nothing but that which is true in the name of the LORD?

22:17    米該雅說，我看見以色列眾民散在山上，如同沒有牧人的羊群一般。耶和華說，這民沒有主人，他們可以平平安安地各歸各家去。
And he said, I saw all Israel scattered upon the hills, as sheep that have not a shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no master: let them return every man to his house in peace.

22:18    以色列王對約沙法說，我豈沒有告訴你，這人指著我所說的預言，不說吉語單說凶言嗎。
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that he would prophesy no good concerning me, but evil?

22:19    米該雅說，你要聽耶和華的話。我看見耶和華坐在寶座上，天上的萬軍侍立在他左右。
And he said, Hear thou therefore the word of the LORD: I saw the LORD sitting on his throne, and all the host of heaven standing by him on his right hand and on his left.

22:20    耶和華說，誰去引誘亞哈上基列的拉末去陣亡呢。這個就這樣說，那個就那樣說。
And the LORD said, Who shall persuade Ahab, that he may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one said on this manner, and another said on that manner.

22:21    隨後有一個神靈出來，站在耶和華面前，說，我去引誘他。
And there came forth a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will persuade him.

22:22    耶和華問他說，你用何法呢。他說，我去，要在他眾先知口中作謊言的靈。耶和華說，這樣，你必能引誘他，你去如此行吧。
And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith? And he said, I will go forth, and I will be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And he said, Thou shalt persuade him, and prevail also: go forth, and do so.

22:23    現在耶和華使謊言的靈入了你這些先知的口，並且耶和華已經命定降禍與你。
Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of all these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil concerning thee.

22:24    基拿拿的兒子西底家前來，打米該雅的臉，說，耶和華的靈從哪裡離開我與你說話呢。
But Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah went near, and smote Micaiah on the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me to speak unto thee?

22:25    米該雅說，你進嚴密的屋子藏躲的那日，就必看見了。
And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see in that day, when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

22:26    以色列王說，將米該雅帶回，交給邑宰亞們和王的兒子約阿施，說
And the king of Israel said, Take Micaiah, and carry him back unto Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son;

22:27    王如此說，把這個人下在監裡，使他受苦，吃不飽喝不足，等候我平平安安地回來。
And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I come in peace.

22:28    米該雅說，你若能平平安安地回來，那就是耶和華沒有藉我說這話了。又說，眾民哪，你們都要聽。
And Micaiah said, If thou return at all in peace, the LORD hath not spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, O people, every one of you.

22:29    以色列王和猶大王約沙法上基列的拉末去了。
So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramothgilead.

22:30    以色列王對約沙法說，我要改裝上陣，你可以仍穿王服。以色列王就改裝上陣。
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and enter into the battle; but put thou on thy robes. And the king of Israel disguised himself, and went into the battle.

22:31    先是亞蘭王吩咐他的三十二個車兵長說，他們的兵將，無論大小，你們都不可與他們爭戰，只要與以色列王爭戰。
But the king of Syria commanded his thirty and two captains that had rule over his chariots, saying, Fight neither with small nor great, save only with the king of Israel.

22:32    車兵長看見約沙法，便說，這必是以色列王。就轉過去與他爭戰，約沙法便呼喊。
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, Surely it is the king of Israel. And they turned aside to fight against him: and Jehoshaphat cried out.

22:33    車兵長見不是以色列王，就轉去不追他了。
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, that they turned back from pursuing him.

22:34    有一人隨便開弓，恰巧射入以色列王的甲縫裡。王對趕車的說，我受了重傷，你轉過車來，拉我出陣吧。
And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness: wherefore he said unto the driver of his chariot, Turn thine hand, and carry me out of the host; for I am wounded.

22:35    那日，陣勢越戰越猛，有人扶王站在車上，抵擋亞蘭人。到晚上，王就死了，血從傷處流在車中。
And the battle increased that day: and the king was stayed up in his chariot against the Syrians, and died at even: and the blood ran out of the wound into the midst of the chariot.

22:36    約在日落的時候，有號令傳遍軍中，說，各歸本城，各歸本地吧。
And there went a proclamation throughout the host about the going down of the sun, saying, Every man to his city, and every man to his own country.

22:37    王既死了，眾人將他送到撒馬利亞，就葬在那裡。
So the king died, and was brought to Samaria; and they buried the king in Samaria.

22:38    又有人把他的車洗在撒馬利亞的池旁（妓女在那裡洗澡），狗來舔他的血，正如耶和華所說的話。
And one washed the chariot in the pool of Samaria; and the dogs licked up his blood; and they washed his armour; according unto the word of the LORD which he spake.

22:39    亞哈其餘的事，凡他所行的和他所修造的象牙宮，並所建築的一切城邑，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Ahab, and all that he did, and the ivory house which he made, and all the cities that he built, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

22:40    亞哈與他列祖同睡。他兒子亞哈謝接續他作王。
So Ahab slept with his fathers; and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.

22:41    以色列王亞哈第四年，亞撒的兒子約沙法登基作了猶大王。
And Jehoshaphat the son of Asa began to reign over Judah in the fourth year of Ahab king of Israel.

22:42    約沙法登基的時候年三十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王二十五年。他母親名叫阿蘇巴，乃示利希的女兒。
Jehoshaphat was thirty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

22:43    約沙法行他父親亞撒所行的道，不偏離左右，行耶和華眼中看為正的事。只是邱壇還沒有廢去，百姓仍在那裡獻祭燒香。
And he walked in all the ways of Asa his father; he turned not aside from it, doing that which was right in the eyes of the LORD: nevertheless the high places were not taken away; for the people offered and burnt incense yet in the high places.

22:44    約沙法與以色列王和好。
And Jehoshaphat made peace with the king of Israel.

22:45    約沙法其餘的事和他所顯出的勇力，並他怎樣爭戰，都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, and his might that he shewed, and how he warred, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

22:46    約沙法將他父親亞撒在世所剩下的孌童都從國中除去了。
And the remnant of the sodomites, which remained in the days of his father Asa, he took out of the land.

22:47    那時以東沒有王，有總督治理。
There was then no king in Edom: a deputy was king.

22:48    約沙法制造他施船隻，要往俄斐去，將金子運來。只是沒有去，因為船在以旬迦別破壞了。
Jehoshaphat made ships of Tharshish to go to Ophir for gold: but they went not; for the ships were broken at Eziongeber.

22:49    亞哈的兒子亞哈謝對約沙法說，容我的僕人和你的僕人坐船同去吧。約沙法卻不肯。
Then said Ahaziah the son of Ahab unto Jehoshaphat, Let my servants go with thy servants in the ships. But Jehoshaphat would not.

22:50    約沙法與列祖同睡。葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子約蘭接續他作王。
And Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Jehoram his son reigned in his stead.

22:51    猶大王約沙法十七年，亞哈的兒子亞哈謝在撒馬利亞登基，作以色列王共二年。
Ahaziah the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the seventeenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned two years over Israel.

22:52    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法他的父母，又行尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的事。
And he did evil in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the way of his father, and in the way of his mother, and in the way of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin:

22:53    他照他父親一切所行的，事奉敬拜巴力，惹耶和華以色列神的怒氣。
For he served Baal, and worshipped him, and provoked to anger the LORD God of Israel, according to all that his father had done.




