


舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


1:1    亞哈死後，摩押背叛以色列。
Then Moab rebelled against Israel after the death of Ahab.

1:2    亞哈謝在撒馬利亞，一日從樓上的欄杆裡掉下來，就病了。於是差遣使者說，你們去問以革倫的神巴力西卜，我這病能好不能好。
And Ahaziah fell down through a lattice in his upper chamber that was in Samaria, and was sick: and he sent messengers, and said unto them, Go, enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron whether I shall recover of this disease.

1:3    但耶和華的使者對提斯比人以利亞說，你起來，去迎著撒馬利亞王的使者，對他們說，你們去問以革倫神巴力西卜，豈因以色列中沒有神嗎。
But the angel of the LORD said to Elijah the Tishbite, Arise, go up to meet the messengers of the king of Samaria, and say unto them, Is it not because there is not a God in Israel, that ye go to enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron?

1:4    所以耶和華如此說，你必不下你所上的床，必定要死。以利亞就去了。
Now therefore thus saith the LORD, Thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die. And Elijah departed.

1:5    使者回來見王，王問他們說，你們為什麼回來呢。
And when the messengers turned back unto him, he said unto them, Why are ye now turned back?

1:6    使者回答說，有一個人迎著我們來，對我們說，你們回去見差你們來的王，對他說，耶和華如此說，你差人去問以革倫神巴力西卜，豈因以色列中沒有神嗎。所以你必不下所上的床，必定要死。
And they said unto him, There came a man up to meet us, and said unto us, Go, turn again unto the king that sent you, and say unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Is it not because there is not a God in Israel, that thou sendest to enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron? therefore thou shalt not come down from that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.

1:7    王問他們說，迎著你們來告訴你們這話的，是怎樣的人。
And he said unto them, What manner of man was he which came up to meet you, and told you these words?

1:8    回答說，他身穿毛衣，腰束皮帶。王說，這必是提斯比人以利亞。
And they answered him, He was an hairy man, and girt with a girdle of leather about his loins. And he said, It is Elijah the Tishbite.

1:9    於是，王差遣五十夫長，帶領五十人去見以利亞，他就上到以利亞那裡。以利亞正坐在山頂上。五十夫長對他說，神人哪，王吩咐你下來。
Then the king sent unto him a captain of fifty with his fifty. And he went up to him: and, behold, he sat on the top of an hill. And he spake unto him, Thou man of God, the king hath said, Come down.

1:10    以利亞回答說，我若是神人，願火從天上降下來，燒滅你和你那五十人。於是有火從天上降下來，燒滅五十夫長和他那五十人。
And Elijah answered and said to the captain of fifty, If I be a man of God, then let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty. And there came down fire from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.

1:11    王第二次差遣一個五十夫長，帶領五十人去見以利亞。五十夫長對以利亞說，神人哪，王吩咐你快快下來。
Again also he sent unto him another captain of fifty with his fifty. And he answered and said unto him, O man of God, thus hath the king said, Come down quickly.

1:12    以利亞回答說，我若是神人，願火從天上降下來，燒滅你和你那五十人。於是神的火從天上降下來，燒滅五十夫長和他那五十人。
And Elijah answered and said unto them, If I be a man of God, let fire come down from heaven, and consume thee and thy fifty. And the fire of God came down from heaven, and consumed him and his fifty.

1:13    王第三次差遣一個五十夫長，帶領五十人去。這五十夫長上去，雙膝跪在以利亞面前，哀求他說，神人哪，願我的性命和你這五十個僕人的性命在你眼前看為寶貴。
And he sent again a captain of the third fifty with his fifty. And the third captain of fifty went up, and came and fell on his knees before Elijah, and besought him, and said unto him, O man of God, I pray thee, let my life, and the life of these fifty thy servants, be precious in thy sight.

1:14    已經有火從天上降下來，燒滅前兩次來的五十夫長和他們各自帶的五十人。現在願我的性命在你眼前看為寶貴。
Behold, there came fire down from heaven, and burnt up the two captains of the former fifties with their fifties: therefore let my life now be precious in thy sight.

1:15    耶和華的使者對以利亞說，你同著他下去，不要怕他。以利亞就起來，同著他下去見王，
And the angel of the LORD said unto Elijah, Go down with him: be not afraid of him. And he arose, and went down with him unto the king.

1:16    對王說，耶和華如此說，你差人去問以革倫神巴力西卜，豈因以色列中沒有神可以求問嗎。所以你必不下所上的床，必定要死。
And he said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Forasmuch as thou hast sent messengers to enquire of Baalzebub the god of Ekron, is it not because there is no God in Israel to enquire of his word? therefore thou shalt not come down off that bed on which thou art gone up, but shalt surely die.

1:17    亞哈謝果然死了，正如耶和華藉以利亞所說的話。因他沒有兒子，他兄弟約蘭接續他作王，正在猶大王約沙法的兒子約蘭第二年。
So he died according to the word of the LORD which Elijah had spoken. And Jehoram reigned in his stead in the second year of Jehoram the son of Jehoshaphat king of Judah; because he had no son.

1:18    亞哈謝其餘所行的事都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Ahaziah which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


2:1    耶和華要用旋風接以利亞昇天的時候，以利亞與以利沙從吉甲前往。
And it came to pass, when the LORD would take up Elijah into heaven by a whirlwind, that Elijah went with Elisha from Gilgal.

2:2    以利亞對以利沙說，耶和華差我往伯特利去，你可以在這裡等候。以利沙說，我指著永生的耶和華，又敢在你面前起誓，我必不離開你。於是二人下到伯特利。
And Elijah said unto Elisha, Tarry here, I pray thee; for the LORD hath sent me to Bethel. And Elisha said unto him, As the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they went down to Bethel.

2:3    住伯特利的先知門徒出來見以利沙，對他說，耶和華今日要接你的師傅離開你，你知道不知道。他說，我知道，你們不要作聲。
And the sons of the prophets that were at Bethel came forth to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thy master from thy head to day? And he said, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace.

2:4    以利亞對以利沙說，耶和華差遣我往耶利哥去，你可以在這裡等候。以利沙說，我指著永生的耶和華，又敢在你面前起誓，我必不離開你。於是二人到了耶利哥。
And Elijah said unto him, Elisha, tarry here, I pray thee; for the LORD hath sent me to Jericho. And he said, As the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. So they came to Jericho.

2:5    住耶利哥的先知門徒就近以利沙，對他說，耶和華今日要接你的師傅離開你，你知道不知道。他說，我知道，你們不要作聲。
And the sons of the prophets that were at Jericho came to Elisha, and said unto him, Knowest thou that the LORD will take away thy master from thy head to day? And he answered, Yea, I know it; hold ye your peace.

2:6    以利亞對以利沙說，耶和華差遣我往約旦河去，你可以在這裡等候。以利沙說，我指著永生的耶和華，又敢在你面前起誓，我必不離開你。於是二人一同前往。
And Elijah said unto him, Tarry, I pray thee, here; for the LORD hath sent me to Jordan. And he said, As the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And they two went on.

2:7    有先知門徒去了五十人，遠遠地站在他們對面。二人在約旦河邊站住。
And fifty men of the sons of the prophets went, and stood to view afar off: and they two stood by Jordan.

2:8    以利亞將自己的外衣捲起來，用以打水，水就左右分開，二人走乾地而過。
And Elijah took his mantle, and wrapped it together, and smote the waters, and they were divided hither and thither, so that they two went over on dry ground.

2:9    過去之後，以利亞對以利沙說，我未曾被接去離開你，你要我為你作什麼，只管求我。以利沙說，願感動你的靈加倍地感動我。
And it came to pass, when they were gone over, that Elijah said unto Elisha, Ask what I shall do for thee, before I be taken away from thee. And Elisha said, I pray thee, let a double portion of thy spirit be upon me.

2:10    以利亞說，你所求的難得。雖然如此，我被接去離開你的時候，你若看見我，就必得著。不然，必得不著了。
And he said, Thou hast asked a hard thing: nevertheless, if thou see me when I am taken from thee, it shall be so unto thee; but if not, it shall not be so.

2:11    他們正走著說話，忽有火車火馬將二人隔開，以利亞就乘旋風昇天去了。
And it came to pass, as they still went on, and talked, that, behold, there appeared a chariot of fire, and horses of fire, and parted them both asunder; and Elijah went up by a whirlwind into heaven.

2:12    以利沙看見，就呼叫說，我父阿。我父阿。以色列的戰車馬兵阿。以後不再見他了。於是以利沙把自己的衣服撕為兩片。
And Elisha saw it, and he cried, My father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof. And he saw him no more: and he took hold of his own clothes, and rent them in two pieces.

2:13    他拾起以利亞身上掉下來的外衣，回去站在約旦河邊。
He took up also the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and went back, and stood by the bank of Jordan;

2:14    他用以利亞身上掉下來的外衣打水，說，耶和華以利亞的神在哪裡呢。打水之後，水也左右分開，以利沙就過來了。
And he took the mantle of Elijah that fell from him, and smote the waters, and said, Where is the LORD God of Elijah? and when he also had smitten the waters, they parted hither and thither: and Elisha went over.

2:15    住耶利哥的先知門徒從對面看見他，就說，感動以利亞的靈感動以利沙了。他們就來迎接他，在他面前俯伏於地，
And when the sons of the prophets which were to view at Jericho saw him, they said, The spirit of Elijah doth rest on Elisha. And they came to meet him, and bowed themselves to the ground before him.

2:16    對他說，僕人們這裡有五十個壯士，求你容他們去尋梢你師傅，或者耶和華的靈將他提起來，投在某山某谷。以利沙說，你們不必打發人去。
And they said unto him, Behold now, there be with thy servants fifty strong men; let them go, we pray thee, and seek thy master: lest peradventure the Spirit of the LORD hath taken him up, and cast him upon some mountain, or into some valley. And he said, Ye shall not send.

2:17    他們再三催促他，他難以推辭，就說，你們打發人去吧。他們便打發五十人去，尋梢了三天，也沒有找著。
And when they urged him till he was ashamed, he said, Send. They sent therefore fifty men; and they sought three days, but found him not.

2:18    以利沙仍然在耶利哥等候他們回到他那裡。他對他們說，我豈沒有告訴你們不必去嗎。
And when they came again to him, (for he tarried at Jericho,) he said unto them, Did I not say unto you, Go not?

2:19    耶利哥城的人對以利沙說，這城的地勢美好，我主看見了。只是水惡劣，土產不熟而落。
And the men of the city said unto Elisha, Behold, I pray thee, the situation of this city is pleasant, as my lord seeth: but the water is naught, and the ground barren.

2:20    以利沙說，你們拿一個新瓶來，裝鹽給我。他們就拿來給他。
And he said, Bring me a new cruse, and put salt therein. And they brought it to him.

2:21    他出到水源，將鹽倒在水中，說，耶和華如此說，我治好了這水，從此必不再使人死，也不再使地土不生產。
And he went forth unto the spring of the waters, and cast the salt in there, and said, Thus saith the LORD, I have healed these waters; there shall not be from thence any more death or barren land.

2:22    於是那水治好了，直到今日，正如以利沙所說的。
So the waters were healed unto this day, according to the saying of Elisha which he spake.

2:23    以利沙從那裡上伯特利去，正上去的時候，有些童子從城裡出來，戲笑他說，禿頭的上去吧。禿頭的上去吧。
And he went up from thence unto Bethel: and as he was going up by the way, there came forth little children out of the city, and mocked him, and said unto him, Go up, thou bald head; go up, thou bald head.

2:24    他回頭看見，就奉耶和華的名咒詛他們。於是有兩個母熊從林中出來，撕裂他們中間四十二個童子。
And he turned back, and looked on them, and cursed them in the name of the LORD. And there came forth two she bears out of the wood, and tare forty and two children of them.

2:25    以利沙從伯特利上迦密山，又從迦密山回到撒馬利亞。
And he went from thence to mount Carmel, and from thence he returned to Samaria.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


3:1    猶大王約沙法十八年，亞哈的兒子約蘭在撒馬利亞登基作了以色列王十二年。
Now Jehoram the son of Ahab began to reign over Israel in Samaria the eighteenth year of Jehoshaphat king of Judah, and reigned twelve years.

3:2    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，但不至像他父母所行的，因為除掉他父所造巴力的柱像。
And he wrought evil in the sight of the LORD; but not like his father, and like his mother: for he put away the image of Baal that his father had made.

3:3    然而，他貼近尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪，總不離開。
Nevertheless he cleaved unto the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which made Israel to sin; he departed not therefrom.

3:4    摩押王米沙牧養許多羊，每年將十萬羊羔的毛和十萬公綿羊的毛給以色列王進貢。
And Mesha king of Moab was a sheepmaster, and rendered unto the king of Israel an hundred thousand lambs, and an hundred thousand rams, with the wool.

3:5    亞哈死後，摩押王背叛以色列王。
But it came to pass, when Ahab was dead, that the king of Moab rebelled against the king of Israel.

3:6    那時約蘭王出撒馬利亞，數點以色列眾人。
And king Jehoram went out of Samaria the same time, and numbered all Israel.

3:7    前行的時候，差人去見猶大王約沙法，說，摩押王背叛我，你肯同我去攻打摩押嗎。他說，我肯上去，你我不分彼此，我的民與你的民一樣，我的馬與你的馬一樣。
And he went and sent to Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, saying, The king of Moab hath rebelled against me: wilt thou go with me against Moab to battle? And he said, I will go up: I am as thou art, my people as thy people, and my horses as thy horses.

3:8    約蘭說，我們從哪條路上去呢。回答說，從以東曠野的路上去。
And he said, Which way shall we go up? And he answered, The way through the wilderness of Edom.

3:9    於是，以色列王和猶大王，並以東王，都一同去繞行七日的路程。軍隊和所帶的牲畜沒有水喝。
So the king of Israel went, and the king of Judah, and the king of Edom: and they fetched a compass of seven days' journey: and there was no water for the host, and for the cattle that followed them.

3:10    以色列王說，哀哉。耶和華招聚我們這三王，乃要交在摩押人的手裡。
And the king of Israel said, Alas! that the LORD hath called these three kings together, to deliver them into the hand of Moab!

3:11    約沙法說，這裡不是有耶和華的先知嗎。我們可以託他求問耶和華。以色列王的一個臣子回答說，這裡有沙法的兒子以利沙，就是從前服事以利亞的（原文作倒水在以利亞手上的）。
But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD, that we may enquire of the LORD by him? And one of the king of Israel's servants answered and said, Here is Elisha the son of Shaphat, which poured water on the hands of Elijah.

3:12    約沙法說，他必有耶和華的話。於是以色列王和約沙法，並以東王都下去見他。
And Jehoshaphat said, The word of the LORD is with him. So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat and the king of Edom went down to him.

3:13    以利沙對以色列王說，我與你何干。去問你父親的先知和你母親的先知吧。以色列王對他說，不要這樣說，耶和華招聚我們這三王，乃要交在摩押人的手裡。
And Elisha said unto the king of Israel, What have I to do with thee? get thee to the prophets of thy father, and to the prophets of thy mother. And the king of Israel said unto him, Nay: for the LORD hath called these three kings together, to deliver them into the hand of Moab.

3:14    以利沙說，我指著所事奉永生的萬軍耶和華起誓，我若不看猶大王約沙法的情面，必不理你，不顧你。
And Elisha said, As the LORD of hosts liveth, before whom I stand, surely, were it not that I regard the presence of Jehoshaphat the king of Judah, I would not look toward thee, nor see thee.

3:15    現在你們給我找一個彈琴的來。彈琴的時候，耶和華的靈（原文作手）就降在以利沙身上。
But now bring me a minstrel. And it came to pass, when the minstrel played, that the hand of the LORD came upon him.

3:16    他便說，耶和華如此說，你們要在這谷中滿處挖溝。
And he said, Thus saith the LORD, Make this valley full of ditches.

3:17    因為耶和華如此說，你們雖不見風，不見雨，這谷必滿了水，使你們和牲畜有水喝。
For thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not see wind, neither shall ye see rain; yet that valley shall be filled with water, that ye may drink, both ye, and your cattle, and your beasts.

3:18    在耶和華眼中這還算為小事，他也必將摩押人交在你們手中。
And this is but a light thing in the sight of the LORD: he will deliver the Moabites also into your hand.

3:19    你們必攻破一切堅城美邑，砍伐各種佳樹，塞住一切水泉，用石頭糟踏一切美田。
And ye shall smite every fenced city, and every choice city, and shall fell every good tree, and stop all wells of water, and mar every good piece of land with stones.

3:20    次日早晨，約在獻祭的時候，有水從以東而來，遍地就滿了水。
And it came to pass in the morning, when the meat offering was offered, that, behold, there came water by the way of Edom, and the country was filled with water.

3:21    摩押眾人聽見這三王上來要與他們爭戰，凡能頂盔貫甲的，無論老少，盡都聚集站在邊界上。
And when all the Moabites heard that the kings were come up to fight against them, they gathered all that were able to put on armour, and upward, and stood in the border.

3:22    次日早晨，日光照在水上，摩押人起來，看見對面水紅如血，
And they rose up early in the morning, and the sun shone upon the water, and the Moabites saw the water on the other side as red as blood:

3:23    就說，這是血阿。必是三王互相擊殺，俱都滅亡。摩押人哪，我們現在去搶奪財物吧。
And they said, This is blood: the kings are surely slain, and they have smitten one another: now therefore, Moab, to the spoil.

3:24    摩押人到了以色列營，以色列人就起來攻打他們，以致他們在以色列人面前逃跑。以色列人往前追殺摩押人，直殺入摩押的境內，
And when they came to the camp of Israel, the Israelites rose up and smote the Moabites, so that they fled before them: but they went forward smiting the Moabites, even in their country.

3:25    拆毀摩押的城邑，各人拋石填滿一切美田，塞住一切水泉，砍伐各種佳樹，只剩下吉珥哈列設的石牆。甩石的兵在四圍攻打那城。
And they beat down the cities, and on every good piece of land cast every man his stone, and filled it; and they stopped all the wells of water, and felled all the good trees: only in Kirharaseth left they the stones thereof; howbeit the slingers went about it, and smote it.

3:26    摩押王見陣勢甚大，難以對敵，就率領七百拿刀的兵，要衝過陣去到以東王那裡，卻是不能。
And when the king of Moab saw that the battle was too sore for him, he took with him seven hundred men that drew swords, to break through even unto the king of Edom: but they could not.

3:27    便將那應當接續他作王的長子，在城上獻為燔祭。以色列人遭遇耶和華的大怒（或作招人痛恨），於是三王離開摩押王，各回本國去了。
Then he took his eldest son that should have reigned in his stead, and offered him for a burnt offering upon the wall. And there was great indignation against Israel: and they departed from him, and returned to their own land.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


4:1    有一個先知門徒的妻哀求以利沙說，你僕人我丈夫死了，他敬畏耶和華是你所知道的。現在有債主來，要取我兩個兒子作奴僕。
Now there cried a certain woman of the wives of the sons of the prophets unto Elisha, saying, Thy servant my husband is dead; and thou knowest that thy servant did fear the LORD: and the creditor is come to take unto him my two sons to be bondmen.

4:2    以利沙問她說，我可以為你作什麼呢。你告訴我，你家裡有什麼。她說，婢女家中除了一瓶油之外，沒有什麼。
And Elisha said unto her, What shall I do for thee? tell me, what hast thou in the house? And she said, Thine handmaid hath not any thing in the house, save a pot of oil.

4:3    以利沙說，你去，向你眾鄰舍借空器皿，不要少借。
Then he said, Go, borrow thee vessels abroad of all thy neighbours, even empty vessels; borrow not a few.

4:4    回到家裡，關上門，你和你兒子在裡面將油倒在所有的器皿裡，倒滿了的放在一邊。
And when thou art come in, thou shalt shut the door upon thee and upon thy sons, and shalt pour out into all those vessels, and thou shalt set aside that which is full.

4:5    於是，婦人離開以利沙去了，關上門，自己和兒子在裡面。兒子把器皿拿來，她就倒油。
So she went from him, and shut the door upon her and upon her sons, who brought the vessels to her; and she poured out.

4:6    器皿都滿了，她對兒子說，再給我拿器皿來。兒子說，再沒有器皿了。油就止住了。
And it came to pass, when the vessels were full, that she said unto her son, Bring me yet a vessel. And he said unto her, There is not a vessel more. And the oil stayed.

4:7    婦人去告訴神人，神人說，你去賣油還債，所剩的你和你兒子可以靠著度日。
Then she came and told the man of God. And he said, Go, sell the oil, and pay thy debt, and live thou and thy children of the rest.

4:8    一日，以利沙走到書念，在那裡有一個大戶的婦人強留他吃飯。此後，以利沙每從那裡經過就進去吃飯。
And it fell on a day, that Elisha passed to Shunem, where was a great woman; and she constrained him to eat bread. And so it was, that as oft as he passed by, he turned in thither to eat bread.

4:9    婦人對丈夫說，我看出那常從我們這裡經過的是聖潔的神人。
And she said unto her husband, Behold now, I perceive that this is an holy man of God, which passeth by us continually.

4:10    我們可以為他在牆上蓋一間小樓，在其中安放床榻，桌子，椅子，燈臺，他來到我們這裡，就可以住在其間。
Let us make a little chamber, I pray thee, on the wall; and let us set for him there a bed, and a table, and a stool, and a candlestick: and it shall be, when he cometh to us, that he shall turn in thither.

4:11    一日，以利沙來到那裡，就進了那樓躺臥。
And it fell on a day, that he came thither, and he turned into the chamber, and lay there.

4:12    以利沙吩咐僕人基哈西說，你叫這書念婦人來。他就把婦人叫了來，婦人站在以利沙面前。
And he said to Gehazi his servant, Call this Shunammite. And when he had called her, she stood before him.

4:13    以利沙吩咐僕人說，你對她說，你既為我們費了許多心思，可以為你作什麼呢。你向王或元帥有所求的沒有。她回答說，我在我本鄉安居無事。
And he said unto him, Say now unto her, Behold, thou hast been careful for us with all this care; what is to be done for thee? wouldest thou be spoken for to the king, or to the captain of the host? And she answered, I dwell among mine own people.

4:14    以利沙對僕人說，究竟當為她作什麼呢。基哈西說，她沒有兒子，她丈夫也老了。
And he said, What then is to be done for her? And Gehazi answered, Verily she hath no child, and her husband is old.

4:15    以利沙說，再叫她來。於是叫了她來，她就站在門口。
And he said, Call her. And when he had called her, she stood in the door.

4:16    以利沙說，明年到這時候，你必抱一個兒子。她說，神人，我主阿，不要那樣欺哄婢女。
And he said, About this season, according to the time of life, thou shalt embrace a son. And she said, Nay, my lord, thou man of God, do not lie unto thine handmaid.

4:17    婦人果然懷孕，到了那時候，生了一個兒子，正如以利沙所說的。
And the woman conceived, and bare a son at that season that Elisha had said unto her, according to the time of life.

4:18    孩子漸漸長大，一日到他父親和收割的人那裡，
And when the child was grown, it fell on a day, that he went out to his father to the reapers.

4:19    他對父親說，我的頭阿，我的頭阿。他父親對僕人說，把他抱到他母親那裡。
And he said unto his father, My head, my head. And he said to a lad, Carry him to his mother.

4:20    僕人抱去，交給他母親。孩子坐在母親的膝上，到晌午就死了。
And when he had taken him, and brought him to his mother, he sat on her knees till noon, and then died.

4:21    他母親抱他上了樓，將他放在神人的床上，關上門出來，
And she went up, and laid him on the bed of the man of God, and shut the door upon him, and went out.

4:22    呼叫她丈夫說，你叫一個僕人給我牽一匹驢來，我要快快地去見神人，就回來。
And she called unto her husband, and said, Send me, I pray thee, one of the young men, and one of the asses, that I may run to the man of God, and come again.

4:23    丈夫說，今日不是月朔，也不是安息日，你為何要去見他呢。婦人說，平安無事。
And he said, Wherefore wilt thou go to him to day? it is neither new moon, nor sabbath. And she said, It shall be well.

4:24    於是備上驢，對僕人說，你快快趕著走，我若不吩咐你，就不要遲慢。
Then she saddled an ass, and said to her servant, Drive, and go forward; slack not thy riding for me, except I bid thee.

4:25    婦人就往迦密山去見神人。神人遠遠地看見她，對僕人基哈西說，看哪，書唸的婦人來了。
So she went and came unto the man of God to mount Carmel. And it came to pass, when the man of God saw her afar off, that he said to Gehazi his servant, Behold, yonder is that Shunammite:

4:26    你跑去迎接她，問她說，你平安嗎。你丈夫平安嗎。孩子平安嗎。她說，平安。
Run now, I pray thee, to meet her, and say unto her, Is it well with thee? is it well with thy husband? is it well with the child? And she answered, It is well.

4:27    婦人上了山，到神人那裡，就抱住神人的腳。基哈西前來要推開她，神人說，由她吧。因為她心裡愁苦，耶和華向我隱瞞，沒有指示我。
And when she came to the man of God to the hill, she caught him by the feet: but Gehazi came near to thrust her away. And the man of God said, Let her alone; for her soul is vexed within her: and the LORD hath hid it from me, and hath not told me.



4:28    婦人說，我何嘗向我主求過兒子呢。我豈沒有說過，不要欺哄我嗎。
Then she said, Did I desire a son of my lord? did I not say, Do not deceive me?

4:29    以利沙吩咐基哈西說，你束上腰，手拿我的杖前去。若遇見人，不要向他問安。人若向你問安，也不要回答。要把我的杖放在孩子臉上。
Then he said to Gehazi, Gird up thy loins, and take my staff in thine hand, and go thy way: if thou meet any man, salute him not; and if any salute thee, answer him not again: and lay my staff upon the face of the child.

4:30    孩子的母親說，我指著永生的耶和華，又敢在你面前起誓，我必不離開你。於是以利沙起身，隨著她去了。
And the mother of the child said, As the LORD liveth, and as thy soul liveth, I will not leave thee. And he arose, and followed her.

4:31    基哈西先去，把杖放在孩子臉上，卻沒有聲音，也沒有動靜。基哈西就迎著以利沙回來，告訴他說，孩子還沒有醒過來。
And Gehazi passed on before them, and laid the staff upon the face of the child; but there was neither voice, nor hearing. Wherefore he went again to meet him, and told him, saying, The child is not awaked.

4:32    以利沙來到，進了屋子，看見孩子死了，放在自己的床上。
And when Elisha was come into the house, behold, the child was dead, and laid upon his bed.

4:33    他就關上門，只有自己和孩子在裡面，他便祈禱耶和華，
He went in therefore, and shut the door upon them twain, and prayed unto the LORD.

4:34    上床伏在孩子身上，口對口，眼對眼，手對手。既伏在孩子身上，孩子的身體就漸漸溫和了。
And he went up, and lay upon the child, and put his mouth upon his mouth, and his eyes upon his eyes, and his hands upon his hands: and he stretched himself upon the child; and the flesh of the child waxed warm.

4:35    然後他下來，在屋裡來往走了一趟，又上去伏在孩子身上，孩子打了七個噴嚏，就睜開眼睛了。
Then he returned, and walked in the house to and fro; and went up, and stretched himself upon him: and the child sneezed seven times, and the child opened his eyes.

4:36    以利沙叫基哈西說，你叫這書念婦人來。於是叫了她來。以利沙說，將你兒子抱起來。
And he called Gehazi, and said, Call this Shunammite. So he called her. And when she was come in unto him, he said, Take up thy son.

4:37    婦人就進來，在以利沙腳前俯伏於地，抱起她兒子出去了。
Then she went in, and fell at his feet, and bowed herself to the ground, and took up her son, and went out.

4:38    以利沙又來到吉甲，那地正有饑荒。先知門徒坐在他面前，他吩咐僕人說，你將大鍋放在火上，給先知門徒熬湯。
And Elisha came again to Gilgal: and there was a dearth in the land; and the sons of the prophets were sitting before him: and he said unto his servant, Set on the great pot, and seethe pottage for the sons of the prophets.

4:39    有一個人去到田野掐菜，遇見一棵野瓜藤，就摘了一兜野瓜回來，切了擱在熬湯的鍋中，因為他們不知道是什麼東西。
And one went out into the field to gather herbs, and found a wild vine, and gathered thereof wild gourds his lap full, and came and shred them into the pot of pottage: for they knew them not.

4:40    倒出來給眾人吃，吃的時候，都喊叫說，神人哪，鍋中有致死的毒物。所以眾人不能吃了。
So they poured out for the men to eat. And it came to pass, as they were eating of the pottage, that they cried out, and said, O thou man of God, there is death in the pot. And they could not eat thereof.

4:41    以利沙說，拿點面來，就把面撒在鍋中，說，倒出來，給眾人吃吧。鍋中就沒有毒了。
But he said, Then bring meal. And he cast it into the pot; and he said, Pour out for the people, that they may eat. And there was no harm in the pot.

4:42    有一個人從巴力沙利沙來，帶著初熟大麥作的餅二十個，並新穗子，裝在口袋裡送給神人。神人說，把這些給眾人吃。
And there came a man from Baalshalisha, and brought the man of God bread of the firstfruits, twenty loaves of barley, and full ears of corn in the husk thereof. And he said, Give unto the people, that they may eat.

4:43    僕人說，這一點豈可擺給一百人吃呢。以利沙說，你只管給眾人吃吧。因為耶和華如此說，眾人必吃了，還剩下。
And his servitor said, What, should I set this before an hundred men? He said again, Give the people, that they may eat: for thus saith the LORD, They shall eat, and shall leave thereof.

4:44    僕人就擺在眾人面前，他們吃了，果然還剩下，正如耶和華所說的。
So he set it before them, and they did eat, and left thereof, according to the word of the LORD.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


5:1    亞蘭王的元帥乃縵在他主人面前為尊為大，因耶和華曾藉他使亞蘭人得勝。他又是大能的勇士，只是長了大麻瘋。
Now Naaman, captain of the host of the king of Syria, was a great man with his master, and honourable, because by him the LORD had given deliverance unto Syria: he was also a mighty man in valour, but he was a leper.

5:2    先前亞蘭人成群地出去，從以色列國擄了一個小女子，這女子就服事乃縵的妻。
And the Syrians had gone out by companies, and had brought away captive out of the land of Israel a little maid; and she waited on Naaman's wife.

5:3    她對主母說，巴不得我主人去見撒馬利亞的先知，必能治好他的大麻瘋。
And she said unto her mistress, Would God my lord were with the prophet that is in Samaria! for he would recover him of his leprosy.

5:4    乃縵進去，告訴他主人說，以色列國的女子如此如此說。
And one went in, and told his lord, saying, Thus and thus said the maid that is of the land of Israel.

5:5    亞蘭王說，你可以去，我也達信於以色列王。於是乃縵帶銀子十他連得，金子六千舍客勒，衣裳十套，就去了。
And the king of Syria said, Go to, go, and I will send a letter unto the king of Israel. And he departed, and took with him ten talents of silver, and six thousand pieces of gold, and ten changes of raiment.

5:6    且帶信給以色列王，信上說，我打發臣僕乃縵去見你，你接到這信，就要治好他的大麻瘋。
And he brought the letter to the king of Israel, saying, Now when this letter is come unto thee, behold, I have therewith sent Naaman my servant to thee, that thou mayest recover him of his leprosy.

5:7    以色列王看了信就撕裂衣服，說，我豈是神，能使人死使人活呢。這人竟打發人來，叫我治好他的大麻瘋。你們看一看，這人何以尋隙攻擊我呢。
And it came to pass, when the king of Israel had read the letter, that he rent his clothes, and said, Am I God, to kill and to make alive, that this man doth send unto me to recover a man of his leprosy? wherefore consider, I pray you, and see how he seeketh a quarrel against me.

5:8    神人以利沙聽見以色列王撕裂衣服，就打發人去見王，說，你為什麼撕了衣服呢。可使那人到我這裡來，他就知道以色列中有先知了。
And it was so, when Elisha the man of God had heard that the king of Israel had rent his clothes, that he sent to the king, saying, Wherefore hast thou rent thy clothes? let him come now to me, and he shall know that there is a prophet in Israel.

5:9    於是，乃縵帶著車馬到了以利沙的家，站在門前。
So Naaman came with his horses and with his chariot, and stood at the door of the house of Elisha.

5:10    以利沙打發一個使者，對乃縵說，你去在約旦河中沭浴七回，你的肉就必復原，而得潔淨。
And Elisha sent a messenger unto him, saying, Go and wash in Jordan seven times, and thy flesh shall come again to thee, and thou shalt be clean.

5:11    乃縵卻發怒走了，說，我想他必定出來見我，站著求告耶和華他神的名，在患處以上搖手，治好這大麻瘋。
But Naaman was wroth, and went away, and said, Behold, I thought, He will surely come out to me, and stand, and call on the name of the LORD his God, and strike his hand over the place, and recover the leper.

5:12    大馬士革的河亞吧拿和法珥法豈不比以色列的一切水更好嗎。我在那裡沭浴不得潔淨嗎。於是氣忿忿地轉身去了。
Are not Abana and Pharpar, rivers of Damascus, better than all the waters of Israel? may I not wash in them, and be clean? So he turned and went away in a rage.

5:13    他的僕人進前來，對他說，我父阿，先知若吩咐你作一件大事，你豈不作嗎。何況說你去沭浴而得潔淨呢。
And his servants came near, and spake unto him, and said, My father, if the prophet had bid thee do some great thing, wouldest thou not have done it? how much rather then, when he saith to thee, Wash, and be clean?

5:14    於是乃縵下去，照著神人的話，在約旦河裡沭浴七回。他的肉復原，好像小孩子的肉，他就潔淨了。
Then went he down, and dipped himself seven times in Jordan, according to the saying of the man of God: and his flesh came again like unto the flesh of a little child, and he was clean.

5:15    乃縵帶著一切跟隨他的人，回到神人那裡，站在他面前，說，如今我知道，除了以色列之外，普天下沒有神。現在求你收點僕人的禮物。
And he returned to the man of God, he and all his company, and came, and stood before him: and he said, Behold, now I know that there is no God in all the earth, but in Israel: now therefore, I pray thee, take a blessing of thy servant.

5:16    以利沙說，我指著所事奉永生的耶和華起誓，我必不受。乃縵再三地求他，他卻不受。
But he said, As the LORD liveth, before whom I stand, I will receive none. And he urged him to take it; but he refused.

5:17    乃縵說，你若不肯受，請將兩騾子馱的土賜給僕人。從今以後，僕人必不再將燔祭或平安祭獻與別神，只獻給耶和華。
And Naaman said, Shall there not then, I pray thee, be given to thy servant two mules' burden of earth? for thy servant will henceforth offer neither burnt offering nor sacrifice unto other gods, but unto the LORD.

5:18    惟有一件事，願耶和華饒恕你僕人，我主人進臨門廟叩拜的時候，我用手攙他在臨門廟，我也屈身。我在臨門廟屈身的這事，願耶和華饒恕我。
In this thing the LORD pardon thy servant, that when my master goeth into the house of Rimmon to worship there, and he leaneth on my hand, and I bow myself in the house of Rimmon: when I bow down myself in the house of Rimmon, the LORD pardon thy servant in this thing.

5:19    以利沙對他說，你可以平平安安地回去。乃縵就離開他去了。走了不遠，
And he said unto him, Go in peace. So he departed from him a little way.

5:20    神人以利沙的僕人基哈西心裡說，我主人不願從這亞蘭人乃縵手裡受他帶來的禮物，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，我必跑去追上他，向他要些。
But Gehazi, the servant of Elisha the man of God, said, Behold, my master hath spared Naaman this Syrian, in not receiving at his hands that which he brought: but, as the LORD liveth, I will run after him, and take somewhat of him.

5:21    於是基哈西追趕乃縵。乃縵看見有人追趕，就急忙下車迎著他，說，都平安嗎。
So Gehazi followed after Naaman. And when Naaman saw him running after him, he lighted down from the chariot to meet him, and said, Is all well?

5:22    說，都平安。我主人打發我來說，剛才有兩個少年人，是先知門徒，從以法蓮山地來見我，請你賜他們一他連得銀子，兩套衣裳。
And he said, All is well. My master hath sent me, saying, Behold, even now there be come to me from mount Ephraim two young men of the sons of the prophets: give them, I pray thee, a talent of silver, and two changes of garments.

5:23    乃縵說，請受二他連得。再三地請受，便將二他連得銀子裝在兩個口袋裡，又將兩套衣裳交給兩個僕人。他們就在基哈西前頭抬著走。
And Naaman said, Be content, take two talents. And he urged him, and bound two talents of silver in two bags, with two changes of garments, and laid them upon two of his servants; and they bare them before him.

5:24    到了山岡，基哈西從他們手中接過來，放在屋裡，打發他們回去。
And when he came to the tower, he took them from their hand, and bestowed them in the house: and he let the men go, and they departed.

5:25    基哈西進去，站在他主人面前。以利沙問他說，基哈西你從哪裡來。回答說，僕人沒有往哪裡去。
But he went in, and stood before his master. And Elisha said unto him, Whence comest thou, Gehazi? And he said, Thy servant went no whither.

5:26    以利沙對他說，那人下車轉回迎你的時候，我的心豈沒有去呢。這豈是受銀子，衣裳，買橄欖園，葡萄園，牛羊，僕婢的時候呢。
And he said unto him, Went not mine heart with thee, when the man turned again from his chariot to meet thee? Is it a time to receive money, and to receive garments, and oliveyards, and vineyards, and sheep, and oxen, and menservants, and maidservants?

5:27    因此，乃縵的大麻瘋必沾染你和你的後裔，直到永遠。基哈西從以利沙面前退出去，就長了大麻瘋，像雪那樣白。
The leprosy therefore of Naaman shall cleave unto thee, and unto thy seed for ever. And he went out from his presence a leper as white as snow.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


6:1    先知門徒對以利沙說，看哪，我們同你所住的地方過於窄小，
And the sons of the prophets said unto Elisha, Behold now, the place where we dwell with thee is too strait for us.

6:2    求你容我們往約旦河去，各人從那裡取一根木料建造房屋居住。他說，你們去吧。
Let us go, we pray thee, unto Jordan, and take thence every man a beam, and let us make us a place there, where we may dwell. And he answered, Go ye.

6:3    有一人說，求你與僕人同去。回答說，我可以去。
And one said, Be content, I pray thee, and go with thy servants. And he answered, I will go.

6:4    於是以利沙與他們同去。到了約旦河，就砍伐樹木。
So he went with them. And when they came to Jordan, they cut down wood.

6:5    有一人砍樹的時候，斧頭掉在水裡，他就呼叫說，哀哉。我主阿，這斧子是借的。
But as one was felling a beam, the axe head fell into the water: and he cried, and said, Alas, master! for it was borrowed.

6:6    神人問說，掉在哪裡了。他將那地方指給以利沙看。以利沙砍了一根木頭，拋在水裡，斧頭就漂上來了。
And the man of God said, Where fell it? And he shewed him the place. And he cut down a stick, and cast it in thither; and the iron did swim.

6:7    以利沙說，拿起來吧。那人就伸手拿起來了。
Therefore said he, Take it up to thee. And he put out his hand, and took it.

6:8    亞蘭王與以色列人爭戰，和他的臣僕商議說，我要在某處某處安營。
Then the king of Syria warred against Israel, and took counsel with his servants, saying, In such and such a place shall be my camp.

6:9    神人打發人去見以色列王，說，你要謹慎，不要從某處經過，因為亞蘭人從那裡下來了。
And the man of God sent unto the king of Israel, saying, Beware that thou pass not such a place; for thither the Syrians are come down.

6:10    以色列王差人去窺探神人所告訴所警戒他去的地方，就防備未受其害，不止一兩次。
And the king of Israel sent to the place which the man of God told him and warned him of, and saved himself there, not once nor twice.

6:11    亞蘭王因這事心裡驚疑，召了臣僕來，對他們說，我們這裡有誰幫助以色列王，你們不指給我嗎。
Therefore the heart of the king of Syria was sore troubled for this thing; and he called his servants, and said unto them, Will ye not shew me which of us is for the king of Israel?

6:12    有一個臣僕說，我主，我王。無人幫助他，只有以色列中的先知以利沙，將王在臥房所說的話告訴以色列王了。
And one of his servants said, None, my lord, O king: but Elisha, the prophet that is in Israel, telleth the king of Israel the words that thou speakest in thy bedchamber.

6:13    王說，你們去探他在哪裡，我好打發人去捉拿他。有人告訴王說，他在多坍。
And he said, Go and spy where he is, that I may send and fetch him. And it was told him, saying, Behold, he is in Dothan.

6:14    王就打發車馬和大軍往那裡去，夜間到了，圍困那城。
Therefore sent he thither horses, and chariots, and a great host: and they came by night, and compassed the city about.

6:15    神人的僕人清早起來出去，看見車馬軍兵圍困了城。僕人對神人說，哀哉。我主阿，我們怎樣行才好呢。
And when the servant of the man of God was risen early, and gone forth, behold, an host compassed the city both with horses and chariots. And his servant said unto him, Alas, my master! how shall we do?

6:16    神人說，不要懼怕。與我們同在的比與他們同在的更多。
And he answered, Fear not: for they that be with us are more than they that be with them.

6:17    以利沙禱告說，耶和華阿，求你開這少年人的眼目，使他能看見。耶和華開他的眼目，他就看見滿山有火車火馬圍繞以利沙。
And Elisha prayed, and said, LORD, I pray thee, open his eyes, that he may see. And the LORD opened the eyes of the young man; and he saw: and, behold, the mountain was full of horses and chariots of fire round about Elisha.

6:18    敵人下到以利沙那裡，以利沙禱告耶和華說，求你使這些人的眼目昏迷。耶和華就照以利沙的話，使他們的眼目昏迷。
And when they came down to him, Elisha prayed unto the LORD, and said, Smite this people, I pray thee, with blindness. And he smote them with blindness according to the word of Elisha.

6:19    以利沙對他們說，這不是那道，也不是那城。你們跟我去，我必領你們到所尋梢的人那裡。於是領他們到了撒馬利亞。
And Elisha said unto them, This is not the way, neither is this the city: follow me, and I will bring you to the man whom ye seek. But he led them to Samaria.

6:20    他們進了撒馬利亞，以利沙禱告說，耶和華阿，求你開這些人的眼目，使他們能看見。耶和華開他們的眼目，他們就看見了，不料，是在撒馬利亞的城中。
And it came to pass, when they were come into Samaria, that Elisha said, LORD, open the eyes of these men, that they may see. And the LORD opened their eyes, and they saw; and, behold, they were in the midst of Samaria.

6:21    以色列王見了他們，就問以利沙說，我父阿，我可以擊殺他們嗎。
And the king of Israel said unto Elisha, when he saw them, My father, shall I smite them? shall I smite them?

6:22    回答說，不可擊殺他們。就是你用刀用弓擄來的，豈可擊殺他們嗎（或作也不可擊殺，何況這些人呢）。當在他們面前設擺飲食，使他們吃喝回到他們的主人那裡。
And he answered, Thou shalt not smite them: wouldest thou smite those whom thou hast taken captive with thy sword and with thy bow? set bread and water before them, that they may eat and drink, and go to their master.

6:23    王就為他們預備了許多食物。他們吃喝完了，打發他們回到他們主人那裡。從此，亞蘭軍不再犯以色列境了。
And he prepared great provision for them: and when they had eaten and drunk, he sent them away, and they went to their master. So the bands of Syria came no more into the land of Israel.

6:24    此後，亞蘭王便哈達聚集他的全軍，上來圍困撒馬利亞。
And it came to pass after this, that Benhadad king of Syria gathered all his host, and went up, and besieged Samaria.

6:25    於是撒馬利亞被圍困，有饑荒，甚至一個驢頭值銀八十舍客勒，二升鴿子糞值銀五舍客勒。
And there was a great famine in Samaria: and, behold, they besieged it, until an ass's head was sold for fourscore pieces of silver, and the fourth part of a cab of dove's dung for five pieces of silver.

6:26    一日，以色列王在城上經過，有一個婦人向他呼叫說，我主，我王阿。求你幫助。
And as the king of Israel was passing by upon the wall, there cried a woman unto him, saying, Help, my lord, O king.

6:27    王說，耶和華不幫助你，我從何處幫助你。是從禾場，是從酒？？呢。
And he said, If the LORD do not help thee, whence shall I help thee? out of the barnfloor, or out of the winepress?

6:28    王問婦人說，你有什麼苦處。她回答說，這婦人對我說，將你的兒子取來，我們今日可以吃，明日可以吃我的兒子。
And the king said unto her, What aileth thee? And she answered, This woman said unto me, Give thy son, that we may eat him to day, and we will eat my son to morrow.

6:29    我們就煮了我的兒子吃了。次日我對她說，要將你的兒子取來，我們可以吃。她卻將她的兒子藏起來了。
So we boiled my son, and did eat him: and I said unto her on the next day, Give thy son, that we may eat him: and she hath hid her son.

6:30    王聽見婦人的話，就撕裂衣服。（王在城上經過）百姓看見王貼身穿著麻衣。
And it came to pass, when the king heard the words of the woman, that he rent his clothes; and he passed by upon the wall, and the people looked, and, behold, he had sackcloth within upon his flesh.

6:31    王說，我今日若容沙法的兒子以利沙的頭仍在他項上，願神重重地降罰與我。
Then he said, God do so and more also to me, if the head of Elisha the son of Shaphat shall stand on him this day.

6:32    那時，以利沙正坐在家中，長老也與他同坐。王打發一個伺候他的人去。他還沒有到，以利沙對長老說，你們看這凶手之子，打發人來斬我的頭。你們看著使者來到，就關上門，用門將他推出去。在他後頭不是有他主人腳步的響聲嗎？
But Elisha sat in his house, and the elders sat with him; and the king sent a man from before him: but ere the messenger came to him, he said to the elders, See ye how this son of a murderer hath sent to take away mine head? look, when the messenger cometh, shut the door, and hold him fast at the door: is not the sound of his master's feet behind him?

6:33    正說話的時候，使者來到，王也到了，說，這災禍是從耶和華那裡來的，我何必再仰望耶和華呢。
And while he yet talked with them, behold, the messenger came down unto him: and he said, Behold, this evil is of the LORD; what should I wait for the LORD any longer?




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


7:1    以利沙說，你們要聽耶和華的話，耶和華如此說，明日約到這時候，在撒馬利亞城門口，一細亞細面要賣銀一舍客勒，二細亞大麥也要賣銀一舍客勒。
Then Elisha said, Hear ye the word of the LORD; Thus saith the LORD, To morrow about this time shall a measure of fine flour be sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, in the gate of Samaria.

7:2    有一個攙扶王的軍長對神人說，即便耶和華使天開了窗戶，也不能有這事。以利沙說，你必親眼看見，卻不得吃。
Then a lord on whose hand the king leaned answered the man of God, and said, Behold, if the LORD would make windows in heaven, might this thing be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shalt not eat thereof.

7:3    在城門那裡有四個長大麻瘋的人，他們彼此說，我們為何坐在這裡等死呢。
And there were four leprous men at the entering in of the gate: and they said one to another, Why sit we here until we die?

7:4    我們若說，進城去吧。城裡有饑荒，必死在那裡。若在這裡坐著不動，也必是死。來吧，我們去投降亞蘭人的軍隊，他們若留我們的活命，就活著。若殺我們，就死了吧。
If we say, We will enter into the city, then the famine is in the city, and we shall die there: and if we sit still here, we die also. Now therefore come, and let us fall unto the host of the Syrians: if they save us alive, we shall live; and if they kill us, we shall but die.

7:5    黃昏的時候，他們起來往亞蘭人的營盤去。到了營邊，不見一人在那裡。
And they rose up in the twilight, to go unto the camp of the Syrians: and when they were come to the uttermost part of the camp of Syria, behold, there was no man there.

7:6    因為主使亞蘭人的軍隊聽見車馬的聲音，是大軍的聲音。他們就彼此說，這必是以色列王賄買赫人的諸王和埃及人的諸王來攻擊我們。
For the LORD had made the host of the Syrians to hear a noise of chariots, and a noise of horses, even the noise of a great host: and they said one to another, Lo, the king of Israel hath hired against us the kings of the Hittites, and the kings of the Egyptians, to come upon us.

7:7    所以，在黃昏的時候他們起來逃跑，撇下帳棚，馬，驢，營盤照舊，只顧逃命。
Wherefore they arose and fled in the twilight, and left their tents, and their horses, and their asses, even the camp as it was, and fled for their life.

7:8    那些長大麻瘋的到了營邊，進了帳棚，吃了喝了，且從其中拿出金銀和衣服來，去收藏了。回來又進了一座帳棚，從其中拿出財物來去收藏了。
And when these lepers came to the uttermost part of the camp, they went into one tent, and did eat and drink, and carried thence silver, and gold, and raiment, and went and hid it; and came again, and entered into another tent, and carried thence also, and went and hid it.

7:9    那時，他們彼此說，我們所作的不好。今日是有好資訊的日子，我們竟不作聲。若等到天亮，罪必臨到我們。來吧，我們與王家報信去。
Then they said one to another, We do not well: this day is a day of good tidings, and we hold our peace: if we tarry till the morning light, some mischief will come upon us: now therefore come, that we may go and tell the king's household.

7:10    他們就去叫守城門的，告訴他們說，我們到了亞蘭人的營，不見一人在那裡，也無人聲，只有拴著的馬和驢，帳棚都照舊。
So they came and called unto the porter of the city: and they told them, saying, We came to the camp of the Syrians, and, behold, there was no man there, neither voice of man, but horses tied, and asses tied, and the tents as they were.

7:11    守城門的叫了眾守門的人來，他們就進去與王家報信。
And he called the porters; and they told it to the king's house within.

7:12    王夜間起來，對臣僕說，我告訴你們亞蘭人向我們如何行。他們知道我們飢餓，所以離營，埋伏在田野，說，以色列人出城的時候，我們就活捉他們，得以進城。
And the king arose in the night, and said unto his servants, I will now shew you what the Syrians have done to us. They know that we be hungry; therefore are they gone out of the camp to hide themselves in the field, saying, When they come out of the city, we shall catch them alive, and get into the city.

7:13    有一個臣僕對王說，我們不如用城裡剩下之馬中的五匹馬（馬和城裡剩下的以色列人都是一樣，快要滅絕），打發人去窺探。
And one of his servants answered and said, Let some take, I pray thee, five of the horses that remain, which are left in the city, (behold, they are as all the multitude of Israel that are left in it: behold, I say, they are even as all the multitude of the Israelites that are consumed:) and let us send and see.

7:14    於是取了兩輛車和馬，王差人去追尋亞蘭軍，說，你們去窺探窺探。
They took therefore two chariot horses; and the king sent after the host of the Syrians, saying, Go and see.

7:15    他們就追尋到約旦河，看見滿道上都是亞蘭人急跑時丟棄的衣服器具，使者就回來報告王。
And they went after them unto Jordan: and, lo, all the way was full of garments and vessels, which the Syrians had cast away in their haste. And the messengers returned, and told the king.

7:16    眾人就出去，擄掠亞蘭人的營盤。於是一細亞細面賣銀一舍客勒，二細亞大麥也賣銀一舍客勒，正如耶和華所說的。
And the people went out, and spoiled the tents of the Syrians. So a measure of fine flour was sold for a shekel, and two measures of barley for a shekel, according to the word of the LORD.

7:17    王派攙扶他的那軍長在城門口彈壓，眾人在那裡將他踐踏，他就死了，正如神人在王下來見他的時候所說的。
And the king appointed the lord on whose hand he leaned to have the charge of the gate: and the people trode upon him in the gate, and he died, as the man of God had said, who spake when the king came down to him.

7:18    神人曾對王說，明日約到這時候，在撒馬利亞城門口，二細亞大麥要賣銀一舍客勒，一細亞細面也要賣銀一舍客勒。
And it came to pass as the man of God had spoken to the king, saying, Two measures of barley for a shekel, and a measure of fine flour for a shekel, shall be to morrow about this time in the gate of Samaria:

7:19    那軍長對神人說，即便耶和華使天開了窗戶，也不能有這事。神人說，你必親眼看見，卻不得吃。
And that lord answered the man of God, and said, Now, behold, if the LORD should make windows in heaven, might such a thing be? And he said, Behold, thou shalt see it with thine eyes, but shalt not eat thereof.

7:20    這話果然應驗在他身上。因為眾人在城門口將他踐踏，他就死了。
And so it fell out unto him: for the people trode upon him in the gate, and he died.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


8:1    以利沙曾對所救活之子的那婦人說，你和你的全家要起身往你可住的地方去住，因為耶和華命饑荒降在這地七年。
Then spake Elisha unto the woman, whose son he had restored to life, saying, Arise, and go thou and thine household, and sojourn wheresoever thou canst sojourn: for the LORD hath called for a famine; and it shall also come upon the land seven years.

8:2    婦人就起身，照神人的話帶著全家往非利士地去，住了七年。
And the woman arose, and did after the saying of the man of God: and she went with her household, and sojourned in the land of the Philistines seven years.

8:3    七年完了，那婦人從非利士地回來，就出去為自己的房屋田地哀告王。
And it came to pass at the seven years' end, that the woman returned out of the land of the Philistines: and she went forth to cry unto the king for her house and for her land.

8:4    那時王正與神人的僕人基哈西說，請你將以利沙所行的一切大事告訴我。
And the king talked with Gehazi the servant of the man of God, saying, Tell me, I pray thee, all the great things that Elisha hath done.

8:5    基哈西告訴王以利沙如何使死人復活，恰巧以利沙所救活，她兒子的那婦人為自己的房屋田地來哀告王。基哈西說，我主我王，這就是那婦人，這是她的兒子，就是以利沙所救活的。
And it came to pass, as he was telling the king how he had restored a dead body to life, that, behold, the woman, whose son he had restored to life, cried to the king for her house and for her land. And Gehazi said, My lord, O king, this is the woman, and this is her son, whom Elisha restored to life.

8:6    王問那婦人，她就把那事告訴王。於是王為她派一個太監，說，凡屬這婦人的都還給她，自從她離開本地直到今日，她田地的出產也都還給她。
And when the king asked the woman, she told him. So the king appointed unto her a certain officer, saying, Restore all that was hers, and all the fruits of the field since the day that she left the land, even until now.

8:7    以利沙來到大馬士革，亞蘭王便哈達正患病。有人告訴王說，神人來到這裡了。
And Elisha came to Damascus; and Benhadad the king of Syria was sick; and it was told him, saying, The man of God is come hither.

8:8    王就吩咐哈薛說，你帶著禮物去見神人，託他求問耶和華，我這病能好不能好。
And the king said unto Hazael, Take a present in thine hand, and go, meet the man of God, and enquire of the LORD by him, saying, Shall I recover of this disease?

8:9    於是哈薛用四十個駱駝，馱著大馬士革的各樣美物為禮物，去見以利沙。到了他那裡，站在他面前，說，你兒子亞蘭王便哈達打發我來見你，他問說，我這病能好不能好。
So Hazael went to meet him, and took a present with him, even of every good thing of Damascus, forty camels' burden, and came and stood before him, and said, Thy son Benhadad king of Syria hath sent me to thee, saying, Shall I recover of this disease?

8:10    以利沙對哈薛說，你回去告訴他說，這病必能好。但耶和華指示我，他必要死。
And Elisha said unto him, Go, say unto him, Thou mayest certainly recover: howbeit the LORD hath shewed me that he shall surely die.

8:11    神人定睛看著哈薛，甚至他慚愧。神人就哭了。
And he settled his countenance stedfastly, until he was ashamed: and the man of God wept.

8:12    哈薛說，我主為什麼哭。回答說，因為我知道你必苦害以色列人，用火焚燒他們的保障，用刀殺死他們的壯丁，摔死他們的嬰孩，剖開他們的孕婦。
And Hazael said, Why weepeth my lord? And he answered, Because I know the evil that thou wilt do unto the children of Israel: their strong holds wilt thou set on fire, and their young men wilt thou slay with the sword, and wilt dash their children, and rip up their women with child.

8:13    哈薛說，你僕人算什麼，不過是一條狗，焉能行這大事呢。以利沙回答說，耶和華指示我，你必作亞蘭王。
And Hazael said, But what, is thy servant a dog, that he should do this great thing? And Elisha answered, The LORD hath shewed me that thou shalt be king over Syria.

8:14    哈薛離開以利沙，回去見他的主人。主人問他說，以利沙對你說什麼。回答說，他告訴我你必能好。
So he departed from Elisha, and came to his master; who said to him, What said Elisha to thee? And he answered, He told me that thou shouldest surely recover.

8:15    次日，哈薛拿被窩浸在水中，矇住王的臉，王就死了。於是哈薛篡了他的位。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that he took a thick cloth, and dipped it in water, and spread it on his face, so that he died: and Hazael reigned in his stead.

8:16    以色列王亞哈的兒子約蘭第五年，猶大王約沙法還在位的時候，約沙法的兒子約蘭登基作了猶大王。
And in the fifth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel, Jehoshaphat being then king of Judah, Jehoram the son of Je hoshaphat king of Judah began to reign.

8:17    約蘭登基的時候年三十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王八年。
Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.

8:18    他行以色列諸王所行的，與亞哈家一樣。因為他娶了亞哈的女兒為妻，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事。
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, as did the house of Ahab: for the daughter of Ahab was his wife: and he did evil in the sight of the LORD.

8:19    耶和華卻因他僕人大衛的緣故，仍不肯滅絕猶大，照他所應許大衛的話，永遠賜燈光與他的子孫。
Yet the LORD would not destroy Judah for David his servant's sake, as he promised him to give him alway a light, and to his children.

8:20    約蘭年間，以東人背叛猶大，脫離他的權下，自己立王。
In his days Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah, and made a king over themselves.

8:21    約蘭率領所有的戰車往撒益去，夜間起來，攻打圍困他的以東人和車兵長。猶大兵就逃跑，各回各家去了。
So Joram went over to Zair, and all the chariots with him: and he rose by night, and smote the Edomites which compassed him about, and the captains of the chariots: and the people fled into their tents.

8:22    這樣，以東人背叛猶大，脫離他的權下，直到今日。那時立拿人也背叛了。
Yet Edom revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this day. Then Libnah revolted at the same time.

8:23    約蘭其餘的事，凡他所行的，都寫在猶大列王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Joram, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

8:24    約蘭與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子亞哈謝接續他作王。
And Joram slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and Ahaziah his son reigned in his stead.

8:25    以色列王亞哈的兒子約蘭十二年，猶大王約蘭的兒子亞哈謝登基。
In the twelfth year of Joram the son of Ahab king of Israel did Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah begin to reign.

8:26    他登基的時候年二十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王一年。他母親名叫亞他利雅，是以色列王暗利的孫女。
Two and twenty years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign; and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Athaliah, the daughter of Omri king of Israel.

8:27    亞哈謝效法亞哈家行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，與亞哈家一樣，因為他是亞哈家的女婿。
And he walked in the way of the house of Ahab, and did evil in the sight of the LORD, as did the house of Ahab: for he was the son in law of the house of Ahab.

8:28    他與亞哈的兒子約蘭同往基列的拉末去，與亞蘭王哈薛爭戰。亞蘭人打傷了約蘭，
And he went with Joram the son of Ahab to the war against Hazael king of Syria in Ramothgilead; and the Syrians wounded Joram.

8:29    約蘭王回到耶斯列，醫治在拉末與亞蘭王哈薛打仗的時候所受的傷。猶大王約蘭的兒子亞哈謝因為亞哈的兒子約蘭病了，就下到耶斯列看望他。
And king Joram went back to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him at Ramah, when he fought against Hazael king of Syria. And Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Joram the son of Ahab in Jezreel, because he was sick.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


9:1    先知以利沙叫了一個先知門徒來，吩咐他說，你束上腰，手拿這瓶膏油往基列的拉末去。
And Elisha the prophet called one of the children of the prophets, and said unto him, Gird up thy loins, and take this box of oil in thine hand, and go to Ramothgilead:

9:2    到了那裡，要尋梢寧示的孫子，約沙法的兒子耶戶，使他從同僚中起來，帶他進嚴密的屋子，
And when thou comest thither, look out there Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi, and go in, and make him arise up from among his brethren, and carry him to an inner chamber;

9:3    將瓶裡的膏油倒在他頭上，說，耶和華如此說，我膏你作以色列王。說完了，就開門逃跑，不要遲延。
Then take the box of oil, and pour it on his head, and say, Thus saith the LORD, I have anointed thee king over Israel. Then open the door, and flee, and tarry not.

9:4    於是那少年先知往基列的拉末去了。
So the young man, even the young man the prophet, went to Ramothgilead.

9:5    到了那裡，看見眾軍長都坐著，就說，將軍哪，我有話對你說。耶戶說，我們眾人裡，你要對哪一個說呢。回答說，將軍哪，我要對你說。
And when he came, behold, the captains of the host were sitting; and he said, I have an errand to thee, O captain. And Jehu said, Unto which of all us? And he said, To thee, O captain.

9:6    耶戶就起來，進了屋子，少年人將膏油倒在他頭上，對他說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，我膏你作耶和華民以色列的王。
And he arose, and went into the house; and he poured the oil on his head, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, I have anointed thee king over the people of the LORD, even over Israel.

9:7    你要擊殺你主人亞哈的全家，我好在耶洗別身上伸我僕人眾先知和耶和華一切僕人流血的冤。
And thou shalt smite the house of Ahab thy master, that I may avenge the blood of my servants the prophets, and the blood of all the servants of the LORD, at the hand of Jezebel.

9:8    亞哈全家必都滅亡，凡屬亞哈的男丁，無論是困住的，自由的，我必從以色列中剪除，
For the whole house of Ahab shall perish: and I will cut off from Ahab him that pisseth against the wall, and him that is shut up and left in Israel:

9:9    使亞哈的家像尼八兒子耶羅波安的家，又像亞希雅兒子巴沙的家。
And I will make the house of Ahab like the house of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, and like the house of Baasha the son of Ahijah:

9:10    耶洗別必在耶斯列田裡被狗所吃，無人葬埋。說完了，少年人就開門逃跑了。
And the dogs shall eat Jezebel in the portion of Jezreel, and there shall be none to bury her. And he opened the door, and fled.

9:11    耶戶出來，回到他主人的臣僕那裡，有一人問他說，平安嗎。這狂妄的人來見你有什麼事呢。回答說，你們認得那人，也知道他說什麼。
Then Jehu came forth to the servants of his lord: and one said unto him, Is all well? wherefore came this mad fellow to thee? And he said unto them, Ye know the man, and his communication.

9:12    他們說，這是假話，你據實地告訴我們。回答說，他如此如此對我說。他說，耶和華如此說，我膏你作以色列王。
And they said, It is false; tell us now. And he said, Thus and thus spake he to me, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I have anointed thee king over Israel.

9:13    他們就急忙各將自己的衣服鋪在上層臺階，使耶戶坐在其上。他們吹角，說，耶戶作王了。
Then they hasted, and took every man his garment, and put it under him on the top of the stairs, and blew with trumpets, saying, Jehu is king.

9:14    這樣，寧示的孫子，約沙法的兒子耶戶背叛約蘭。先是約蘭和以色列眾人因為亞蘭王哈薛的緣故，把守基列的拉末。
So Jehu the son of Jehoshaphat the son of Nimshi conspired against Joram. (Now Joram had kept Ramothgilead, he and all Israel, because of Hazael king of Syria.

9:15    但約蘭王回到耶斯列，醫治與亞蘭王哈薛打仗所受的傷。耶戶說，若合你們的意思，就不容人逃出城往耶斯列報信去。
But king Joram was returned to be healed in Jezreel of the wounds which the Syrians had given him, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria.) And Jehu said, If it be your minds, then let none go forth nor escape out of the city to go to tell it in Jezreel.

9:16    於是耶戶坐車往耶斯列去，因為約蘭病臥在那裡。猶大王亞哈謝已經下去看望他。
So Jehu rode in a chariot, and went to Jezreel; for Joram lay there. And Ahaziah king of Judah was come down to see Joram.

9:17    有一個守望的人站在耶斯列的樓上，看見耶戶帶著一群人來，就說，我看見一群人。約蘭說，打發一個騎馬的去迎接他們，問說，平安不平安。
And there stood a watchman on the tower in Jezreel, and he spied the company of Jehu as he came, and said, I see a company. And Joram said, Take an horseman, and send to meet them, and let him say, Is it peace?

9:18    騎馬的就去迎接耶戶，說，王問說，平安不平安。耶戶說，平安不平安與你何干。你轉在我後頭吧。守望的人又說，使者到了他們那裡，卻不回來。
So there went one on horseback to meet him, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu said, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me. And the watchman told, saying, The messenger came to them, but he cometh not again.

9:19    王又打發一個騎馬的去。這人到了他們那裡，說，王問說，平安不平安。耶戶說，平安不平安與你何干。你轉在我後頭吧。
Then he sent out a second on horseback, which came to them, and said, Thus saith the king, Is it peace? And Jehu answered, What hast thou to do with peace? turn thee behind me.

9:20    守望的人又說，他到了他們那裡，也不回來。車趕得甚猛，像寧示的孫子耶戶的趕法。
And the watchman told, saying, He came even unto them, and cometh not again: and the driving is like the driving of Jehu the son of Nimshi; for he driveth furiously.

9:21    約蘭吩咐說，套車。人就給他套車。以色列王約蘭和猶大王亞哈謝各坐自己的車出去迎接耶戶，在耶斯列人拿伯的田那裡遇見他。
And Joram said, Make ready. And his chariot was made ready. And Joram king of Israel and Ahaziah king of Judah went out, each in his chariot, and they went out against Jehu, and met him in the portion of Naboth the Jezreelite.

9:22    約蘭見耶戶就說，耶戶阿，平安嗎。耶戶說，你母親耶洗別的淫行邪術這樣多，焉能平安呢。
And it came to pass, when Joram saw Jehu, that he said, Is it peace, Jehu? And he answered, What peace, so long as the whoredoms of thy mother Jezebel and her witchcrafts are so many?

9:23    約蘭就轉車逃跑，對亞哈謝說，亞哈謝阿，反了。
And Joram turned his hands, and fled, and said to Ahaziah, There is treachery, O Ahaziah.

9:24    耶戶開滿了弓，射中約蘭的脊背，箭從心窩穿出，約蘭就仆倒在車上。
And Jehu drew a bow with his full strength, and smote Jehoram between his arms, and the arrow went out at his heart, and he sunk down in his chariot.

9:25    耶戶對他的軍長畢甲說，你把他拋在耶斯列人拿伯的田間。你當追想，你我一同坐車跟隨他父亞哈的時候，耶和華對亞哈所說的預言，
Then said Jehu to Bidkar his captain, Take up, and cast him in the portion of the field of Naboth the Jezreelite: for remember how that, when I and thou rode together after Ahab his father, the LORD laid this burden upon him;

9:26    說，我昨日看見拿伯的血和他眾子的血，我必在這塊田上報應你。這是耶和華說的，現在你要照著耶和華的話，把他拋在這田間。
Surely I have seen yesterday the blood of Naboth, and the blood of his sons, saith the LORD; and I will requite thee in this plat, saith the LORD. Now therefore take and cast him into the plat of ground, according to the word of the LORD.

9:27    猶大王亞哈謝見這光景，就從園亭之路逃跑。耶戶追趕他，說，把這人也殺在車上。到了靠近以伯蓮的姑珥坡上擊傷了他。他逃到米吉多，就死在那裡。
But when Ahaziah the king of Judah saw this, he fled by the way of the garden house. And Jehu followed after him, and said, Smite him also in the chariot. And they did so at the going up to Gur, which is by Ibleam. And he fled to Megiddo, and died there.

9:28    他的臣僕用車將他的屍首送到耶路撒冷，葬在大衛城他自己的墳墓裡，與他列祖同葬。
And his servants carried him in a chariot to Jerusalem, and buried him in his sepulchre with his fathers in the city of David.

9:29    亞哈謝登基作猶大王的時候，是在亞哈的兒子約蘭第十一年。
And in the eleventh year of Joram the son of Ahab began Ahaziah to reign over Judah.

9:30    耶戶到了耶斯列。耶洗別聽見就擦粉，梳頭，從窗戶裡往外觀看。
And when Jehu was come to Jezreel, Jezebel heard of it; and she painted her face, and tired her head, and looked out at a window.

9:31    耶戶進門的時候，耶洗別說，殺主人的心利阿，平安嗎。
And as Jehu entered in at the gate, she said, Had Zimri peace, who slew his master?

9:32    耶戶抬頭向窗戶觀看，說，誰順從我。有兩三個太監從窗戶往外看他。
And he lifted up his face to the window, and said, Who is on my side? who? And there looked out to him two or three eunuchs.

9:33    耶戶說，把她扔下來。他們就把她扔下來。她的血濺在牆上和馬上。於是把她踐踏了。
And he said, Throw her down. So they threw her down: and some of her blood was sprinkled on the wall, and on the horses: and he trode her under foot.

9:34    耶戶進去，吃了喝了，吩咐說，你們把這被咒詛的婦人葬埋了，因為她是王的女兒。
And when he was come in, he did eat and drink, and said, Go, see now this cursed woman, and bury her: for she is a king's daughter.

9:35    他們就去葬埋她，只尋得她的頭骨和腳，並手掌。
And they went to bury her: but they found no more of her than the skull, and the feet, and the palms of her hands.

9:36    他們回去告訴耶戶，耶戶說，這正應驗耶和華藉他僕人提斯比人以利亞所說的話，說，在耶斯列田間，狗必吃耶洗別的肉。
Wherefore they came again, and told him. And he said, This is the word of the LORD, which he spake by his servant Elijah the Tishbite, saying, In the portion of Jezreel shall dogs eat the flesh of Jezebel:

9:37    耶洗別的屍首必在耶斯列田間如同糞土，甚至人不能說這是耶洗別。
And the carcase of Jezebel shall be as dung upon the face of the field in the portion of Jezreel; so that they shall not say, This is Jezebel.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


10:1    亞哈有七十個兒子在撒馬利亞。耶戶寫信送到撒馬利亞，通知耶斯列的首領，就是長老和教養亞哈眾子的人，說，
And Ahab had seventy sons in Samaria. And Jehu wrote letters, and sent to Samaria, unto the rulers of Jezreel, to the elders, and to them that brought up Ahab's children, saying,

10:2    你們那裡既有你們主人的眾子和車馬，器械，堅固城，
Now as soon as this letter cometh to you, seeing your master's sons are with you, and there are with you chariots and horses, a fenced city also, and armour;

10:3    接了這信，就可以在你們主人的眾子中選擇一個賢能合宜的，使他坐他父親的位，你們也可以為你們主人的家爭戰。
Look even out the best and meetest of your master's sons, and set him on his father's throne, and fight for your master's house.

10:4    他們卻甚懼怕，彼此說，二王在他面前尚且站立不住，我們怎能站得住呢。
But they were exceedingly afraid, and said, Behold, two kings stood not before him: how then shall we stand?

10:5    家宰，邑宰，和長老，並教養眾子的人，打發人去見耶戶，說，我們是你的僕人，凡你所吩咐我們的都必遵行，我們不立誰作王，你看怎樣好就怎樣行。
And he that was over the house, and he that was over the city, the elders also, and the bringers up of the children, sent to Jehu, saying, We are thy servants, and will do all that thou shalt bid us; we will not make any king: do thou that which is good in thine eyes.

10:6    耶戶又給他們寫信說，你們若歸順我，聽從我的話，明日這時候，要將你們主人眾子的首級帶到耶斯列來見我。那時王的兒子七十人都住在教養他們那城中的尊貴人家裡。
Then he wrote a letter the second time to them, saying, If ye be mine, and if ye will hearken unto my voice, take ye the heads of the men your master's sons, and come to me to Jezreel by to morrow this time. Now the king's sons, being seventy persons, were with the great men of the city, which brought them up.

10:7    信一到，他們就把王的七十個兒子殺了，將首級裝在筐裡，送到在耶斯列的耶戶那裡。
And it came to pass, when the letter came to them, that they took the king's sons, and slew seventy persons, and put their heads in baskets, and sent him them to Jezreel.

10:8    有使者來告訴耶戶說，他們將王眾子的首級送來了。耶戶說，將首級在城門口堆作兩堆，擱到明日。
And there came a messenger, and told him, saying, They have brought the heads of the king's sons. And he said, Lay ye them in two heaps at the entering in of the gate until the morning.

10:9    次日早晨，耶戶出來，站著對眾民說，你們都是公義的，我背叛我主人，將他殺了。這些人卻是誰殺的呢。
And it came to pass in the morning, that he went out, and stood, and said to all the people, Ye be righteous: behold, I conspired against my master, and slew him: but who slew all these?

10:10    由此可知，耶和華指著亞哈家所說的話一句沒有落空，因為耶和華藉他僕人以利亞所說的話都成就了。
Know now that there shall fall unto the earth nothing of the word of the LORD, which the LORD spake concerning the house of Ahab: for the LORD hath done that which he spake by his servant Elijah.

10:11    凡亞哈家在耶斯列所剩下的人和他的大臣，密友，祭司，耶戶盡都殺了，沒有留下一個。
So Jehu slew all that remained of the house of Ahab in Jezreel, and all his great men, and his kinsfolks, and his priests, until he left him none remaining.

10:12    耶戶起身往撒馬利亞去。在路上，牧人剪羊毛之處，
And he arose and departed, and came to Samaria. And as he was at the shearing house in the way,



10:13    遇見猶大王亞哈謝的弟兄，問他們說，你們是誰。回答說，我們是亞哈謝的弟兄，現在下去要問王和太后的眾子安。
Jehu met with the brethren of Ahaziah king of Judah, and said, Who are ye? And they answered, We are the brethren of Ahaziah; and we go down to salute the children of the king and the children of the queen.

10:14    耶戶吩咐說，活捉他們。跟從的人就活捉了他們，將他們殺在剪羊毛之處的坑邊，共四十二人，沒有留下一個。
And he said, Take them alive. And they took them alive, and slew them at the pit of the shearing house, even two and forty men; neither left he any of them.

10:15    耶戶從那裡前行，恰遇利甲的兒子約拿達來迎接他，耶戶問他安，對他說，你誠心待我像我誠心待你嗎。約拿達回答說，是。耶戶說，若是這樣，你向我伸手，他就伸手。耶戶拉他上車。
And when he was departed thence, he lighted on Jehonadab the son of Rechab coming to meet him: and he saluted him, and said to him, Is thine heart right, as my heart is with thy heart? And Jehonadab answered, It is. If it be, give me thine hand. And he gave him his hand; and he took him up to him into the chariot.

10:16    耶戶說，你和我同去，看我為耶和華怎樣熱心。於是請他坐在車上，
And he said, Come with me, and see my zeal for the LORD. So they made him ride in his chariot.

10:17    到了撒馬利亞，就把撒馬利亞的亞哈家剩下的人都殺了，直到滅盡，正如耶和華對以利亞所說的。
And when he came to Samaria, he slew all that remained unto Ahab in Samaria, till he had destroyed him, according to the saying of the LORD, which he spake to Elijah.

10:18    耶戶招聚眾民，對他們說，亞哈事奉巴力還冷淡，耶戶卻更熱心。
And Jehu gathered all the people together, and said unto them, Ahab served Baal a little; but Jehu shall serve him much.

10:19    現在我要給巴力獻大祭。應當叫巴力的眾先知和一切拜巴力的人，並巴力的眾祭司，都到我這裡來，不可缺少一個。凡不來的必不得活。耶戶這樣行，是用詭計要殺盡拜巴力的人。
Now therefore call unto me all the prophets of Baal, all his servants, and all his priests; let none be wanting: for I have a great sacrifice to do to Baal; whosoever shall be wanting, he shall not live. But Jehu did it in subtilty, to the intent that he might destroy the worshippers of Baal.

10:20    耶戶說，要為巴力宣告嚴肅會。於是宣告了。
And Jehu said, Proclaim a solemn assembly for Baal. And they proclaimed it.

10:21    耶戶差人走遍以色列地。凡拜巴力的人都來齊了，沒有一個不來的。他們進了巴力廟，巴力廟中從前邊直到後邊都滿了人。
And Jehu sent through all Israel: and all the worshippers of Baal came, so that there was not a man left that came not. And they came into the house of Baal; and the house of Baal was full from one end to another.

10:22    耶戶吩咐掌管禮服的人說，拿出禮服來，給一切拜巴力的人穿。他就拿出禮服來給了他們。
And he said unto him that was over the vestry, Bring forth vestments for all the worshippers of Baal. And he brought them forth vestments.

10:23    耶戶和利甲的兒子約拿達進了巴力廟，對拜巴力的人說，你們察看察看，在你們這裡不可有耶和華的僕人，只可容留拜巴力的人。
And Jehu went, and Jehonadab the son of Rechab, into the house of Baal, and said unto the worshippers of Baal, Search, and look that there be here with you none of the servants of the LORD, but the worshippers of Baal only.

10:24    耶戶和約拿達進去，獻平安祭和燔祭。耶戶先安排八十人在廟外，吩咐說，我將這些人交在你們手中，若有一人脫逃，誰放的必叫他償命。
And when they went in to offer sacrifices and burnt offerings, Jehu appointed fourscore men without, and said, If any of the men whom I have brought into your hands escape, he that letteth him go, his life shall be for the life of him.

10:25    耶戶獻完了燔祭，就出來吩咐護衛兵和眾軍長說，你們進去殺他們，不容一人出來。護衛兵和軍長就用刀殺他們，將屍首丟擲去，便到巴力廟的城去了，
And it came to pass, as soon as he had made an end of offering the burnt offering, that Jehu said to the guard and to the captains, Go in, and slay them; let none come forth. And they smote them with the edge of the sword; and the guard and the captains cast them out, and went to the city of the house of Baal.

10:26    將巴力廟中的柱像都拿出來燒了。
And they brought forth the images out of the house of Baal, and burned them.

10:27    毀壞了巴力柱像，拆毀了巴力廟作為廁所，直到今日。
And they brake down the image of Baal, and brake down the house of Baal, and made it a draught house unto this day.

10:28    這樣，耶戶在以色列中滅了巴力。
Thus Jehu destroyed Baal out of Israel.

10:29    只是耶戶不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪，就是拜伯特利和但的金牛犢。
Howbeit from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, Jehu departed not from after them, to wit, the golden calves that were in Bethel, and that were in Dan.

10:30    耶和華對耶戶說，因你辦好我眼中看為正的事，照我的心意待亞哈家，你的子孫必接續你坐以色列的國位，直到四代。
And the LORD said unto Jehu, Because thou hast done well in executing that which is right in mine eyes, and hast done unto the house of Ahab according to all that was in mine heart, thy children of the fourth generation shall sit on the throne of Israel.

10:31    只是耶戶不盡心遵守耶和華以色列神的律法，不離開耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
But Jehu took no heed to walk in the law of the LORD God of Israel with all his heart: for he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam, which made Israel to sin.

10:32    在那些日子，耶和華才割裂以色列國，使哈薛攻擊以色列的境界，
In those days the LORD began to cut Israel short: and Hazael smote them in all the coasts of Israel;

10:33    乃是約旦河東，基列全地，從靠近亞嫩谷邊的亞羅珥起，就是基列和巴珊的迦得人，流便人，瑪拿西人之地。
From Jordan eastward, all the land of Gilead, the Gadites, and the Reubenites, and the Manassites, from Aroer, which is by the river Arnon, even Gilead and Bashan.

10:34    耶戶其餘的事，凡他所行的和他的勇力都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehu, and all that he did, and all his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

10:35    耶戶與他列祖同睡，葬在撒馬利亞。他兒子約哈斯接續他作王。
And Jehu slept with his fathers: and they buried him in Samaria. And Jehoahaz his son reigned in his stead.

10:36    耶戶在撒馬利亞作以色列王二十八年。
And the time that Jehu reigned over Israel in Samaria was twenty and eight years.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


11:1    亞哈謝的母親亞他利雅見她兒子死了，就起來剿滅王室。
And when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal.

11:2    但約蘭王的女兒，亞哈謝的妹子約示巴，將亞哈謝的兒子約阿施從那被殺的王子中偷出來，把他和他的乳母都藏在臥房裡，躲避亞他利雅，免得被殺。
But Jehosheba, the daughter of king Joram, sister of Ahaziah, took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king's sons which were slain; and they hid him, even him and his nurse, in the bedchamber from Athaliah, so that he was not slain.

11:3    約阿施和他的乳母藏在耶和華的殿裡六年。亞他利雅篡了國位。
And he was with her hid in the house of the LORD six years. And Athaliah did reign over the land.

11:4    第七年，耶何耶大打發人叫迦利人（或作親兵）和護衛兵的眾百夫長來，領他們進了耶和華的殿，與他們立約，使他們在耶和華殿裡起誓，又將王的兒子指給他們看，
And the seventh year Jehoiada sent and fetched the rulers over hundreds, with the captains and the guard, and brought them to him into the house of the LORD, and made a covenant with them, and took an oath of them in the house of the LORD, and shewed them the king's son.

11:5    吩咐他們說，你們當這樣行，凡安息日進班的三分之一要看守王宮，
And he commanded them, saying, This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you that enter in on the sabbath shall even be keepers of the watch of the king's house;

11:6    三分之一要在蘇珥門，三分之一要在護衛兵院的後門。這樣把守王宮，攔阻閒人。
And a third part shall be at the gate of Sur; and a third part at the gate behind the guard: so shall ye keep the watch of the house, that it be not broken down.

11:7    你們安息日所有出班的三分之二要在耶和華的殿裡護衛王。
And two parts of all you that go forth on the sabbath, even they shall keep the watch of the house of the LORD about the king.

11:8    各人手拿兵器，四圍護衛王。凡擅入你們班次的必當治死，王出入的時候，你們當跟隨他。
And ye shall compass the king round about, every man with his weapons in his hand: and he that cometh within the ranges, let him be slain: and be ye with the king as he goeth out and as he cometh in.

11:9    眾百夫長就照著祭司耶何耶大一切所吩咐的去行，各帶所管安息日進班出班的人來見祭司耶何耶大。
And the captains over the hundreds did according to all things that Jehoiada the priest commanded: and they took every man his men that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that should go out on the sabbath, and came to Jehoiada the priest.

11:10    祭司便將耶和華殿裡所藏大衛王的槍和盾牌交給百夫長。
And to the captains over hundreds did the priest give king David's spears and shields, that were in the temple of the LORD.

11:11    護衛兵手中各拿兵器，在壇和殿那裡，從殿右直到殿左，站在王子的四圍。
And the guard stood, every man with his weapons in his hand, round about the king, from the right corner of the temple to the left corner of the temple, along by the altar and the temple.

11:12    祭司領王子出來，給他戴上冠冕，將律法書交給他，膏他作王。眾人就拍掌說，願王萬歲。
And he brought forth the king's son, and put the crown upon him, and gave him the testimony; and they made him king, and anointed him; and they clapped their hands, and said, God save the king.

11:13    亞他利雅聽見護衛兵和民的聲音，就到民那裡，進耶和華的殿，
And when Athaliah heard the noise of the guard and of the people, she came to the people into the temple of the LORD.

11:14    看見王照例站在柱旁，百夫長和吹號的人侍立在王左右，國中的眾民歡樂吹號。亞他利雅就撕裂衣服，喊叫說，反了。反了。
And when she looked, behold, the king stood by a pillar, as the manner was, and the princes and the trumpeters by the king, and all the people of the land rejoiced, and blew with trumpets: and Athaliah rent her clothes, and cried, Treason, Treason.

11:15    祭司耶何耶大吩咐管轄軍兵的百夫長說，將她趕出班外，凡跟隨她的必用刀殺死。因為祭司說不可在耶和華殿裡殺她，
But Jehoiada the priest commanded the captains of the hundreds, the officers of the host, and said unto them, Have her forth without the ranges: and him that followeth her kill with the sword. For the priest had said, Let her not be slain in the house of the LORD.

11:16    眾兵就閃開讓她去。她從馬路上王宮去，便在那裡被殺。
And they laid hands on her; and she went by the way by the which the horses came into the king's house: and there was she slain.

11:17    耶何耶大使王和民與耶和華立約，作耶和華的民。又使王與民立約。
And Jehoiada made a covenant between the LORD and the king and the people, that they should be the LORD's people; between the king also and the people.

11:18    於是國民都到巴力廟，拆毀了廟，打碎壇和像，又在壇前將巴力的祭司瑪坦殺了。祭司耶何耶大派官看守耶和華的殿，
And all the people of the land went into the house of Baal, and brake it down; his altars and his images brake they in pieces thoroughly, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars. And the priest appointed officers over the house of the LORD.

11:19    又率領百夫長和迦利人（或作親兵）與護衛兵，以及國中的眾民，請王從耶和華殿下來，由護衛兵的門進入王宮，他就坐了王位。
And he took the rulers over hundreds, and the captains, and the guard, and all the people of the land; and they brought down the king from the house of the LORD, and came by the way of the gate of the guard to the king's house. And he sat on the throne of the kings.

11:20    國民都歡樂，合城都安靜。眾人已將亞他利雅在王宮那裡用刀殺了。
And all the people of the land rejoiced, and the city was in quiet: and they slew Athaliah with the sword beside the king's house.

11:21    約阿施登基的時候年方七歲。
Seven years old was Jehoash when he began to reign.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


12:1    耶戶第七年，約阿施登基，在耶路撒冷作王四十年。他母親名叫西比亞，是別是巴人。
In the seventh year of Jehu Jehoash began to reign; and forty years reigned he in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zibiah of Beersheba.

12:2    約阿施在祭司耶何耶大教訓他的時候，就行耶和華眼中看為正的事。
And Jehoash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all his days wherein Jehoiada the priest instructed him.

12:3    只是邱壇還沒有廢去，百姓仍在那裡獻祭燒香。
But the high places were not taken away: the people still sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places.

12:4    約阿施對眾祭司說，凡奉到耶和華殿分別為聖之物所值通用的銀子，或各人當納的身價，或樂意奉到耶和華殿的銀子，
And Jehoash said to the priests, All the money of the dedicated things that is brought into the house of the LORD, even the money of every one that passeth the account, the money that every man is set at, and all the money that cometh into any man's heart to bring into the house of the LORD,

12:5    你們當從所認識的人收了來，修理殿的一切破壞之處。
Let the priests take it to them, every man of his acquaintance: and let them repair the breaches of the house, wheresoever any breach shall be found.

12:6    無奈到了約阿施王二十三年，祭司仍未修理殿的破壞之處。
But it was so, that in the three and twentieth year of king Jehoash the priests had not repaired the breaches of the house.

12:7    所以約阿施王召了大祭司耶何耶大和眾祭司來，對他們說，你們怎嗎不修理殿的破壞之處呢。從今以後，你們不要從所認識的人再收銀子，要將所收的交出來，修理殿的破壞之處。
Then king Jehoash called for Jehoiada the priest, and the other priests, and said unto them, Why repair ye not the breaches of the house? now therefore receive no more money of your acquaintance, but deliver it for the breaches of the house.

12:8    眾祭司答應不再收百姓的銀子，也不修理殿的破壞之處。
And the priests consented to receive no more money of the people, neither to repair the breaches of the house.

12:9    祭司耶何耶大取了一個櫃子，在櫃蓋上鑽了一個窟窿，放於壇旁，在進耶和華殿的右邊。守門的祭司將奉到耶和華殿的一切銀子投在櫃裡。
But Jehoiada the priest took a chest, and bored a hole in the lid of it, and set it beside the altar, on the right side as one cometh into the house of the LORD: and the priests that kept the door put therein all the money that was brought into the house of the LORD.

12:10    他們見櫃裡的銀子多了，便叫王的書記和大祭司上來，將耶和華殿裡的銀子數算包起來。
And it was so, when they saw that there was much money in the chest, that the king's scribe and the high priest came up, and they put up in bags, and told the money that was found in the house of the LORD.

12:11    把所平的銀子交給督工的，就是耶和華殿裡辦事的人。他們把銀子轉交修理耶和華殿的木匠和工人，
And they gave the money, being told, into the hands of them that did the work, that had the oversight of the house of the LORD: and they laid it out to the carpenters and builders, that wrought upon the house of the LORD,

12:12    並瓦匠，石匠，又買木料和鑿成的石頭，修理耶和華殿的破壞之處，以及修理殿的各樣使用。
And to masons, and hewers of stone, and to buy timber and hewed stone to repair the breaches of the house of the LORD, and for all that was laid out for the house to repair it.

12:13    但那奉到耶和華殿的銀子，沒有用以作耶和華殿裡的銀盃，臘剪，碗，號，和別樣的金銀器皿，
Howbeit there were not made for the house of the LORD bowls of silver, snuffers, basons, trumpets, any vessels of gold, or vessels of silver, of the money that was brought into the house of the LORD:

12:14    乃將那銀子交給督工的人修理耶和華的殿。
But they gave that to the workmen, and repaired therewith the house of the LORD.

12:15    且將銀子交給辦事的人轉交作工的人，不與他們算賬，因為他們辦事誠實。
Moreover they reckoned not with the men, into whose hand they delivered the money to be bestowed on workmen: for they dealt faithfully.

12:16    惟有贖愆祭，贖罪祭的銀子沒有奉到耶和華的殿，都歸祭司。
The trespass money and sin money was not brought into the house of the LORD: it was the priests'.

12:17    那時，亞蘭王哈薛上來攻打迦特，攻取了，就定意上來攻打耶路撒冷。
Then Hazael king of Syria went up, and fought against Gath, and took it: and Hazael set his face to go up to Jerusalem.

12:18    猶大王約阿施將他列祖猶大王約沙法，約蘭，亞哈謝所分別為聖的物和自己所分別為聖的物，並耶和華殿與王宮府庫裡所有的金子都送給亞蘭王哈薛。哈薛就不上耶路撒冷來了。
And Jehoash king of Judah took all the hallowed things that Jehoshaphat, and Jehoram, and Ahaziah, his fathers, kings of Judah, had dedicated, and his own hallowed things, and all the gold that was found in the treasures of the house of the LORD, and in the king's house, and sent it to Hazael king of Syria: and he went away from Jerusalem.

12:19    約阿施其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在猶大列王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

12:20    約阿施的臣僕起來背叛，在下悉拉的米羅宮那裡將他殺了。
And his servants arose, and made a conspiracy, and slew Joash in the house of Millo, which goeth down to Silla.

12:21    殺他的那臣僕就是示米押的兒子約撒甲和朔默的兒子約薩拔。眾人將他葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子亞瑪謝接續他作王。
For Jozachar the son of Shimeath, and Jehozabad the son of Shomer, his servants, smote him, and he died; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


13:1    猶大王亞哈謝的兒子約阿施二十三年，耶戶的兒子約哈斯在撒馬利亞登基作以色列王十七年。
In the three and twentieth year of Joash the son of Ahaziah king of Judah Jehoahaz the son of Jehu began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned seventeen years.

13:2    約哈斯行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪，總不離開。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, and followed the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, which made Israel to sin; he departed not therefrom.

13:3    於是，耶和華的怒氣向以色列人發作，將他們屢次交在亞蘭王哈薛和他兒子便哈達的手裡。
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Israel, and he delivered them into the hand of Hazael king of Syria, and into the hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael, all their days.

13:4    約哈斯懇求耶和華，耶和華就應允他，因為見以色列人所受亞蘭王的欺壓。
And Jehoahaz besought the LORD, and the LORD hearkened unto him: for he saw the oppression of Israel, because the king of Syria oppressed them.

13:5    耶和華賜給以色列人一位拯救者，使他們脫離亞蘭人的手。於是以色列人仍舊安居在家裡。
(And the LORD gave Israel a saviour, so that they went out from under the hand of the Syrians: and the children of Israel dwelt in their tents, as beforetime.

13:6    然而他們不離開耶羅波安家使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪，仍然去行，並且在撒馬利亞留下亞舍拉。
Nevertheless they departed not from the sins of the house of Jeroboam, who made Israel sin, but walked therein: and there remained the grove also in Samaria.)

13:7    亞蘭王滅絕約哈斯的民，踐踏他們如禾場上的塵沙，只給約哈斯留下五十馬兵，十輛戰車，一萬步兵。
Neither did he leave of the people to Jehoahaz but fifty horsemen, and ten chariots, and ten thousand footmen; for the king of Syria had destroyed them, and had made them like the dust by threshing.

13:8    約哈斯其餘的事，凡他所行的和他的勇力都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoahaz, and all that he did, and his might, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

13:9    約哈斯與他列祖同睡，葬在撒馬利亞。他兒子約阿施接續他作王。
And Jehoahaz slept with his fathers; and they buried him in Samaria: and Joash his son reigned in his stead.

13:10    猶大王約阿施三十七年，約哈斯的兒子約阿施在撒馬利亞登基作以色列王十六年。
In the thirty and seventh year of Joash king of Judah began Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned sixteen years.

13:11    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的一切罪，仍然去行。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD; he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel sin: but he walked therein.

13:12    約阿施其餘的事，凡他所行的和他與猶大王亞瑪謝爭戰的勇力，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Joash, and all that he did, and his might wherewith he fought against Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

13:13    約阿施與他列祖同睡，耶羅波安坐了他的位。約阿施與以色列諸王一同葬在撒馬利亞。
And Joash slept with his fathers; and Jeroboam sat upon his throne: and Joash was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel.

13:14    以利沙得了必死的病，以色列王約阿施下來看他，伏在他臉上哭泣，說，我父阿。我父阿。以色列的戰車馬兵阿。
Now Elisha was fallen sick of his sickness whereof he died. And Joash the king of Israel came down unto him, and wept over his face, and said, O my father, my father, the chariot of Israel, and the horsemen thereof.

13:15    以利沙對他說，你取弓箭來。王就取了弓箭來。
And Elisha said unto him, Take bow and arrows. And he took unto him bow and arrows.

13:16    又對以色列王說，你用手拿弓。王就用手拿弓。以利沙按手在王的手上，
And he said to the king of Israel, Put thine hand upon the bow. And he put his hand upon it: and Elisha put his hands upon the king's hands.

13:17    說，你開朝東的窗戶。他就開了。以利沙說，射箭吧。他就射箭。以利沙說，這是耶和華的得勝箭，就是戰勝亞蘭人的箭。因為你必在亞弗攻打亞蘭人，直到滅盡他們。
And he said, Open the window eastward. And he opened it. Then Elisha said, Shoot. And he shot. And he said, The arrow of the LORD's deliverance, and the arrow of deliverance from Syria: for thou shalt smite the Syrians in Aphek, till thou have consumed them.

13:18    以利沙又說，取幾枝箭來。他就取了來。以利沙說，打地吧。他打了三次，便止住了。
And he said, Take the arrows. And he took them. And he said unto the king of Israel, Smite upon the ground. And he smote thrice, and stayed.

13:19    神人向他發怒，說，應當擊打五六次，就能攻打亞蘭人直到滅盡。現在只能打敗亞蘭人三次。
And the man of God was wroth with him, and said, Thou shouldest have smitten five or six times; then hadst thou smitten Syria till thou hadst consumed it: whereas now thou shalt smite Syria but thrice.

13:20    以利沙死了，人將他葬埋。到了新年，有一群摩押人犯境，
And Elisha died, and they buried him. And the bands of the Moabites invaded the land at the coming in of the year.

13:21    有人正葬死人，忽然看見一群人，就把死人拋在以利沙的墳墓裡，一碰著以利沙的骸骨，死人就復活，站起來了。
And it came to pass, as they were burying a man, that, behold, they spied a band of men; and they cast the man into the sepulchre of Elisha: and when the man was let down, and touched the bones of Elisha, he revived, and stood up on his feet.

13:22    約哈斯年間，亞蘭王哈薛屢次欺壓以色列人。
But Hazael king of Syria oppressed Israel all the days of Jehoahaz.

13:23    耶和華卻因與亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各所立的約，仍施恩給以色列人，憐恤他們，眷顧他們，不肯滅盡他們，尚未趕逐他們離開自己面前。
And the LORD was gracious unto them, and had compassion on them, and had respect unto them, because of his covenant with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, and would not destroy them, neither cast he them from his presence as yet.

13:24    亞蘭王哈薛死了，他兒子便哈達接續他作王。
So Hazael king of Syria died; and Benhadad his son reigned in his stead.

13:25    從前哈薛和約阿施的父親約哈斯爭戰，攻取了些城邑，現在約哈斯的兒子約阿施三次打敗哈薛的兒子便哈達，就收回了以色列的城邑。
And Jehoash the son of Jehoahaz took again out of the hand of Benhadad the son of Hazael the cities, which he had taken out of the hand of Jehoahaz his father by war. Three times did Joash beat him, and recovered the cities of Israel.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


14:1    以色列王約哈斯的兒子約阿施第二年，猶大王約阿施的兒子亞瑪謝登基。
In the second year of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel reigned Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah.

14:2    他登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王二十九年。他母親名叫約耶但，是耶路撒冷人。
He was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

14:3    亞瑪謝行耶和華眼中看為正的事，但不如他祖大衛，乃效法他父約阿施一切所行的。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, yet not like David his father: he did according to all things as Joash his father did.

14:4    只是邱壇還沒有廢去，百姓仍在那裡獻祭燒香。
Howbeit the high places were not taken away: as yet the people did sacrifice and burnt incense on the high places.

14:5    國一堅定，就把殺他父王的臣僕殺了，
And it came to pass, as soon as the kingdom was confirmed in his hand, that he slew his servants which had slain the king his father.

14:6    卻沒有治死殺王之人的兒子，是照摩西律法書上耶和華所吩咐的說，不可因子殺父，也不可因父殺子，各人要為本身的罪而死。
But the children of the murderers he slew not: according unto that which is written in the book of the law of Moses, wherein the LORD commanded, saying, The fathers shall not be put to death for the children, nor the children be put to death for the fathers; but every man shall be put to death for his own sin.

14:7    亞瑪謝在鹽谷殺了以東人一萬，又攻取了西拉，改名叫約帖，直到今日。
He slew of Edom in the valley of salt ten thousand, and took Selah by war, and called the name of it Joktheel unto this day.

14:8    那時，亞瑪謝差遣使者去見耶戶的孫子約哈斯的兒子以色列王約阿施，說，你來，我們二人相見於戰場。
Then Amaziah sent messengers to Jehoash, the son of Jehoahaz son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us look one another in the face.

14:9    以色列王約阿施差遣使者去見猶大王亞瑪謝，說，黎巴嫩的蒺藜差遣使者去見黎巴嫩的香柏樹，說，將你的女兒給我兒子為妻。後來黎巴嫩有一個野獸經過，把蒺藜踐踏了。
And Jehoash the king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

14:10    你打敗了以東人就心高氣傲，你以此為榮耀，在家裡安居就吧了，為何要惹禍，使自己和猶大國一同敗亡呢。
Thou hast indeed smitten Edom, and thine heart hath lifted thee up: glory of this, and tarry at home: for why shouldest thou meddle to thy hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?

14:11    亞瑪謝卻不肯聽這話。於是以色列王約阿施上來，在猶大的伯示麥與猶大王亞瑪謝相見於戰場。
But Amaziah would not hear. Therefore Jehoash king of Israel went up; and he and Amaziah king of Judah looked one another in the face at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah.

14:12    猶大人敗在以色列人面前，各自逃回家裡去了。
And Judah was put to the worse before Israel; and they fled every man to their tents.

14:13    以色列王約阿施在伯示麥擒住亞哈謝的孫子，約阿施的兒子猶大王亞瑪謝，就來到耶路撒冷，拆毀耶路撒冷的城牆，從以法蓮門直到角門共四百肘，
And Jehoash king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Jehoash the son of Ahaziah, at Bethshemesh, and came to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim unto the corner gate, four hundred cubits.

14:14    又將耶和華殿裡與王宮府庫裡所有的金銀和器皿都拿了去，並帶人去為質，就回撒馬利亞去了。
And he took all the gold and silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the king's house, and hostages, and returned to Samaria.

14:15    約阿施其餘所行的事和他的勇力，並與猶大王亞瑪謝爭戰的事，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoash which he did, and his might, and how he fought with Amaziah king of Judah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

14:16    約阿施與他列祖同睡，葬在撒馬利亞，以色列諸王的墳地裡。他兒子耶羅波安接續他作王。
And Jehoash slept with his fathers, and was buried in Samaria with the kings of Israel; and Jeroboam his son reigned in his stead.

14:17    以色列王約哈斯的兒子約阿施死後，猶大王約阿施的兒子亞瑪謝又活了十五年。
And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Jehoash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

14:18    亞瑪謝其餘的事都寫在猶大列王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Amaziah, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

14:19    耶路撒冷有人背叛亞瑪謝，他就逃到拉吉。叛黨卻打發人到拉吉將他殺了。
Now they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem: and he fled to Lachish; but they sent after him to Lachish, and slew him there.

14:20    人就用馬將他的屍首馱到耶路撒冷，葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。
And they brought him on horses: and he was buried at Jerusalem with his fathers in the city of David.

14:21    猶大眾民立亞瑪謝的兒子亞撒利雅（又名烏西雅）接續他父作王，那時他年十六歲。
And all the people of Judah took Azariah, which was sixteen years old, and made him king instead of his father Amaziah.

14:22    亞瑪謝與他列祖同睡之後，亞撒利雅收回以拉他仍歸猶大，又重新修理。
He built Elath, and restored it to Judah, after that the king slept with his fathers.

14:23    猶大王約阿施的兒子亞瑪謝十五年，以色列王約阿施的兒子耶羅波安在撒馬利亞登基，作王四十一年。
In the fifteenth year of Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel began to reign in Samaria, and reigned forty and one years.

14:24    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的一切罪。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not from all the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

14:25    他收回以色列邊界之地，從哈馬口直到亞拉巴海，正如耶和華以色列的神，藉他僕人迦特希弗人亞米太的兒子先知約拿所說的。
He restored the coast of Israel from the entering of Hamath unto the sea of the plain, according to the word of the LORD God of Israel, which he spake by the hand of his servant Jonah, the son of Amittai, the prophet, which was of Gathhepher.

14:26    因為耶和華看見以色列人甚是艱苦，無論困住的，自由的都沒有了，也無人幫助以色列人。
For the LORD saw the affliction of Israel, that it was very bitter: for there was not any shut up, nor any left, nor any helper for Israel.

14:27    耶和華並沒有說要將以色列的名從天下塗抹，乃藉約阿施的兒子耶羅波安拯救他們。
And the LORD said not that he would blot out the name of Israel from under heaven: but he saved them by the hand of Jeroboam the son of Joash.

14:28    耶羅波安其餘的事，凡他所行的和他的勇力，他怎樣爭戰，怎樣收回大馬士革和先前屬猶大的哈馬歸以色列，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jeroboam, and all that he did, and his might, how he warred, and how he recovered Damascus, and Hamath, which belonged to Judah, for Israel, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

14:29    耶羅波安與他列祖以色列諸王同睡。他兒子撒迦利雅接續他作王。
And Jeroboam slept with his fathers, even with the kings of Israel; and Zachariah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


15:1    以色列王耶羅波安二十七年，猶大王亞瑪謝的兒子亞撒利雅登基，
In the twenty and seventh year of Jeroboam king of Israel began Azariah son of Amaziah king of Judah to reign.

15:2    他登基的時候年十六歲，在耶路撒冷作王五十二年。他母親名叫耶可利雅，是耶路撒冷人。
Sixteen years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned two and fifty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jecholiah of Jerusalem.

15:3    亞撒利雅行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他父親亞瑪謝一切所行的。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah had done;

15:4    只是邱壇還沒有廢去，百姓仍在那裡獻祭燒香。
Save that the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burnt incense still on the high places.

15:5    耶和華降災與王，使他長大麻瘋，直到死日，他就住在別的宮裡。他的兒子約坦管理家事，治理國民。
And the LORD smote the king, so that he was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a several house. And Jotham the king's son was over the house, judging the people of the land.

15:6    亞撒利雅其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在猶大列王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Azariah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

15:7    亞撒利雅與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子約坦接續他作王。
So Azariah slept with his fathers; and they buried him with his fathers in the city of David: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.

15:8    猶大王亞撒利雅三十八年，耶羅波安的兒子撒迦利雅在撒馬利亞作以色列王六個月。
In the thirty and eighth year of Azariah king of Judah did Zachariah the son of Jeroboam reign over Israel in Samaria six months.

15:9    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法他列祖所行的，不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his fathers had done: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

15:10    雅比的兒子沙龍背叛他，在百姓面前擊殺他，篡了他的位。
And Shallum the son of Jabesh conspired against him, and smote him before the people, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.

15:11    撒迦利雅其餘的事都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Zachariah, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

15:12    這是從前耶和華應許耶戶說，你的子孫必坐以色列的國位直到四代。這話果然應驗了。
This was the word of the LORD which he spake unto Jehu, saying, Thy sons shall sit on the throne of Israel unto the fourth generation. And so it came to pass.

15:13    猶大王烏西雅（就是亞撒利雅）三十九年，雅比的兒子沙龍登基在撒馬利亞作王一個月。
Shallum the son of Jabesh began to reign in the nine and thirtieth year of Uzziah king of Judah; and he reigned a full month in Samaria.

15:14    迦底的兒子米拿現從得撒上撒馬利亞，殺了雅比的兒子沙龍，篡了他的位。
For Menahem the son of Gadi went up from Tirzah, and came to Samaria, and smote Shallum the son of Jabesh in Samaria, and slew him, and reigned in his stead.

15:15    沙龍其餘的事和他背叛的情形都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Shallum, and his conspiracy which he made, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

15:16    那時米拿現從得撒起攻打提斐薩和其四境，擊殺城中一切的人，剖開其中所有的孕婦，都因他們沒有給他開城。
Then Menahem smote Tiphsah, and all that were therein, and the coasts thereof from Tirzah: because they opened not to him, therefore he smote it; and all the women therein that were with child he ripped up.

15:17    猶大王亞撒利雅三十九年，迦底的兒子米拿現登基，在撒馬利亞作以色列王十年。
In the nine and thirtieth year of Azariah king of Judah began Menahem the son of Gadi to reign over Israel, and reigned ten years in Samaria.

15:18    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，終身不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not all his days from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

15:19    亞述王普勒來攻擊以色列國，米拿現給他一千他連得銀子，請普勒幫助他堅定國位。
And Pul the king of Assyria came against the land: and Menahem gave Pul a thousand talents of silver, that his hand might be with him to confirm the kingdom in his hand.

15:20    米拿現向以色列一切大富戶索要銀子，使他們各出五十舍客勒，就給了亞述王。於是亞述王回去，不在國中停留。
And Menahem exacted the money of Israel, even of all the mighty men of wealth, of each man fifty shekels of silver, to give to the king of Assyria. So the king of Assyria turned back, and stayed not there in the land.

15:21    米拿現其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Menahem, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel?

15:22    米拿現與他列祖同睡。他兒子比加轄接續他作王。
And Menahem slept with his fathers; and Pekahiah his son reigned in his stead.

15:23    猶大王亞撒利雅五十年，米拿現的兒子比加轄在撒馬利亞登基作以色列王二年。
In the fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekahiah the son of Menahem began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned two years.

15:24    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

15:25    比加轄的將軍，利瑪利的兒子比加背叛他，在撒馬利亞王宮裡的衛所殺了他。亞珥歌伯和亞利耶並基列的五十人幫助比加。比加擊殺他，篡了他的位。
But Pekah the son of Remaliah, a captain of his, conspired against him, and smote him in Samaria, in the palace of the king's house, with Argob and Arieh, and with him fifty men of the Gileadites: and he killed him, and reigned in his room.



15:26    比加轄其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Pekahiah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

15:27    猶大王亞撒利雅五十二年，利瑪利的兒子比加在撒馬利亞登基作以色列王二十年。
In the two and fiftieth year of Azariah king of Judah Pekah the son of Remaliah began to reign over Israel in Samaria, and reigned twenty years.

15:28    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，不離開尼八的兒子耶羅波安使以色列人陷在罪裡的那罪。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD: he departed not from the sins of Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin.

15:29    以色列王比加年間，亞述王提革拉毗列色來奪了以雲，亞伯伯瑪迦，亞挪，基低斯，夏瑣，基列，加利利，和拿弗他利全地，將這些地方的居民都擄到亞述去了。
In the days of Pekah king of Israel came Tiglathpileser king of Assyria, and took Ijon, and Abelbethmaachah, and Janoah, and Kedesh, and Hazor, and Gilead, and Galilee, all the land of Naphtali, and carried them captive to Assyria.

15:30    烏西雅的兒子約坦二十年，以拉的兒子何細亞背叛利瑪利的兒子比加，擊殺他，篡了他的位。
And Hoshea the son of Elah made a conspiracy against Pekah the son of Remaliah, and smote him, and slew him, and reigned in his stead, in the twentieth year of Jotham the son of Uzziah.

15:31    比加其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在以色列諸王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Pekah, and all that he did, behold, they are written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Israel.

15:32    以色列王利瑪利的兒子比加第二年，猶大王烏西雅的兒子約坦登基。
In the second year of Pekah the son of Remaliah king of Israel began Jotham the son of Uzziah king of Judah to reign.

15:33    他登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王十六年。他母親名叫耶路沙，是撒督的女兒。
Five and twenty years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jerusha, the daughter of Zadok.

15:34    約坦行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他父親烏西雅一切所行的。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD: he did according to all that his father Uzziah had done.

15:35    只是邱壇還沒有廢去，百姓仍在那裡獻祭燒香。約坦建立耶和華殿的上門。
Howbeit the high places were not removed: the people sacrificed and burned incense still in the high places. He built the higher gate of the house of the LORD.

15:36    約坦其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

15:37    在那些日子，耶和華才使亞蘭王利汛和利瑪利的兒子比加去攻擊猶大。
In those days the LORD began to send against Judah Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah.

15:38    約坦與他列祖同睡，葬在他祖大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子亞哈斯接續他作王。
And Jotham slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David his father: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


16:1    利瑪利的兒子比加十七年，猶大王約坦的兒子亞哈斯登基。
In the seventeenth year of Pekah the son of Remaliah Ahaz the son of Jotham king of Judah began to reign.

16:2    他登基的時候年二十歲，在耶路撒冷作王十六年。不像他祖大衛行耶和華他神眼中看為正的事，
Twenty years old was Ahaz when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem, and did not that which was right in the sight of the LORD his God, like David his father.

16:3    卻效法以色列諸王所行的，又照著耶和華從以色列人面前趕出的外邦人所行可憎的事，使他的兒子經火，
But he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, yea, and made his son to pass through the fire, according to the abominations of the heathen, whom the LORD cast out from before the children of Israel.

16:4    並在邱壇上，山岡上，各青翠樹下獻祭燒香。
And he sacrificed and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.

16:5    亞蘭王利汛和以色列王利瑪利的兒子比加上來攻打耶路撒冷，圍困亞哈斯，卻不能勝他。
Then Rezin king of Syria and Pekah son of Remaliah king of Israel came up to Jerusalem to war: and they besieged Ahaz, but could not overcome him.

16:6    當時亞蘭王利汛收回以拉他歸與亞蘭，將猶大人從以拉他趕出去。亞蘭人（有作以東人的）就來到以拉他，住在那裡，直到今日。
At that time Rezin king of Syria recovered Elath to Syria, and drave the Jews from Elath: and the Syrians came to Elath, and dwelt there unto this day.

16:7    亞哈斯差遣使者去見亞述王提革拉毗列色，說，我是你的僕人，你的兒子。現在亞蘭王和以色列王攻擊我，求你來救我脫離他們的手。
So Ahaz sent messengers to Tiglathpileser king of Assyria, saying, I am thy servant and thy son: come up, and save me out of the hand of the king of Syria, and out of the hand of the king of Israel, which rise up against me.

16:8    亞哈斯將耶和華殿裡和王宮府庫裡所有的金銀都送給亞述王為禮物。
And Ahaz took the silver and gold that was found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the king's house, and sent it for a present to the king of Assyria.

16:9    亞述王應允了他，就上去攻打大馬士革，將城攻取，殺了利汛，把居民擄到吉珥。
And the king of Assyria hearkened unto him: for the king of Assyria went up against Damascus, and took it, and carried the people of it captive to Kir, and slew Rezin.

16:10    亞哈斯王上大馬士革去迎接亞述王提革拉毗列色，在大馬士革看見一座壇，就照壇的規模樣式作法畫了圖樣，送到祭司烏利亞那裡。
And king Ahaz went to Damascus to meet Tiglathpileser king of Assyria, and saw an altar that was at Damascus: and king Ahaz sent to Urijah the priest the fashion of the altar, and the pattern of it, according to all the workmanship thereof.

16:11    祭司烏利亞照著亞哈斯王從大馬士革送來的圖樣，在亞哈斯王沒有從大馬士革回來之先，建築一座壇。
And Urijah the priest built an altar according to all that king Ahaz had sent from Damascus: so Urijah the priest made it against king Ahaz came from Damascus.

16:12    王從大馬士革回來看見壇，就近前來，在壇上獻祭。
And when the king was come from Damascus, the king saw the altar: and the king approached to the altar, and offered thereon.

16:13    燒燔祭，素祭，澆奠祭，將平安祭牲的血灑在壇上，
And he burnt his burnt offering and his meat offering, and poured his drink offering, and sprinkled the blood of his peace offerings, upon the altar.

16:14    又將耶和華面前的銅壇從耶和華殿和新壇的中間搬到新壇的北邊。
And he brought also the brasen altar, which was before the LORD, from the forefront of the house, from between the altar and the house of the LORD, and put it on the north side of the altar.

16:15    亞哈斯王吩咐祭司烏利亞說，早晨的燔祭，晚上的素祭，王的燔祭，素祭，國內眾民的燔祭，素祭，奠祭都要燒在大壇上。燔祭牲和平安祭牲的血也要灑在這壇上，只是銅壇我要用以求問耶和華。
And king Ahaz commanded Urijah the priest, saying, Upon the great altar burn the morning burnt offering, and the evening meat offering, and the king's burnt sacrifice, and his meat offering, with the burnt offering of all the people of the land, and their meat offering, and their drink offerings; and sprinkle upon it all the blood of the burnt offering, and all the blood of the sacrifice: and the brasen altar shall be for me to enquire by.

16:16    祭司烏利亞就照著亞哈斯王所吩咐的行了。
Thus did Urijah the priest, according to all that king Ahaz commanded.

16:17    亞哈斯王打掉盆座四面鑲著的心子，把盆從座上挪下來，又將銅海從馱海的銅牛上搬下來，放在鋪石地。
And king Ahaz cut off the borders of the bases, and removed the laver from off them; and took down the sea from off the brasen oxen that were under it, and put it upon a pavement of stones.

16:18    又因亞述王的緣故，將耶和華殿為安息日所蓋的廊子和王從外入殿的廊子挪移，圍繞耶和華的殿。
And the covert for the sabbath that they had built in the house, and the king's entry without, turned he from the house of the LORD for the king of Assyria.

16:19    亞哈斯其餘所行的事都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Ahaz which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

16:20    亞哈斯與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子希西家接續他作王。
And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


17:1    猶大王亞哈斯十二年，以拉的兒子何細亞在撒馬利亞登基作以色列王九年。
In the twelfth year of Ahaz king of Judah began Hoshea the son of Elah to reign in Samaria over Israel nine years.

17:2    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，只是不像在他以前的以色列諸王。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, but not as the kings of Israel that were before him.

17:3    亞述王撒縵以色上來攻擊何細亞，何細亞就服事他，給他進貢。
Against him came up Shalmaneser king of Assyria; and Hoshea became his servant, and gave him presents.

17:4    何細亞背叛，差人去見埃及王梭，不照往年所行的與亞述王進貢。亞述王知道了，就把他鎖禁，囚在監裡。
And the king of Assyria found conspiracy in Hoshea: for he had sent messengers to So king of Egypt, and brought no present to the king of Assyria, as he had done year by year: therefore the king of Assyria shut him up, and bound him in prison.

17:5    亞述王上來攻擊以色列遍地，上到撒馬利亞，圍困三年。
Then the king of Assyria came up throughout all the land, and went up to Samaria, and besieged it three years.

17:6    何細亞第九年亞述王攻取了撒馬利亞，將以色列人擄到亞述，把他們安置在哈臘與歌散的哈博河邊，並瑪代人的城邑。
In the ninth year of Hoshea the king of Assyria took Samaria, and carried Israel away into Assyria, and placed them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes.

17:7    這是因以色列人得罪那領他們出埃及地，脫離埃及王法老手的耶和華他們的神，去敬畏別神，
For so it was, that the children of Israel had sinned against the LORD their God, which had brought them up out of the land of Egypt, from under the hand of Pharaoh king of Egypt, and had feared other gods,

17:8    隨從耶和華在他們面前所趕出外邦人的風俗和以色列諸王所立的條規。
And walked in the statutes of the heathen, whom the LORD cast out from before the children of Israel, and of the kings of Israel, which they had made.

17:9    以色列人暗中行不正的事，違背耶和華他們的神，在他們所有的城邑，從瞭望樓直到堅固城，建築邱壇。
And the children of Israel did secretly those things that were not right against the LORD their God, and they built them high places in all their cities, from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced city.

17:10    在各高岡上，各青翠樹下立柱像和木偶。
And they set them up images and groves in every high hill, and under every green tree:

17:11    在邱壇上燒香，效法耶和華在他們面前趕出的外邦人所行的，又行惡事惹動耶和華的怒氣。
And there they burnt incense in all the high places, as did the heathen whom the LORD carried away before them; and wrought wicked things to provoke the LORD to anger:

17:12    且事奉偶像，就是耶和華警戒他們不可行的。
For they served idols, whereof the LORD had said unto them, Ye shall not do this thing.

17:13    但耶和華藉眾先知，先見勸戒以色列人和猶大人說，當離開你們的惡行，謹守我的誡命律例，遵行我吩咐你們列祖，並藉我僕人眾先知所傳給你們的律法。
Yet the LORD testified against Israel, and against Judah, by all the prophets, and by all the seers, saying, Turn ye from your evil ways, and keep my commandments and my statutes, according to all the law which I commanded your fathers, and which I sent to you by my servants the prophets.

17:14    他們卻不聽從，竟硬著頸項，效法他們列祖，不信服耶和華他們的神，
Notwithstanding they would not hear, but hardened their necks, like to the neck of their fathers, that did not believe in the LORD their God.

17:15    厭棄他的律例和他與他們列祖所立的約，並勸戒他們的話，隨從虛無的神，自己成為虛妄，效法周圍的外邦人，就是耶和華囑咐他們不可效法的。
And they rejected his statutes, and his covenant that he made with their fathers, and his testimonies which he testified against them; and they followed vanity, and became vain, and went after the heathen that were round about them, concerning whom the LORD had charged them, that they should not do like them.

17:16    離棄耶和華他們神的一切誡命，為自己鑄了兩個牛犢的像，立了亞舍拉，敬拜天上的永珍，事奉巴力，
And they left all the commandments of the LORD their God, and made them molten images, even two calves, and made a grove, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served Baal.

17:17    又使他們的兒女經火，用占卜，行法術賣了自己，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，惹動他的怒氣。
And they caused their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire, and used divination and enchantments, and sold themselves to do evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

17:18    所以耶和華向以色列人大大發怒，從自己面前趕出他們，只剩下猶大一個支派。
Therefore the LORD was very angry with Israel, and removed them out of his sight: there was none left but the tribe of Judah only.

17:19    猶大人也不遵守耶和華他們神的誡命，隨從以色列人所立的條規。
Also Judah kept not the commandments of the LORD their God, but walked in the statutes of Israel which they made.

17:20    耶和華就厭棄以色列全族，使他們受苦，把他們交在搶奪他們的人手中，以致趕出他們離開自己面前，
And the LORD rejected all the seed of Israel, and afflicted them, and delivered them into the hand of spoilers, until he had cast them out of his sight.

17:21    將以色列國從大衛家奪回。他們就立尼八的兒子耶羅波安作王。耶羅波安引誘以色列人不隨從耶和華，陷在大罪裡。
For he rent Israel from the house of David; and they made Jeroboam the son of Nebat king: and Jeroboam drave Israel from following the LORD, and made them sin a great sin.

17:22    以色列人犯耶羅波安所犯的一切罪，總不離開，
For the children of Israel walked in all the sins of Jeroboam which he did; they departed not from them;

17:23    以致耶和華從自己面前趕出他們，正如藉他僕人眾先知所說的。這樣，以色列人從本地被擄到亞述，直到今日。
Until the LORD removed Israel out of his sight, as he had said by all his servants the prophets. So was Israel carried away out of their own land to Assyria unto this day.

17:24    亞述王從巴比倫，古他，亞瓦，哈馬，和西法瓦音遷移人來，安置在撒馬利亞的城邑，代替以色列人。他們就得了撒馬利亞，住在其中。
And the king of Assyria brought men from Babylon, and from Cuthah, and from Ava, and from Hamath, and from Sepharvaim, and placed them in the cities of Samaria instead of the children of Israel: and they possessed Samaria, and dwelt in the cities thereof.

17:25    他們才住那裡的時候，不敬畏耶和華，所以耶和華叫獅子進入他們中間，咬死了些人。
And so it was at the beginning of their dwelling there, that they feared not the LORD: therefore the LORD sent lions among them, which slew some of them.

17:26    有人告訴亞述王說，你所遷移安置在撒馬利亞各城的那些民，不知道那地之神的規矩，所以那神叫獅子進入他們中間，咬死他們。
Wherefore they spake to the king of Assyria, saying, The nations which thou hast removed, and placed in the cities of Samaria, know not the manner of the God of the land: therefore he hath sent lions among them, and, behold, they slay them, because they know not the manner of the God of the land.

17:27    亞述王就吩咐說，叫所擄來的祭司回去一個，使他住在那裡，將那地之神的規矩指教那些民。
Then the king of Assyria commanded, saying, Carry thither one of the priests whom ye brought from thence; and let them go and dwell there, and let him teach them the manner of the God of the land.

17:28    於是有一個從撒馬利亞擄去的祭司回來，住在伯特利，指教他們怎樣敬畏耶和華。
Then one of the priests whom they had carried away from Samaria came and dwelt in Bethel, and taught them how they should fear the LORD.

17:29    然而，各族之人在所住的城裡各為自己製造神像，安置在撒馬利亞人所造有邱壇的殿中。
Howbeit every nation made gods of their own, and put them in the houses of the high places which the Samaritans had made, every nation in their cities wherein they dwelt.

17:30    巴比倫人造疏割比訥像。古他人造匿甲像。哈馬人造亞示瑪像。
And the men of Babylon made Succothbenoth, and the men of Cuth made Nergal, and the men of Hamath made Ashima,

17:31    亞瓦人造匿哈和他珥他像。西法瓦音人用火焚燒兒女，獻給西法瓦音的神亞得米勒和亞拿米勒。
And the Avites made Nibhaz and Tartak, and the Sepharvites burnt their children in fire to Adrammelech and Anammelech, the gods of Sepharvaim.

17:32    他們懼怕耶和華，也從他們中間立邱壇的祭司，為他們在有邱壇的殿中獻祭。
So they feared the LORD, and made unto themselves of the lowest of them priests of the high places, which sacrificed for them in the houses of the high places.

17:33    他們又懼怕耶和華，又事奉自己的神，從何邦遷移，就隨何邦的風俗。
They feared the LORD, and served their own gods, after the manner of the nations whom they carried away from thence.

17:34    他們直到如今仍照先前的風俗去行，不專心敬畏耶和華，不全守自己的規矩，典章，也不遵守耶和華吩咐雅各後裔的律法，誡命。雅各，就是從前耶和華起名叫以色列的。
Unto this day they do after the former manners: they fear not the LORD, neither do they after their statutes, or after their ordinances, or after the law and commandment which the LORD commanded the children of Jacob, whom he named Israel;

17:35    耶和華曾與他們立約，囑咐他們說，不可敬畏別神，不可跪拜事奉他，也不可向他獻祭。
With whom the LORD had made a covenant, and charged them, saying, Ye shall not fear other gods, nor bow yourselves to them, nor serve them, nor sacrifice to them:

17:36    但那用大能和伸出來的膀臂領你們出埃及地的耶和華，你們當敬畏，跪拜，向他獻祭。
But the LORD, who brought you up out of the land of Egypt with great power and a stretched out arm, him shall ye fear, and him shall ye worship, and to him shall ye do sacrifice.

17:37    他給你們寫的律例，典章，律法，誡命，你們應當永遠謹守遵行，不可敬畏別神。
And the statutes, and the ordinances, and the law, and the commandment, which he wrote for you, ye shall observe to do for evermore; and ye shall not fear other gods.

17:38    我耶和華與你們所立的約你們不可忘記，也不可敬畏別神。
And the covenant that I have made with you ye shall not forget; neither shall ye fear other gods.

17:39    但要敬畏耶和華你們的神，他必救你們脫離一切仇敵的手。
But the LORD your God ye shall fear; and he shall deliver you out of the hand of all your enemies.

17:40    他們卻不聽從，仍照先前的風俗去行。
Howbeit they did not hearken, but they did after their former manner.

17:41    如此這些民又懼怕耶和華，又事奉他們的偶像。他們子子孫孫也都照樣行，效法他們的祖宗，直到今日。
So these nations feared the LORD, and served their graven images, both their children, and their children's children: as did their fathers, so do they unto this day.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


18:1    以色列王以拉的兒子何細亞第三年，猶大王亞哈斯的兒子希西家登基。
Now it came to pass in the third year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Hezekiah the son of Ahaz king of Judah began to reign.

18:2    他登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王二十九年。他母親名叫亞比，是撒迦利雅的女兒。
Twenty and five years old was he when he began to reign; and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Abi, the daughter of Zachariah.

18:3    希西家行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他祖大衛一切所行的。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that David his father did.

18:4    他廢去邱壇，毀壞柱像，砍下木偶，打碎摩西所造的銅蛇，因為到那時以色列人仍向銅蛇燒香。希西家叫銅蛇為銅塊（或作人稱銅蛇為銅像）。
He removed the high places, and brake the images, and cut down the groves, and brake in pieces the brasen serpent that Moses had made: for unto those days the children of Israel did burn incense to it: and he called it Nehushtan.

18:5    希西家倚靠耶和華以色列的神，在他前後的猶大列王中沒有一個及他的。
He trusted in the LORD God of Israel; so that after him was none like him among all the kings of Judah, nor any that were before him.

18:6    因為他專靠耶和華，總不離開，謹守耶和華所吩咐摩西的誡命。
For he clave to the LORD, and departed not from following him, but kept his commandments, which the LORD commanded Moses.

18:7    耶和華與他同在，他無論往何處去盡都亨通。他背叛，不肯事奉亞述王。
And the LORD was with him; and he prospered whithersoever he went forth: and he rebelled against the king of Assyria, and served him not.

18:8    希西家攻擊非利士人，直到迦薩，並迦薩的四境，從瞭望樓到堅固城。
He smote the Philistines, even unto Gaza, and the borders thereof, from the tower of the watchmen to the fenced city.

18:9    希西家王第四年，就是以色列王以拉的兒子何細亞第七年，亞述王撒縵以色上來圍困撒馬利亞。
And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Hezekiah, which was the seventh year of Hoshea son of Elah king of Israel, that Shalmaneser king of Assyria came up against Samaria, and besieged it.

18:10    過了三年就攻取了城。希西家第六年，以色列王何細亞第九年，撒馬利亞被攻取了。
And at the end of three years they took it: even in the sixth year of Hezekiah, that is the ninth year of Hoshea king of Israel, Samaria was taken.

18:11    亞述王將以色列人擄到亞述，把他們安置在哈臘與歌散的哈博河邊，並米底亞人的城邑。
And the king of Assyria did carry away Israel unto Assyria, and put them in Halah and in Habor by the river of Gozan, and in the cities of the Medes:

18:12    都因他們不聽從耶和華他們神的話，違揹他的約，就是耶和華僕人摩西吩咐他們所當守的。
Because they obeyed not the voice of the LORD their God, but transgressed his covenant, and all that Moses the servant of the LORD commanded, and would not hear them, nor do them.

18:13    希西家王十四年，亞述王西拿基立上來攻擊猶大的一切堅固城，將城攻取。
Now in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah did Sennacherib king of Assyria come up against all the fenced cities of Judah, and took them.

18:14    猶大王希西家差人往拉吉去見亞述王，說，我有罪了，求你離開我。凡你罰我的，我必承當。於是亞述王罰猶大王希西家銀子三百他連得，金子三十他連得。
And Hezekiah king of Judah sent to the king of Assyria to Lachish, saying, I have offended; return from me: that which thou puttest on me will I bear. And the king of Assyria appointed unto Hezekiah king of Judah three hundred talents of silver and thirty talents of gold.

18:15    希西家就把耶和華殿裡和王宮府庫裡所有的銀子都給了他。
And Hezekiah gave him all the silver that was found in the house of the LORD, and in the treasures of the king's house.

18:16    那時，猶大王希西家將耶和華殿門上的金子，和他自己包在柱上的金子，都刮下來，給了亞述王。
At that time did Hezekiah cut off the gold from the doors of the temple of the LORD, and from the pillars which Hezekiah king of Judah had overlaid, and gave it to the king of Assyria.

18:17    亞述王從拉吉差遣他珥探，拉伯撒利，和拉伯沙基率領大軍往耶路撒冷，到希西家王那裡去。他們上到耶路撒冷，就站在上池的水溝旁，在漂布地的大路上。
And the king of Assyria sent Tartan and Rabsaris and Rabshakeh from Lachish to king Hezekiah with a great host against Jerusalem. And they went up and came to Jerusalem. And when they were come up, they came and stood by the conduit of the upper pool, which is in the highway of the fuller's field.

18:18    他們呼叫王的時候，就有希勒家的兒子家宰以利亞敬，並書記舍伯那和亞薩的兒子史官約亞，出來見他們。
And when they had called to the king, there came out to them Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder.

18:19    拉伯沙基說，你們去告訴希西家說，亞述大王如此說，你所倚靠的有什麼可仗賴的呢。
And Rabshakeh said unto them, Speak ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest?

18:20    你說有打仗的計謀和能力，我看不過是虛話。你到底倚靠誰才背叛我呢。
Thou sayest, (but they are but vain words,) I have counsel and strength for the war. Now on whom dost thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?

18:21    看哪，你所倚靠的埃及是那壓傷的葦杖人若靠這杖，就必刺透他的手。埃及王法老向一切倚靠他的人也是這樣。
Now, behold, thou trustest upon the staff of this bruised reed, even upon Egypt, on which if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt unto all that trust on him.

18:22    你們若對我說，我們倚靠耶和華我們的神，希西家豈不是將神的邱壇和祭壇廢去，且對猶大和耶路撒冷的人說，你們當在耶路撒冷這壇前敬拜嗎。
But if ye say unto me, We trust in the LORD our God: is not that he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and hath said to Judah and Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar in Jerusalem?

18:23    現在你把當頭給我主亞述王，我給你二千匹馬，看你這一面騎馬的人夠不夠。
Now therefore, I pray thee, give pledges to my lord the king of Assyria, and I will deliver thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them.

18:24    若不然，怎能打敗我主臣僕中最小的軍長呢。你竟倚靠埃及的戰車馬兵嗎。
How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?

18:25    現在我上來攻擊毀滅這地，豈沒有耶和華的意思嗎。耶和華吩咐我說，你上去攻擊毀滅這地吧。
Am I now come up without the LORD against this place to destroy it? The LORD said to me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.

18:26    希勒家的兒子以利亞敬和舍伯那，並約亞，對拉伯沙基說，求你用亞蘭言語和僕人說話，因為我們懂得。不要用猶大言語和我們說話，達到城上百姓的耳中。
Then said Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, and Shebna, and Joah, unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, to thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understand it: and talk not with us in the Jews' language in the ears of the people that are on the wall.

18:27    拉伯沙基說，我主差遣我來，豈是單對你和你的主說這些話嗎。不也是對這些坐在城上，要與你們一同吃自己糞，喝自己尿的人說嗎。
But Rabshakeh said unto them, Hath my master sent me to thy master, and to thee, to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the men which sit on the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own piss with you?

18:28    於是拉伯沙基站著，用猶大言語大聲喊著說，你們當聽亞述大王的話。
Then Rabshakeh stood and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language, and spake, saying, Hear the word of the great king, the king of Assyria:

18:29    王如此說，你們不要被希西家欺哄了。因他不能救你們脫離我的手。
Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not be able to deliver you out of his hand:

18:30    也不要聽希西家使你們倚靠耶和華，說耶和華必要拯救我們，這城必不交在亞述王的手中。
Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, The LORD will surely deliver us, and this city shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.

18:31    不要聽希西家的話。因亞述王如此說，你們要與我和好，出來投降我，各人就可以吃自己葡萄樹和無花果樹的果子，喝自己井裡的水。
Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me, and then eat ye every man of his own vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye every one the waters of his cistern:

18:32    等我來領你們到一個地方與你們本地一樣，就是有五穀和新酒之地，有糧食和葡萄園之地，有橄欖樹和蜂蜜之地，好使你們存活，不至於死。希西家勸導你們，說耶和華必拯救我們；你們不要聽他的話。
Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a land of bread and vineyards, a land of oil olive and of honey, that ye may live, and not die: and hearken not unto Hezekiah, when he persuadeth you, saying, The LORD will deliver us.

18:33    列國的神有哪一個救他本國脫離亞述王的手呢。
Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered at all his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?

18:34    哈馬，亞珥拔的神在哪裡呢。西法瓦音，希拿，以瓦的神在哪裡呢。他們曾救撒馬利亞脫離我的手嗎。
Where are the gods of Hamath, and of Arpad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah? have they delivered Samaria out of mine hand?

18:35    這些國的神有誰曾救自己的國脫離我的手呢。難道耶和華能救耶路撒冷脫離我的手嗎。
Who are they among all the gods of the countries, that have delivered their country out of mine hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of mine hand?

18:36    百姓靜默不言，並不回答一句，因為王曾吩咐說，不要回答他。
But the people held their peace, and answered him not a word: for the king's commandment was, saying, Answer him not.

18:37    當下，希勒家的兒子家宰以利亞敬和書記舍伯那，並亞薩的兒子史官約亞，都撕裂衣服，來到希西家那裡，將拉伯沙基的話告訴了他。
Then came Eliakim the son of Hilkiah, which was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah the son of Asaph the recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


19:1    希西家王聽見，就撕裂衣服，披上麻布，進了耶和華的殿。
And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the LORD.

19:2    使家宰以利亞敬和書記舍伯那，並祭司中的長老，都披上麻布，去見亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞，
And he sent Eliakim, which was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests, covered with sackcloth, to Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.

19:3    對他說，希西家如此說，今日是急難，責罰，凌辱的日子，就如婦人將要生產嬰孩，卻沒有力量生產。
And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and blasphemy; for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.

19:4    或者耶和華你的神聽見拉伯沙基的一切話，就是他主人亞述王打發他來辱罵永生神的話，耶和華你的神聽見這話，就發斥責。故此，求你為餘剩的民揚聲禱告。
It may be the LORD thy God will hear all the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living God; and will reprove the words which the LORD thy God hath heard: wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that are left.

19:5    希西家王的臣僕就去見以賽亞。
So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.

19:6    以賽亞對他們說，要這樣對你們的主人說，耶和華如此說，你聽見亞述王的僕人褻瀆我的話，不要懼怕。
And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say to your master, Thus saith the LORD, Be not afraid of the words which thou hast heard, with which the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.

19:7    我必驚動（原文作使靈進入）他的心，他要聽見風聲就歸回本地。我必使他在那裡倒在刀下。
Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour, and shall return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.

19:8    拉伯沙基回去，正遇見亞述王攻打立拿，原來他早聽見亞述王拔營離開拉吉。
So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.

19:9    亞述王聽見人論古實王特哈加說，他出來要與你爭戰。於是亞述王又打發使者去見希西家，吩咐他們說，
And when he heard say of Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, Behold, he is come out to fight against thee: he sent messengers again unto Hezekiah, saying,

19:10    你們對猶大王希西家如此說，不要聽你所倚靠的神欺哄你說，耶路撒冷必不交在亞述王的手中。
Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, Let not thy God in whom thou trustest deceive thee, saying, Jerusalem shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.

19:11    你總聽說亞述諸王向列國所行的，乃是盡行滅絕，難道你還能得救嗎。
Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands, by destroying them utterly: and shalt thou be delivered?

19:12    我列祖所毀滅的，就是歌散，哈蘭，利色，和屬提拉撒的伊甸人，這些國的神何曾拯救這些國呢。
Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed; as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden which were in Thelasar?

19:13    哈馬的王，亞珥拔的王，西法瓦音城的王，希拿，和以瓦的王都在哪裡呢。
Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arpad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, of Hena, and Ivah?

19:14    希西家從使者手裡接過書信來，看完了，就上耶和華的殿，將書信在耶和華面前晒開。
And Hezekiah received the letter of the hand of the messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up into the house of the LORD, and spread it before the LORD.

19:15    希西家向耶和華禱告說，坐在二基路伯上耶和華以色列的神阿，你是天下萬國的神，你曾創造天地。
And Hezekiah prayed before the LORD, and said, O LORD God of Israel, which dwellest between the cherubims, thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth; thou hast made heaven and earth.

19:16    耶和華阿，求你側耳而聽。耶和華阿，求你睜眼而看。要聽西拿基立打發使者來辱罵永生神的話。
LORD, bow down thine ear, and hear: open, LORD, thine eyes, and see: and hear the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent him to reproach the living God.

19:17    耶和華阿，亞述諸王果然使列國和列國之地變為荒涼，
Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have destroyed the nations and their lands,

19:18    將列國的神像都扔在火裡。因為它本不是神，乃是人手所造的，是木頭石頭的，所以滅絕它。
And have cast their gods into the fire: for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone: therefore they have destroyed them.

19:19    耶和華我們的神阿，現在求你救我們脫離亞述王的手，使天下萬國都知道惟獨你耶和華是神。
Now therefore, O LORD our God, I beseech thee, save thou us out of his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the LORD God, even thou only.

19:20    亞摩斯的兒子以賽亞就打發人去見希西家，說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，你既然求我攻擊亞述王西拿基立，我已聽見了。
Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent to Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, That which thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib king of Assyria I have heard.

19:21    耶和華論他這樣說，錫安的處女藐視你，嗤笑你。耶路撒冷的女子向你搖頭。
This is the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning him; The virgin the daughter of Zion hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee.

19:22    你辱罵誰。褻瀆誰。揚起聲來，高舉眼目攻擊誰呢。乃是攻擊以色列的聖者。
Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hast thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against the Holy One of Israel.

19:23    你藉你的使者辱罵主，並說，我率領許多戰車上山頂，到黎巴嫩極深之處。我要砍伐其中高大的香柏樹和佳美的松樹。我必上極高之處，進入肥田的樹林。
By thy messengers thou hast reproached the LORD, and hast said, With the multitude of my chariots I am come up to the height of the mountains, to the sides of Lebanon, and will cut down the tall cedar trees thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter into the lodgings of his borders, and into the forest of his Carmel.

19:24    我已經在外邦挖井喝水。我必用腳掌踏乾埃及的一切河。
I have digged and drunk strange waters, and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all the rivers of besieged places.

19:25    耶和華說，我早先所作的，古時所立的，就是現在藉你使堅固城荒廢，變為亂堆，這事你豈沒有聽見嗎。
Hast thou not heard long ago how I have done it, and of ancient times that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou shouldest be to lay waste fenced cities into ruinous heaps.

19:26    所以其中的居民力量甚小，驚惶羞愧。他們像野草，像青菜，如房頂上的草，又如未長成而枯乾的禾稼。
Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and confounded; they were as the grass of the field, and as the green herb, as the grass on the house tops, and as corn blasted before it be grown up.

19:27    你坐下，你出去，你進來，你向我發烈怒，我都知道。
But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy rage against me.

19:28    因你向我發烈怒，又因你狂傲的話達到我耳中，我就要用鉤子鉤上你的鼻子，把嚼環放在你口裡，使你從你來的路轉回去。
Because thy rage against me and thy tumult is come up into mine ears, therefore I will put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.

19:29    以色列人哪，我賜你們一個證據，你們今年要吃自生的，明年也要吃自長的。至於後年，你們要耕種收割，栽植葡萄園，吃其中的果子。
And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such things as grow of themselves, and in the second year that which springeth of the same; and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat the fruits thereof.

19:30    猶大家所逃脫餘剩的，仍要往下紮根，向上結果。
And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall yet again take root downward, and bear fruit upward.

19:31    必有餘剩的民從耶路撒冷而出。必有逃脫的人從錫安山而來。耶和華的熱心必成就這事。
For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape out of mount Zion: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

19:32    所以，耶和華論亞述王如此說，他必不得來到這城，也不在這裡射箭，不得拿盾牌到城前，也不築壘攻城。
Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shield, nor cast a bank against it.

19:33    他從哪條路來，必從那條路回去，必不得來到這城。這是耶和華說的。
By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not come into this city, saith the LORD.

19:34    因我為自己的緣故，又為我僕人大衛的緣故，必保護拯救這城。
For I will defend this city, to save it, for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.

19:35    當夜，耶和華的使者出去，在亞述營中殺了十八萬五千人。清早有人起來，一看，都是死屍了。
And it came to pass that night, that the angel of the LORD went out, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians an hundred fourscore and five thousand: and when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses.

19:36    亞述王西拿基立就拔營回去，住在尼尼微。
So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh.

19:37    一日在他的神尼斯洛廟裡叩拜，他兒子亞得米勒和沙利色用刀殺了他，就逃到亞拉臘地。他兒子以撒哈頓接續他作王。
And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him with the sword: and they escaped into the land of Armenia. And Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


20:1    那時，希西家病得要死。亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞去見他，對他說，耶和華如此說，你當留遺命與你的家，因為你必死，不能活了。
In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz came to him, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Set thine house in order; for thou shalt die, and not live.

20:2    希西家就轉臉朝牆，禱告耶和華說，
Then he turned his face to the wall, and prayed unto the LORD, saying,

20:3    耶和華阿，求你記念我在你面前怎樣存完全的心，按誠實行事，又作你眼中所看為善的。希西家就痛哭了。
I beseech thee, O LORD, remember now how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

20:4    以賽亞出來，還沒有到中院（院或作城），耶和華的話就臨到他，說，
And it came to pass, afore Isaiah was gone out into the middle court, that the word of the LORD came to him, saying,

20:5    你回去告訴我民的君希西家說，耶和華你祖大衛的神如此說，我聽見了你的禱告，看見了你的眼淚，我必醫治你。到第三日，你必上到耶和華的殿。
Turn again, and tell Hezekiah the captain of my people, Thus saith the LORD, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will heal thee: on the third day thou shalt go up unto the house of the LORD.

20:6    我必加增你十五年的壽數，並且我要救你和這城脫離亞述王的手。我為自己和我僕人大衛的緣故，必保護這城。
And I will add unto thy days fifteen years; and I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria; and I will defend this city for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.

20:7    以賽亞說，當取一塊無花果餅來。人就取了來，貼在瘡上，王便痊癒了。
And Isaiah said, Take a lump of figs. And they took and laid it on the boil, and he recovered.

20:8    希西家問以賽亞說，耶和華必醫治我，到第三日，我能上耶和華的殿，有什麼兆頭呢。
And Hezekiah said unto Isaiah, What shall be the sign that the LORD will heal me, and that I shall go up into the house of the LORD the third day?

20:9    以賽亞說，耶和華必成就他所說的。這是他給你的兆頭，你要日影向前進十度呢。是要往後退十度呢。
And Isaiah said, This sign shalt thou have of the LORD, that the LORD will do the thing that he hath spoken: shall the shadow go forward ten degrees, or go back ten degrees?

20:10    希西家回答說，日影向前進十度容易，我要日影往後退十度。
And Hezekiah answered, It is a light thing for the shadow to go down ten degrees: nay, but let the shadow return backward ten degrees.

20:11    先知以賽亞求告耶和華，耶和華就使亞哈斯的日晷向前進的日影，往後退了十度。
And Isaiah the prophet cried unto the LORD: and he brought the shadow ten degrees backward, by which it had gone down in the dial of Ahaz.

20:12    那時，巴比倫王巴拉但的兒子比羅達巴拉但聽見希西家病而痊癒，就送書信和禮物給他。
At that time Berodachbaladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present unto Hezekiah: for he had heard that Hezekiah had been sick.

20:13    希西家聽從使者的話，就把他寶庫的金子，銀子，香料，貴重的膏油，和他武庫的一切軍器，並他所有的財寶，都給他們看。他家中和他全國之內，希西家沒有一樣不給他們看的。
And Hezekiah hearkened unto them, and shewed them all the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.

20:14    於是先知以賽亞來見希西家王，問他說，這些人說什麼。他們從哪裡來見你。希西家說，他們從遠方的巴比倫來。
Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country, even from Babylon.

20:15    以賽亞說，他們在你家裡看見了什麼。希西家說，凡我家中所有的，他們都看見了。我財寶中沒有一樣不給他們看的。
And he said, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah answered, All the things that are in mine house have they seen: there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shewed them.

20:16    以賽亞對希西家說，你要聽耶和華的話，
And Isaiah said unto Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD.

20:17    日子必到，凡你家裡所有的，並你列祖積蓄到如今的，都要被擄到巴比倫去，不留下一樣。這是耶和華說的。
Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store unto this day, shall be carried into Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.

20:18    並且從你本身所生的眾子，其中必有被擄去在巴比倫王宮裡當太監的。
And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.

20:19    希西家對以賽亞說，你所說耶和華的話甚好。若在我的年日中有太平和穩固的景況，豈不是好嗎。
Then said Hezekiah unto Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD which thou hast spoken. And he said, Is it not good, if peace and truth be in my days?

20:20    希西家其餘的事和他的勇力，他怎樣挖池，挖溝，引水入城，都寫在猶大列王記上。
And the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and all his might, and how he made a pool, and a conduit, and brought water into the city, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

20:21    希西家與他列祖同睡。他兒子瑪拿西接續他作王。
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers: and Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


21:1    瑪拿西登基的時候年十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王五十五年。他母親名叫協西巴。
Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hephzibah.

21:2    瑪拿西行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法耶和華在以色列人面前趕出的外邦人所行可憎的事。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, after the abominations of the heathen, whom the LORD cast out before the children of Israel.

21:3    重新建築他父希西家所毀壞的邱壇，又為巴力築壇，作亞舍拉像，效法以色列王亞哈所行的，且敬拜事奉天上的永珍。
For he built up again the high places which Hezekiah his father had destroyed; and he reared up altars for Baal, and made a grove, as did Ahab king of Israel; and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.

21:4    在耶和華殿宇中築壇。耶和華曾指著這殿說，我必立我的名在耶路撒冷。
And he built altars in the house of the LORD, of which the LORD said, In Jerusalem will I put my name.

21:5    他在耶和華殿的兩院中為天上的永珍築壇，
And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD.

21:6    並使他的兒子經火，又觀兆，用法術，立交鬼的和行巫術的，多行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，惹動他的怒氣。
And he made his son pass through the fire, and observed times, and used enchantments, and dealt with familiar spirits and wizards: he wrought much wickedness in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

21:7    又在殿內立雕刻的亞舍拉像。耶和華曾對大衛和他兒子所羅門說，我在以色列眾支派中所選擇的耶路撒冷和這殿，必立我的名，直到永遠。
And he set a graven image of the grove that he had made in the house, of which the LORD said to David, and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen out of all tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever:

21:8    以色列人若謹守遵行我一切所吩咐他們的，和我僕人摩西所吩咐他們的一切律法，我就不再使他們挪移離開我所賜給他們列祖之地。
Neither will I make the feet of Israel move any more out of the land which I gave their fathers; only if they will observe to do according to all that I have commanded them, and according to all the law that my servant Moses commanded them.

21:9    他們卻不聽從。瑪拿西引誘他們行惡，比耶和華在以色列人面前所滅的列國更甚。
But they hearkened not: and Manasseh seduced them to do more evil than did the nations whom the LORD destroyed before the children of Israel.

21:10    耶和華藉他僕人眾先知說，
And the LORD spake by his servants the prophets, saying,

21:11    因猶大王瑪拿西行這些可憎的惡事比先前亞摩利人所行的更甚，使猶大人拜他的偶像，陷在罪裡。
Because Manasseh king of Judah hath done these abominations, and hath done wickedly above all that the Amorites did, which were before him, and hath made Judah also to sin with his idols:

21:12    所以耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必降禍與耶路撒冷和猶大，叫一切聽見的人無不耳嗚。
Therefore thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Behold, I am bringing such evil upon Jerusalem and Judah, that whosoever heareth of it, both his ears shall tingle.

21:13    我必用量撒馬利亞的準繩和亞哈家的線鉈拉在耶路撒冷上，必擦淨耶路撒冷，如人擦盤，將盤倒扣。
And I will stretch over Jerusalem the line of Samaria, and the plummet of the house of Ahab: and I will wipe Jerusalem as a man wipeth a dish, wiping it, and turning it upside down.

21:14    我必棄掉所餘剩的子民（原文作產業），把他們交在仇敵手中，使他們成為一切仇敵擄掠之物。
And I will forsake the remnant of mine inheritance, and deliver them into the hand of their enemies; and they shall become a prey and a spoil to all their enemies;

21:15    是因他們自從列祖出埃及直到如今，常行我眼中看為惡的事，惹動我的怒氣。
Because they have done that which was evil in my sight, and have provoked me to anger, since the day their fathers came forth out of Egypt, even unto this day.

21:16    瑪拿西行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，使猶大人陷在罪裡，又流許多無辜人的血，充滿了耶路撒冷，從這邊直到那邊。
Moreover Manasseh shed innocent blood very much, till he had filled Jerusalem from one end to another; beside his sin wherewith he made Judah to sin, in doing that which was evil in the sight of the LORD.

21:17    瑪拿西其餘的事，凡他所行的和他所犯的罪都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and all that he did, and his sin that he sinned, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

21:18    瑪拿西與他列祖同睡，葬在自己宮院烏撒的園內。他兒子亞們接續他作王。
And Manasseh slept with his fathers, and was buried in the garden of his own house, in the garden of Uzza: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.

21:19    亞們登基的時候年二十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王二年。他母親名叫米舒利密，是約提巴人哈魯斯的女兒。
Amon was twenty and two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned two years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Meshullemeth, the daughter of Haruz of Jotbah.

21:20    亞們行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，與他父親瑪拿西所行的一樣。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as his father Manasseh did.

21:21    行他父親一切所行的，敬奉他父親所敬奉的偶像，
And he walked in all the way that his father walked in, and served the idols that his father served, and worshipped them:

21:22    離棄耶和華他列祖的神，不遵行耶和華的道。
And he forsook the LORD God of his fathers, and walked not in the way of the LORD.

21:23    亞們王的臣僕背叛他，在宮裡殺了他。
And the servants of Amon conspired against him, and slew the king in his own house.

21:24    但國民殺了那些背叛亞們王的人，立他兒子約西亞接續他作王。
And the people of the land slew all them that had conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead.

21:25    亞們其餘所行的事都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Amon which he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

21:26    亞們葬在烏撒的園內自己的墳墓裡。他兒子約西亞接續他作王。
And he was buried in his sepulchre in the garden of Uzza: and Josiah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


22:1    約西亞登基的時候年八歲，在耶路撒冷作王三十一年。他母親名叫耶底大，是波斯加人亞大雅的女兒。
Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned thirty and one years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jedidah, the daughter of Adaiah of Boscath.

22:2    約西亞行耶和華眼中看為正的事，行他祖大衛一切所行的，不偏左右。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, and walked in all the way of David his father, and turned not aside to the right hand or to the left.

22:3    約西亞王十八年，王差遣米書蘭的孫子，亞薩利的兒子書記沙番上耶和華殿去，吩咐他說，
And it came to pass in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, that the king sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, the son of Meshullam, the scribe, to the house of the LORD, saying,

22:4    你去見大祭司希勒家，使他將奉到耶和華殿的銀子，就是守門的從民中收聚的銀子，數算數算，
Go up to Hilkiah the high priest, that he may sum the silver which is brought into the house of the LORD, which the keepers of the door have gathered of the people:

22:5    交給耶和華殿裡辦事的人，使他們轉交耶和華殿裡作工的人，好修理殿的破壞之處，
And let them deliver it into the hand of the doers of the work, that have the oversight of the house of the LORD: and let them give it to the doers of the work which is in the house of the LORD, to repair the breaches of the house,

22:6    就是轉交木匠和工人，並瓦匠，又買木料和鑿成的石頭修理殿宇，
Unto carpenters, and builders, and masons, and to buy timber and hewn stone to repair the house.

22:7    將銀子交在辦事的人手裡，不與他們算帳，因為他們辦事誠實。
Howbeit there was no reckoning made with them of the money that was delivered into their hand, because they dealt faithfully.



22:8    大祭司希勒家對書記沙番說，我在耶和華殿裡得了律法書。希勒家將書遞給沙番，沙番就看了。
And Hilkiah the high priest said unto Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah gave the book to Shaphan, and he read it.

22:9    書記沙番到王那裡，回覆王說，你的僕人已將殿裡的銀子倒出數算，交給耶和華殿裡辦事的人了。
And Shaphan the scribe came to the king, and brought the king word again, and said, Thy servants have gathered the money that was found in the house, and have delivered it into the hand of them that do the work, that have the oversight of the house of the LORD.

22:10    書記沙番又對王說，祭司希勒家遞給我一卷書。沙番就在王面前讀那書。
And Shaphan the scribe shewed the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath delivered me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.

22:11    王聽見律法書上的話，便撕裂衣服，
And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the book of the law, that he rent his clothes.

22:12    吩咐祭司希勒家與沙番的兒子亞希甘，米該亞的兒子亞革波，書記沙番和王的臣僕亞撒雅，說，
And the king commanded Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Achbor the son of Michaiah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asahiah a servant of the king's, saying,

22:13    你們去為我，為民，為猶大眾人，以這書上的話求問耶和華。因為我們列祖沒有聽從這書上的言語，沒有遵著書上所吩咐我們的去行，耶和華就向我們大發烈怒。
Go ye, enquire of the LORD for me, and for the people, and for all Judah, concerning the words of this book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORD that is kindled against us, because our fathers have not hearkened unto the words of this book, to do according unto all that which is written concerning us.

22:14    於是，祭司希勒家和亞希甘，亞革波，沙番，亞撒雅都去見女先知戶勒大。戶勒大是掌管禮服沙龍的妻。沙龍是哈珥哈斯的孫子，特瓦的兒子。戶勒大住在耶路撒冷第二區。他們請問於她。
So Hilkiah the priest, and Ahikam, and Achbor, and Shaphan, and Asahiah, went unto Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvah, the son of Harhas, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college;) and they communed with her.

22:15    她對他們說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們可以回覆那差遣你們來見我的人說，
And she said unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tell the man that sent you to me,

22:16    耶和華如此說，我必照著猶大王所讀那書上的一切話，降禍與這地和其上的居民。
Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the words of the book which the king of Judah hath read:

22:17    因為他們離棄我，向別神燒香，用他們手所作的惹我發怒，所以我的忿怒必向這地發作，總不止息。
Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath shall be kindled against this place, and shall not be quenched.

22:18    然而，差遣你們來求問耶和華的猶大王，你們要這樣回覆他說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，至於你所聽見的話，
But to the king of Judah which sent you to enquire of the LORD, thus shall ye say to him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, As touching the words which thou hast heard;

22:19    就是聽見我指著這地和其上的居民所說，要使這地變為荒場，民受咒詛的話，你便心裡敬服，在我面前自卑，撕裂衣服，向我哭泣，因此我應允了你。這是我耶和華說的。
Because thine heart was tender, and thou hast humbled thyself before the LORD, when thou heardest what I spake against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, that they should become a desolation and a curse, and hast rent thy clothes, and wept before me; I also have heard thee, saith the LORD.

22:20    我必使你平平安安地歸到墳墓到你列祖那裡。我要降與這地的一切災禍，你也不至親眼看見。他們就回覆王去了。
Behold therefore, I will gather thee unto thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered into thy grave in peace; and thine eyes shall not see all the evil which I will bring upon this place. And they brought the king word again.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


23:1    王差遣人招聚猶大和耶路撒冷的眾長老來。
And the king sent, and they gathered unto him all the elders of Judah and of Jerusalem.

23:2    王和猶大眾人與耶路撒冷的居民，並祭司，先知，和所有的百姓，無論大小，都一同上到耶和華的殿。王就把耶和華殿裡所得的約書念給他們聽。
And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the men of Judah and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem with him, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the people, both small and great: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant which was found in the house of the LORD.

23:3    王站在柱旁，在耶和華面前立約，要盡心儘性地順從耶和華，遵守他的誡命，法度，律例，成就這書上所記的約言。眾民都服從這約。
And the king stood by a pillar, and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments and his testimonies and his statutes with all their heart and all their soul, to perform the words of this covenant that were written in this book. And all the people stood to the covenant.

23:4    王吩咐大祭司希勒家和副祭司，並把門的，將那為巴力和亞舍拉，並天上永珍所造的器皿，都從耶和華殿裡搬出來，在耶路撒冷外汲淪溪旁的田間燒了，把灰拿到伯特利去。
And the king commanded Hilkiah the high priest, and the priests of the second order, and the keepers of the door, to bring forth out of the temple of the LORD all the vessels that were made for Baal, and for the grove, and for all the host of heaven: and he burned them without Jerusalem in the fields of Kidron, and carried the ashes of them unto Bethel.

23:5    從前猶大列王所立拜偶像的祭司，在猶大城邑的邱壇和耶路撒冷的周圍燒香，現在王都廢去，又廢去向巴力和日，月，行星（或作十二宮），並天上永珍燒香的人。
And he put down the idolatrous priests, whom the kings of Judah had ordained to burn incense in the high places in the cities of Judah, and in the places round about Jerusalem; them also that burned incense unto Baal, to the sun, and to the moon, and to the planets, and to all the host of heaven.

23:6    又從耶和華殿裡將亞舍拉搬到耶路撒冷外汲淪溪邊焚燒，打碎成灰，將灰撒在平民的墳上。
And he brought out the grove from the house of the LORD, without Jerusalem, unto the brook Kidron, and burned it at the brook Kidron, and stamped it small to powder, and cast the powder thereof upon the graves of the children of the people.

23:7    又拆毀耶和華殿裡孌童的屋子，就是婦女為亞舍拉織帳子的屋子，
And he brake down the houses of the sodomites, that were by the house of the LORD, where the women wove hangings for the grove.

23:8    並且從猶大的城邑帶眾祭司來，汙穢祭司燒香的邱壇，從迦巴直到別是巴，又拆毀城門旁的邱壇，這邱壇在邑宰約書亞門前，進城門的左邊。
And he brought all the priests out of the cities of Judah, and defiled the high places where the priests had burned incense, from Geba to Beersheba, and brake down the high places of the gates that were in the entering in of the gate of Joshua the governor of the city, which were on a man's left hand at the gate of the city.

23:9    但是邱壇的祭司不登耶路撒冷耶和華的壇，只在他們弟兄中間吃無酵餅。
Nevertheless the priests of the high places came not up to the altar of the LORD in Jerusalem, but they did eat of the unleavened bread among their brethren.

23:10    又汙穢欣嫩子谷的陀斐特，不許人在那裡使兒女經火獻給摩洛。
And he defiled Topheth, which is in the valley of the children of Hinnom, that no man might make his son or his daughter to pass through the fire to Molech.

23:11    又將猶大列王在耶和華殿門旁，太監拿單米勒靠近遊廊的屋子，向日頭所獻的馬廢去，且用火焚燒日車。
And he took away the horses that the kings of Judah had given to the sun, at the entering in of the house of the LORD, by the chamber of Nathanmelech the chamberlain, which was in the suburbs, and burned the chariots of the sun with fire.

23:12    猶大列王在亞哈斯樓頂上所築的壇和瑪拿西在耶和華殿兩院中所築的壇，王都拆毀打碎了，就把灰倒在汲淪溪中。
And the altars that were on the top of the upper chamber of Ahaz, which the kings of Judah had made, and the altars which Manasseh had made in the two courts of the house of the LORD, did the king beat down, and brake them down from thence, and cast the dust of them into the brook Kidron.

23:13    從前以色列王所羅門在耶路撒冷前，邪僻山右邊為西頓人可憎的神亞斯她錄，摩押人可憎的神基抹，亞捫人可憎的神米勒公所築的邱壇，王都汙穢了，
And the high places that were before Jerusalem, which were on the right hand of the mount of corruption, which Solomon the king of Israel had builded for Ashtoreth the abomination of the Zidonians, and for Chemosh the abomination of the Moabites, and for Milcom the abomination of the children of Ammon, did the king defile.

23:14    又打碎柱像，砍下木偶，將人的骨頭充滿了那地方。
And he brake in pieces the images, and cut down the groves, and filled their places with the bones of men.

23:15    他將伯特利的壇，就是叫以色列人陷在罪裡，尼八的兒子耶羅波安所築的那壇，都拆毀焚燒，打碎成灰，並焚燒了亞舍拉。
Moreover the altar that was at Bethel, and the high place which Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who made Israel to sin, had made, both that altar and the high place he brake down, and burned the high place, and stamped it small to powder, and burned the grove.

23:16    約西亞回頭，看見山上的墳墓，就打發人將墳墓裡的骸骨取出來，燒在壇上，汙穢了壇，正如從前神人宣傳耶和華的話。
And as Josiah turned himself, he spied the sepulchres that were there in the mount, and sent, and took the bones out of the sepulchres, and burned them upon the altar, and polluted it, according to the word of the LORD which the man of God proclaimed, who proclaimed these words.

23:17    約西亞問說，我所看見的是什麼碑。那城裡的人回答說，先前有神人從猶大來，預先說王現在向伯特利壇所行的事，這就是他的墓碑。
Then he said, What title is that that I see? And the men of the city told him, It is the sepulchre of the man of God, which came from Judah, and proclaimed these things that thou hast done against the altar of Bethel.

23:18    約西亞說，由他吧。不要挪移他的骸骨。他們就不動他的骸骨，也不動從撒馬利亞來那先知的骸骨。
And he said, Let him alone; let no man move his bones. So they let his bones alone, with the bones of the prophet that came out of Samaria.

23:19    從前以色列諸王在撒馬利亞的城邑建築邱壇的殿，惹動耶和華的怒氣，現在約西亞都廢去了，就如他在伯特利所行的一般。
And all the houses also of the high places that were in the cities of Samaria, which the kings of Israel had made to provoke the Lord to anger, Josiah took away, and did to them according to all the acts that he had done in Bethel.

23:20    又將邱壇的祭司都殺在壇上，並在壇上燒人的骨頭，就回耶路撒冷去了。
And he slew all the priests of the high places that were there upon the altars, and burned men's bones upon them, and returned to Jerusalem.

23:21    王吩咐眾民說，你們當照這約書上所寫的，向耶和華你們的神守逾越節。
And the king commanded all the people, saying, Keep the passover unto the LORD your God, as it is written in the book of this covenant.

23:22    自從士師治理以色列人和以色列王，猶大王的時候，直到如今，實在沒有守過這樣的逾越節。
Surely there was not holden such a passover from the days of the judges that judged Israel, nor in all the days of the kings of Israel, nor of the kings of Judah;



23:23    只有約西亞王十八年在耶路撒冷向耶和華守這逾越節。
But in the eighteenth year of king Josiah, wherein this passover was holden to the LORD in Jerusalem.

23:24    凡猶大國和耶路撒冷所有交鬼的，行巫術的，與家中的神像和偶像，並一切可憎之物，約西亞盡都除掉，成就了祭司希勒家在耶和華殿裡所得律法書上所寫的話。
Moreover the workers with familiar spirits, and the wizards, and the images, and the idols, and all the abominations that were spied in the land of Judah and in Jerusalem, did Josiah put away, that he might perform the words of the law which were written in the book that Hilkiah the priest found in the house of the LORD.

23:25    在約西亞以前沒有王像他盡心，儘性，盡力地歸向耶和華，遵行摩西的一切律法。在他以後也沒有興起一個王像他。
And like unto him was there no king before him, that turned to the LORD with all his heart, and with all his soul, and with all his might, according to all the law of Moses; neither after him arose there any like him.

23:26    然而，耶和華向猶大所發猛烈的怒氣仍不止息，是因瑪拿西諸事惹動他。
Notwithstanding the LORD turned not from the fierceness of his great wrath, wherewith his anger was kindled against Judah, because of all the provocations that Manasseh had provoked him withal.

23:27    耶和華說，我必將猶大人從我面前趕出，如同趕出以色列人一般。我必棄掉我從前所選擇的這城耶路撒冷和我所說立我名的殿。
And the LORD said, I will remove Judah also out of my sight, as I have removed Israel, and will cast off this city Jerusalem which I have chosen, and the house of which I said, My name shall be there.

23:28    約西亞其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

23:29    約西亞年間，埃及王法老尼哥上到幼發拉底河攻擊亞述王。約西亞王去抵擋他。埃及王遇見約西亞在米吉多，就殺了他。
In his days Pharaohnechoh king of Egypt went up against the king of Assyria to the river Euphrates: and king Josiah went against him; and he slew him at Megiddo, when he had seen him.

23:30    他的臣僕用車將他的屍首從米吉多送到耶路撒冷，葬在他自己的墳墓裡。國民膏約西亞的兒子約哈斯接續他父親作王。
And his servants carried him in a chariot dead from Megiddo, and brought him to Jerusalem, and buried him in his own sepulchre. And the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and anointed him, and made him king in his father's stead.

23:31    約哈斯登基的時候年二十三歲，在耶路撒冷作王三個月。他母親名叫哈慕她，是立拿人耶利米的女兒。
Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign; and he reigned three months in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

23:32    約哈斯行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法他列祖一切所行的。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.

23:33    法老尼哥將約哈斯鎖禁在哈馬地的利比拉，不許他在耶路撒冷作王，又罰猶大國銀子一百他連得，金子一他連得。
And Pharaohnechoh put him in bands at Riblah in the land of Hamath, that he might not reign in Jerusalem; and put the land to a tribute of an hundred talents of silver, and a talent of gold.

23:34    法老尼哥立約西亞的兒子以利亞敬接續他父親約西亞作王，給他改名叫約雅敬，卻將約哈斯帶到埃及，他就死在那裡。
And Pharaohnechoh made Eliakim the son of Josiah king in the room of Josiah his father, and turned his name to Jehoiakim, and took Jehoahaz away: and he came to Egypt, and died there.

23:35    約雅敬將金銀給法老，遵著法老的命向國民徵取金銀，按著各人的力量派定，索要金銀，好給法老尼哥。
And Jehoiakim gave the silver and the gold to Pharaoh; but he taxed the land to give the money according to the commandment of Pharaoh: he exacted the silver and the gold of the people of the land, of every one according to his taxation, to give it unto Pharaohnechoh.

23:36    約雅敬登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王十一年。他母親名叫西布大，是魯瑪人毗大雅的女兒。
Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign; and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Zebudah, the daughter of Pedaiah of Rumah.

23:37    約雅敬行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法他列祖一切所行的。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his fathers had done.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


24:1    約雅敬年間，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒上到猶大。約雅敬服事他三年，然後背叛他。
In his days Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up, and Jehoiakim became his servant three years: then he turned and rebelled against him.

24:2    耶和華使迦勒底軍，亞蘭軍，摩押軍，和亞捫人的軍來攻擊約雅敬，毀滅猶大，正如耶和華藉他僕人眾先知所說的。
And the LORD sent against him bands of the Chaldees, and bands of the Syrians, and bands of the Moabites, and bands of the children of Ammon, and sent them against Judah to destroy it, according to the word of the LORD, which he spake by his servants the prophets.

24:3    這禍臨到猶大人，誠然是耶和華所命的，要將他們從自己面前趕出，是因瑪拿西所犯的一切罪。
Surely at the commandment of the LORD came this upon Judah, to remove them out of his sight, for the sins of Manasseh, according to all that he did;

24:4    又因他流無辜人的血，充滿了耶路撒冷。耶和華決不肯赦免。
And also for the innocent blood that he shed: for he filled Jerusalem with innocent blood; which the LORD would not pardon.

24:5    約雅敬其餘的事，凡他所行的都寫在猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and all that he did, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Judah?

24:6    約雅敬與他列祖同睡。他兒子約雅斤接續他作王。
So Jehoiakim slept with his fathers: and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead.

24:7    埃及王不再從他國中出來。因為巴比倫王將埃及王所管之地，從埃及小河直到幼發拉底河都奪去了。
And the king of Egypt came not again any more out of his land: for the king of Babylon had taken from the river of Egypt unto the river Euphrates all that pertained to the king of Egypt.

24:8    約雅斤登基的時候年十八歲，在耶路撒冷作王三個月。他母親名叫尼護施她，是耶路撒冷人以利拿單的女兒。
Jehoiachin was eighteen years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem three months. And his mother's name was Nehushta, the daughter of Elnathan of Jerusalem.

24:9    約雅斤行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法他父親一切所行的。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father had done.

24:10    那時，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的軍兵上到耶路撒冷，圍困城。
At that time the servants of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came up against Jerusalem, and the city was besieged.

24:11    當他軍兵圍困城的時候，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒就親自來了。
And Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came against the city, and his servants did besiege it.

24:12    猶大王約雅斤和他母親，臣僕，首領，太監一同出城，投降巴比倫王。巴比倫王便拿住他。那時是巴比倫王第八年。
And Jehoiachin the king of Judah went out to the king of Babylon, he, and his mother, and his servants, and his princes, and his officers: and the king of Babylon took him in the eighth year of his reign.

24:13    巴比倫王將耶和華殿和王宮裡的寶物都拿去了，將以色列王所羅門所造耶和華殿裡的金器都毀壞了，正如耶和華所說的。
And he carried out thence all the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house, and cut in pieces all the vessels of gold which Solomon king of Israel had made in the temple of the LORD, as the LORD had said.

24:14    又將耶路撒冷的眾民和眾首領，並所有大能的勇士，共一萬人，連一切木匠，鐵匠都擄了去。除了國中極貧窮的人以外，沒有剩下的。
And he carried away all Jerusalem, and all the princes, and all the mighty men of valour, even ten thousand captives, and all the craftsmen and smiths: none remained, save the poorest sort of the people of the land.

24:15    並將約雅斤和王母，后妃，太監，與國中的大官，都從耶路撒冷擄到巴比倫去了。
And he carried away Jehoiachin to Babylon, and the king's mother, and the king's wives, and his officers, and the mighty of the land, those carried he into captivity from Jerusalem to Babylon.

24:16    又將一切勇士七千人和木匠，鐵匠一千人，都是能上陣的勇士，全擄到巴比倫去了。
And all the men of might, even seven thousand, and craftsmen and smiths a thousand, all that were strong and apt for war, even them the king of Babylon brought captive to Babylon.

24:17    巴比倫王立約雅斤的叔叔瑪探雅代替他作王，給瑪探雅改名叫西底家。
And the king of Babylon made Mattaniah his father's brother king in his stead, and changed his name to Zedekiah.

24:18    西底家登基的時候年二十一歲，在耶路撒冷作王十一年。他母親名叫哈慕她，是立拿人耶利米的女兒。
Zedekiah was twenty and one years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal, the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

24:19    西底家行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，是照約雅敬一切所行的。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.

24:20    因此耶和華的怒氣在耶路撒冷和猶大發作，以致將人民從自己面前趕出。
For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem and Judah, until he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.




舊約 -- 列王記下(2 Kings) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 25 章 )    　


25:1    西底家背叛巴比倫王。他作王第九年十月初十日，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒率領全軍來攻擊耶路撒冷，對城安營，四圍築壘攻城。
And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon came, he, and all his host, against Jerusalem, and pitched against it; and they built forts against it round about.

25:2    於是城被圍困，直到西底家王十一年。
And the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.

25:3    四月初九日，城裡有大饑荒，甚至百姓都沒有糧食。
And on the ninth day of the fourth month the famine prevailed in the city, and there was no bread for the people of the land.

25:4    城被攻破，一切兵丁就在夜間從靠近王園兩城中間的門逃跑。迦勒底人正在四圍攻城，王就向亞拉巴逃走。
And the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled by night by the way of the gate between two walls, which is by the king's garden: (now the Chaldees were against the city round about:) and the king went the way toward the plain.

25:5    迦勒底的軍隊追趕王，在耶利哥的平原追上他。他的全軍都離開他四散了。
And the army of the Chaldees pursued after the king, and overtook him in the plains of Jericho: and all his army were scattered from him.

25:6    迦勒底人就拿住王，帶他到在利比拉的巴比倫王那裡審判他。
So they took the king, and brought him up to the king of Babylon to Riblah; and they gave judgment upon him.

25:7    在西底家眼前殺了他的眾子，並且剜了西底家的眼睛，用銅鏈鎖著他，帶到巴比倫去。
And they slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes, and put out the eyes of Zedekiah, and bound him with fetters of brass, and carried him to Babylon.

25:8    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒十九年五月初七日，巴比倫王的臣僕，護衛長尼布撒拉旦來到耶路撒冷，
And in the fifth month, on the seventh day of the month, which is the nineteenth year of king Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, came Nebuzaradan, captain of the guard, a servant of the king of Babylon, unto Jerusalem:

25:9    用火焚燒耶和華的殿和王宮，又焚燒耶路撒冷的房屋，就是各大戶家的房屋。
And he burnt the house of the LORD, and the king's house, and all the houses of Jerusalem, and every great man's house burnt he with fire.

25:10    跟從護衛長迦勒底的全軍就拆毀耶路撒冷四圍的城牆。
And all the army of the Chaldees, that were with the captain of the guard, brake down the walls of Jerusalem round about.

25:11    那時護衛長尼布撒拉旦將城裡所剩下的百姓，並已經投降巴比倫王的人，以及大眾所剩下的人，都擄去了。
Now the rest of the people that were left in the city, and the fugitives that fell away to the king of Babylon, with the remnant of the multitude, did Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carry away.

25:12    但護衛長留下些民中最窮的，使他們修理葡萄園，耕種田地。
But the captain of the guard left of the poor of the land to be vinedressers and husbandmen.

25:13    耶和華殿的銅柱，並耶和華殿的盆座和銅海，迦勒底人都打碎了，將那銅運到巴比倫去了，
And the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD, and the bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD, did the Chaldees break in pieces, and carried the brass of them to Babylon.

25:14    又帶去鍋，鏟子，臘剪，調羹，並所用的一切銅器，
And the pots, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered, took they away.

25:15    火鼎，碗，無論金的銀的，護衛長也都帶去了。
And the firepans, and the bowls, and such things as were of gold, in gold, and of silver, in silver, the captain of the guard took away.

25:16    所羅門為耶和華殿所造的兩根銅柱，一個銅海，和幾個盆座，這一切的銅，多得無法可稱。
The two pillars, one sea, and the bases which Solomon had made for the house of the LORD; the brass of all these vessels was without weight.

25:17    這一根柱子高十八肘，柱上有銅頂，高三肘。銅頂的周圍有網子和石榴，都是銅的。那一根柱子，照此一樣，也有網子。
The height of the one pillar was eighteen cubits, and the chapiter upon it was brass: and the height of the chapiter three cubits; and the wreathen work, and pomegranates upon the chapiter round about, all of brass: and like unto these had the second pillar with wreathen work.

25:18    護衛長拿住大祭司西萊雅，副祭司西番亞，和三個把門的，
And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door:

25:19    又從城中拿住一個管理兵丁的官（或作太監），並在城裡所遇常見王面的五個人和檢點國民軍長的書記，以及城裡遇見的國民六十個人。
And out of the city he took an officer that was set over the men of war, and five men of them that were in the king's presence, which were found in the city, and the principal scribe of the host, which mustered the people of the land, and threescore men of the people of the land that were found in the city:

25:20    護衛長尼布撒拉旦將這些人帶到在利比拉的巴比倫王那裡。
And Nebuzaradan captain of the guard took these, and brought them to the king of Babylon to Riblah:

25:21    巴比倫王就把他們擊殺在哈馬地的利比拉。這樣，猶大人被擄去離開本地。
And the king of Babylon smote them, and slew them at Riblah in the land of Hamath. So Judah was carried away out of their land.

25:22    至於猶大國剩下的民，就是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒所剩下的，巴比倫王立了沙番的孫子，亞希甘的兒子基大利作他們的省長。
And as for the people that remained in the land of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon had left, even over them he made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, the son of Shaphan, ruler.

25:23    眾軍長和屬他們的人聽見巴比倫王立了基大利作省長，於是軍長尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利，加利亞的兒子約哈難，尼陀法人單戶蔑的兒子西萊雅，瑪迦人的兒子雅撒尼亞，和屬他們的人都到米斯巴見基大利。
And when all the captains of the armies, they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah governor, there came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan the son of Careah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth the Netophathite, and Jaazaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and their men.

25:24    基大利向他們和屬他們的人起誓說，你們不必懼怕迦勒底臣僕，只管住在這地服事巴比倫王，就可以得福。
And Gedaliah sware to them, and to their men, and said unto them, Fear not to be the servants of the Chaldees: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon; and it shall be well with you.

25:25    七月間，宗室以利沙瑪的孫子，尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利帶著十個人來，殺了基大利和同他在米斯巴的猶大人與迦勒底人。
But it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, came, and ten men with him, and smote Gedaliah, that he died, and the Jews and the Chaldees that were with him at Mizpah.

25:26    於是眾民，無論大小，連眾軍長。因為懼怕迦勒底人，都起身往埃及去了。
And all the people, both small and great, and the captains of the armies, arose, and came to Egypt: for they were afraid of the Chaldees.

25:27    猶大王約雅斤被擄後三十七年，巴比倫王以未米羅達元年十二月二十七日，使猶大王約雅斤抬頭，提他出監。
And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, on the seven and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of Babylon in the year that he began to reign did lift up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah out of prison;

25:28    又對他說恩言，使他的位高過與他一同在巴比倫眾王的位，
And he spake kindly to him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings that were with him in Babylon;

25:29    給他脫了囚服。他終身常在巴比倫王面前吃飯。
And changed his prison garments: and he did eat bread continually before him all the days of his life.

25:30    王賜他所需用的食物，日日賜他一分，終身都是這樣。
And his allowance was a continual allowance given him of the king, a daily rate for every day, all the days of his life.



