
舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


1:1    亞當生塞特。塞特生以挪士。
Adam, Sheth, Enosh,

1:2    以挪士生該南。該南生瑪勒列。瑪勒列生雅列。
Kenan, Mahalaleel, Jered,

1:3    雅列生以諾。以諾生瑪土撒拉。瑪土撒拉生拉麥。
Henoch, Methuselah, Lamech,

1:4    拉麥生挪亞。挪亞生閃，含，雅弗。
Noah, Shem, Ham, and Japheth.

1:5    雅弗的兒子是歌篾，瑪各，瑪代，雅完，土巴，米設，提拉。
The sons of Japheth; Gomer, and Magog, and Madai, and Javan, and Tubal, and Meshech, and Tiras.

1:6    歌篾的兒子是亞實基拿，低法（低法創世記十章三節是利法），陀迦瑪。
And the sons of Gomer; Ashchenaz, and Riphath, and Togarmah.

1:7    雅完的兒子是以利沙，他施，基提，多單（多單有作羅單的）。
And the sons of Javan; Elishah, and Tarshish, Kittim, and Dodanim.

1:8    含的兒子是古實，麥西，弗，迦南。
The sons of Ham; Cush, and Mizraim, Put, and Canaan.

1:9    古實的兒子是西巴，哈腓拉，撒弗他，拉瑪，撒弗提迦。拉瑪的兒子是示巴，底但。
And the sons of Cush; Seba, and Havilah, and Sabta, and Raamah, and Sabtecha. And the sons of Raamah; Sheba, and Dedan.

1:10    古實生寧錄。他為世上英雄之首。
And Cush begat Nimrod: he began to be mighty upon the earth.

1:11    麥西生路低人，亞拿米人，利哈比人，拿弗土希人，
And Mizraim begat Ludim, and Anamim, and Lehabim, and Naphtuhim,

1:12    帕斯魯細人，迦斯路希人，迦斐託人。從迦斐托出來的有非利士人。
And Pathrusim, and Casluhim, (of whom came the Philistines,) and Caphthorim.

1:13    迦南生長子西頓，又生赫
And Canaan begat Zidon his firstborn, and Heth,

1:14    和耶布斯人，亞摩利人，革迦撒人，
The Jebusite also, and the Amorite, and the Girgashite,

1:15    希未人，亞基人，西尼人，
And the Hivite, and the Arkite, and the Sinite,

1:16    亞瓦底人，洗瑪利人，並哈馬人。
And the Arvadite, and the Zemarite, and the Hamathite.

1:17    閃的兒子是以攔，亞述，亞法撒，路德，亞蘭，烏斯，戶勒，基帖，米設（米設創世記十章二十三節作瑪施）。
The sons of Shem; Elam, and Asshur, and Arphaxad, and Lud, and Aram, and Uz, and Hul, and Gether, and Meshech.

1:18    亞法撒生沙拉。沙拉生希伯。
And Arphaxad begat Shelah, and Shelah begat Eber.

1:19    希伯生了兩個兒子，一個名叫法勒（法勒就是分的意思），因為那時人就分地居住。法勒的兄弟名叫約坍。
And unto Eber were born two sons: the name of the one was Peleg; because in his days the earth was divided: and his brother's name was Joktan.

1:20    約坍生亞摩答，沙列，哈薩瑪非，耶拉，
And Joktan begat Almodad, and Sheleph, and Hazarmaveth, and Jerah,

1:21    哈多蘭，烏薩，德拉，
Hadoram also, and Uzal, and Diklah,

1:22    以巴錄，亞比瑪利，示巴，
And Ebal, and Abimael, and Sheba,

1:23    阿斐，哈腓拉，約巴。這都是約坍的兒子。
And Ophir, and Havilah, and Jobab. All these were the sons of Joktan.

1:24    閃生亞法撒。亞法撒生沙拉。
Shem, Arphaxad, Shelah,

1:25    沙拉生希伯。希伯生法勒。法勒生拉吳。
Eber, Peleg, Reu,

1:26    拉吳生西鹿。西鹿生拿鶴。拿鶴生他拉。
Serug, Nahor, Terah,

1:27    他拉生亞伯蘭，亞伯蘭就是亞伯拉罕。
Abram; the same is Abraham.

1:28    亞伯拉罕的兒子是以撒，以實瑪利。
The sons of Abraham; Isaac, and Ishmael.

1:29    以實瑪利的兒子記在下面，以實瑪利的長子是尼拜約，其次是基達，押德別，米比衫，
These are their generations: The firstborn of Ishmael, Nebaioth; then Kedar, and Adbeel, and Mibsam,

1:30    米施瑪，度瑪，瑪撒，哈達，提瑪，
Mishma, and Dumah, Massa, Hadad, and Tema,

1:31    伊突，拿非施，基底瑪。這都是以實瑪利的兒子。
Jetur, Naphish, and Kedemah. These are the sons of Ishmael.

1:32    亞伯拉罕的妾基土拉所生的兒子，就是心蘭，約珊，米但，米甸，伊施巴，書亞。約珊的兒子是示巴，底但。
Now the sons of Keturah, Abraham's concubine: she bare Zimran, and Jokshan, and Medan, and Midian, and Ishbak, and Shuah. And the sons of Jokshan; Sheba, and Dedan.

1:33    米甸的兒子是以法，以弗，哈諾，亞比大，以勒大。這都是基土拉的子孫。
And the sons of Midian; Ephah, and Epher, and Henoch, and Abida, and Eldaah. All these are the sons of Keturah.

1:34    亞伯拉罕生以撒。以撒的兒子是以掃和以色列。
And Abraham begat Isaac. The sons of Isaac; Esau and Israel.

1:35    以掃的兒子是以利法，流珥，耶烏施，雅蘭，可拉。
The sons of Esau; Eliphaz, Reuel, and Jeush, and Jaalam, and Korah.

1:36    以利法的兒子是毯螅，阿抹，洗玻，迦坦，基納斯，亭納，亞瑪力。
The sons of Eliphaz; Teman, and Omar, Zephi, and Gatam, Kenaz, and Timna, and Amalek.

1:37    流珥的兒子是拿哈，謝拉，沙瑪，米撒。
The sons of Reuel; Nahath, Zerah, Shammah, and Mizzah.

1:38    西珥的兒子是羅坍，朔巴，祭便，亞拿，底順，以察，底珊。
And the sons of Seir; Lotan, and Shobal, and Zibeon, and Anah, and Dishon, and Ezar, and Dishan.

1:39    羅坍的兒子是何利，荷幔。羅坍的妹子是亭納。
And the sons of Lotan; Hori, and Homam: and Timna was Lotan's sister.

1:40    朔巴的兒子是亞勒文，瑪拿轄，以巴錄，示非，阿南。祭便的兒子是亞雅，亞拿。
The sons of Shobal; Alian, and Manahath, and Ebal, Shephi, and Onam. And the sons of Zibeon; Aiah, and Anah.

1:41    亞拿的兒子是底順。底順的兒子是哈默蘭，伊是班，益蘭，基蘭。
The sons of Anah; Dishon. And the sons of Dishon; Amram, and Eshban, and Ithran, and Cheran.

1:42    以察的兒子是闢罕，撒番，亞幹。底珊的兒子是烏斯，亞蘭。
The sons of Ezer; Bilhan, and Zavan, and Jakan. The sons of Dishan; Uz, and Aran.

1:43    以色列人未有君王治理之先，在以東地作王的記在下面，有比珥的兒子比拉，他的京城名叫亭哈巴。
Now these are the kings that reigned in the land of Edom before any king reigned over the children of Israel; Bela the son of Beor: and the name of his city was Dinhabah.

1:44    比拉死了，波斯拉人謝拉的兒子約巴接續他作王。
And when Bela was dead, Jobab the son of Zerah of Bozrah reigned in his stead.

1:45    約巴死了，毯螅地的人戶珊接續他作王。
And when Jobab was dead, Husham of the land of the Temanites reigned in his stead.

1:46    戶珊死了，比達的兒子哈達接續他作王。這哈達就是在摩押地殺敗米甸人的，他的京城名叫亞未得。
And when Husham was dead, Hadad the son of Bedad, which smote Midian in the field of Moab, reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Avith.

1:47    哈達死了，瑪士利加人桑拉接續他作王。
And when Hadad was dead, Samlah of Masrekah reigned in his stead.

1:48    桑拉死了，大河邊的利河伯人掃羅接續他作王。
And when Samlah was dead, Shaul of Rehoboth by the river reigned in his stead.

1:49    掃羅死了，亞革波的兒子巴勒哈南接續他作王。
And when Shaul was dead, Baalhanan the son of Achbor reigned in his stead.

1:50    巴勒哈南死了，哈達接續他作王。他的京城名叫巴伊，他的妻子名叫米希她別，是米薩合的孫女，瑪特列的女兒。
And when Baalhanan was dead, Hadad reigned in his stead: and the name of his city was Pai; and his wife's name was Mehetabel, the daughter of Matred, the daughter of Mezahab.

1:51    哈達死了，以東人的族長有亭納族長，亞勒瓦族長，耶帖族長，
Hadad died also. And the dukes of Edom were; duke Timnah, duke Aliah, duke Jetheth,

1:52    亞何利巴瑪族長，以拉族長，比嫩族長，
Duke Aholibamah, duke Elah, duke Pinon,

1:53    基納斯族長，毯螅族長，米比薩族長，
Duke Kenaz, duke Teman, duke Mibzar,

1:54    瑪基疊族長，以蘭族長。這都是以東人的族長。
Duke Magdiel, duke Iram. These are the dukes of Edom.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


2:1    以色列的兒子是流便，西緬，利未，猶大，以薩迦，西布倫，
These are the sons of Israel; Reuben, Simeon, Levi, and Judah, Issachar, and Zebulun,

2:2    但，約瑟，便雅憫，拿弗他利，迦得，亞設。
Dan, Joseph, and Benjamin, Naphtali, Gad, and Asher.

2:3    猶大的兒子是珥，俄南，示拉，這三人是迦南人書亞女兒所生的。猶大的長子珥在耶和華眼中看為惡，耶和華就使他死了。
The sons of Judah; Er, and Onan, and Shelah: which three were born unto him of the daughter of Shua the Canaanitess. And Er, the firstborn of Judah, was evil in the sight of the LORD; and he slew him.

2:4    猶大的兒婦她瑪給猶大生法勒斯和謝拉。猶大共有五個兒子。
And Tamar his daughter in law bore him Pharez and Zerah. All the sons of Judah were five.

2:5    法勒斯的兒子是希斯崙，哈母勒。
The sons of Pharez; Hezron, and Hamul.

2:6    謝拉的兒子是心利，以探，希幔，甲各，大拉（大拉即達大），共五人。
And the sons of Zerah; Zimri, and Ethan, and Heman, and Calcol, and Dara: five of them in all.

2:7    迦米的兒子是亞幹，這亞幹在當滅的物上犯了罪，連累了以色列人。
And the sons of Carmi; Achar, the troubler of Israel, who transgressed in the thing accursed.

2:8    以探的兒子是亞撒利雅。
And the sons of Ethan; Azariah.

2:9    希斯崙所生的兒子是耶拉篾，蘭，基路拜。
The sons also of Hezron, that were born unto him; Jerahmeel, and Ram, and Chelubai.

2:10    蘭生亞米拿達。亞米拿達生拿順。拿順作猶大人的首領。
And Ram begat Amminadab; and Amminadab begat Nahshon, prince of the children of Judah;

2:11    拿順生撒門。撒門生波阿斯。
And Nahshon begat Salma, and Salma begat Boaz,

2:12    波阿斯生俄備得。俄備得生耶西。
And Boaz begat Obed, and Obed begat Jesse,

2:13    耶西生長子以利押，次子亞比拿達，三子示米亞（示米亞即沙瑪，見撒母耳上十六章九節），
And Jesse begat his firstborn Eliab, and Abinadab the second, and Shimma the third,

2:14    四子拿坦業，五子拉代，
Nethaneel the fourth, Raddai the fifth,

2:15    六子阿鮮，七子大衛。
Ozem the sixth, David the seventh:

2:16    他們的姊妹是洗魯雅和亞比該。洗魯雅的兒子是亞比篩，約押，亞撒黑，共三人。
Whose sisters were Zeruiah, and Abigail. And the sons of Zeruiah; Abishai, and Joab, and Asahel, three.

2:17    亞比該生亞瑪撒。亞瑪撒的父親是以實瑪利人益帖。
And Abigail bare Amasa: and the father of Amasa was Jether the Ishmeelite.



2:18    希斯崙的兒子迦勒娶阿蘇巴和耶略為妻，阿蘇巴的兒子是耶設，朔吧，押墩。
And Caleb the son of Hezron begat children of Azubah his wife, and of Jerioth: her sons are these; Jesher, and Shobab, and Ardon.

2:19    阿蘇巴死了，迦勒又娶以法她，生了戶珥。
And when Azubah was dead, Caleb took unto him Ephrath, which bare him Hur.

2:20    戶珥生烏利。烏利生比撒列。
And Hur begat Uri, and Uri begat Bezaleel.

2:21    希斯崙正六十歲娶了基列父親瑪吉的女兒，與她同房。瑪吉的女兒生了西割。
And afterward Hezron went in to the daughter of Machir the father of Gilead, whom he married when he was threescore years old; and she bare him Segub.

2:22    西割生睚珥。睚珥在基列地有二十三個城邑。
And Segub begat Jair, who had three and twenty cities in the land of Gilead.

2:23    後來基述人和亞蘭人奪了睚珥的城邑，並基納和其鄉村，共六十個。這都是基列父親瑪吉之子的。
And he took Geshur, and Aram, with the towns of Jair, from them, with Kenath, and the towns thereof, even threescore cities. All these belonged to the sons of Machir the father of Gilead.

2:24    希斯崙在迦勒以法他死後，他的妻亞比雅給他生了亞施戶。亞施戶是提哥亞的父親。
And after that Hezron was dead in Calebephratah, then Abiah Hezron's wife bare him Ashur the father of Tekoa.

2:25    希斯崙的長子耶拉篾生長子蘭，又生布拿，阿連，阿鮮，亞希雅。
And the sons of Jerahmeel the firstborn of Hezron were, Ram the firstborn, and Bunah, and Oren, and Ozem, and Ahijah.

2:26    耶拉篾又娶一妻名叫亞她拉，是阿南的母親。
Jerahmeel had also another wife, whose name was Atarah; she was the mother of Onam.

2:27    耶拉篾長子蘭的兒子是瑪斯，雅憫，以結。
And the sons of Ram the firstborn of Jerahmeel were, Maaz, and Jamin, and Eker.

2:28    阿南的兒子是沙買，雅大。沙買的兒子是拿答，亞比述。
And the sons of Onam were, Shammai, and Jada. And the sons of Shammai; Nadab, and Abishur.

2:29    亞比述的妻名叫亞比孩，亞比孩給他生了亞辦和摩利。
And the name of the wife of Abishur was Abihail, and she bare him Ahban, and Molid.

2:30    拿答的兒子是西列，亞遍。西列死了沒有兒子。
And the sons of Nadab; Seled, and Appaim: but Seled died without children.

2:31    亞遍的兒子是以示。以示的兒子是示珊。示珊的兒子是亞來。
And the sons of Appaim; Ishi. And the sons of Ishi; Sheshan. And the children of Sheshan; Ahlai.

2:32    沙買兄弟雅大的兒子是益帖，約拿單。益帖死了沒有兒子。
And the sons of Jada the brother of Shammai; Jether, and Jonathan: and Jether died without children.

2:33    約拿單的兒子是比勒，撒薩。這都是耶拉篾的子孫。
And the sons of Jonathan; Peleth, and Zaza. These were the sons of Jerahmeel.

2:34    示珊沒有兒子，只有女兒。示珊有一個僕人名叫耶哈，是埃及人。
Now Sheshan had no sons, but daughters. And Sheshan had a servant, an Egyptian, whose name was Jarha.

2:35    示珊將女兒給了僕人耶哈為妻，給他生了亞太。
And Sheshan gave his daughter to Jarha his servant to wife; and she bare him Attai.

2:36    亞太生拿單。拿單生撒拔。
And Attai begat Nathan, and Nathan begat Zabad,



2:37    撒拔生以弗拉。以弗拉生俄備得。
And Zabad begat Ephlal, and Ephlal begat Obed,

2:38    俄備得生耶戶。耶戶生亞撒利雅。
And Obed begat Jehu, and Jehu begat Azariah,

2:39    亞撒利雅生希利斯。希利斯生以利亞薩。
And Azariah begat Helez, and Helez begat Eleasah,

2:40    以利亞薩生西斯買。西斯買生沙龍。
And Eleasah begat Sisamai, and Sisamai begat Shallum,

2:41    沙龍生耶加米雅。耶加米雅生以利沙瑪。
And Shallum begat Jekamiah, and Jekamiah begat Elishama.

2:42    耶拉篾兄弟迦勒的長子米沙，是西弗之祖瑪利沙的兒子，是希伯侖之祖。
Now the sons of Caleb the brother of Jerahmeel were, Mesha his firstborn, which was the father of Ziph; and the sons of Mareshah the father of Hebron.

2:43    希伯侖的兒子是可拉，他普亞，利肯，示瑪。
And the sons of Hebron; Korah, and Tappuah, and Rekem, and Shema.

2:44    示瑪生拉含，是約幹之祖。利肯生沙買。
And Shema begat Raham, the father of Jorkoam: and Rekem begat Shammai.

2:45    沙買的兒子是瑪雲。瑪雲是伯夙之祖。
And the son of Shammai was Maon: and Maon was the father of Bethzur.

2:46    迦勒的妾以法生哈蘭，摩撒，迦謝。哈蘭生迦卸。
And Ephah, Caleb's concubine, bare Haran, and Moza, and Gazez: and Haran begat Gazez.

2:47    雅代的兒子是利健，約坦，基珊，毗力，以法，沙亞弗。
And the sons of Jahdai; Regem, and Jotham, and Gesham, and Pelet, and Ephah, and Shaaph.

2:48    迦勒的妾瑪迦生示別，特哈拿，
Maachah, Caleb's concubine, bare Sheber, and Tirhanah.

2:49    又生麥瑪拿之祖沙亞弗，抹比拿和基比亞之祖示法。迦勒的女兒是押撒。
She bare also Shaaph the father of Madmannah, Sheva the father of Machbenah, and the father of Gibea: and the daughter of Caleb was Achsa.

2:50    迦勒的子孫就是以法她的長子，戶珥的兒子，記在下面，基列耶琳之祖朔巴，
These were the sons of Caleb the son of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah; Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim,

2:51    伯利恆之祖薩瑪，伯迦得之祖哈勒。
Salma the father of Bethlehem, Hareph the father of Bethgader.

2:52    基列耶琳之祖朔巴的子孫是哈羅以和一半米努哈人（米努哈人即瑪拿哈人）。
And Shobal the father of Kirjathjearim had sons; Haroeh, and half of the Manahethites.

2:53    基列耶琳的諸族是以帖人，布特人，舒瑪人，密來人，又從這些族中生出瑣拉人和以實陶人來。
And the families of Kirjathjearim; the Ithrites, and the Puhites, and the Shumathites, and the Mishraites; of them came the Zareathites, and the Eshtaulites.

2:54    薩瑪的子孫是伯利恆人，尼陀法人，亞他綠伯約押人，一半瑪拿哈人，瑣利人，
The sons of Salma; Bethlehem, and the Netophathites, Ataroth, the house of Joab, and half of the Manahethites, the Zorites.

2:55    和住雅比斯眾文士家的特拉人，示米押人，蘇甲人。這都是基尼人利甲家之祖哈末所生的。
And the families of the scribes which dwelt at Jabez; the Tirathites, the Shimeathites, and Suchathites. These are the Kenites that came of Hemath, the father of the house of Rechab.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


3:1    大衛在希伯侖所生的兒子記在下面，長子暗嫩是耶斯列人亞希暖生的。次子但以利是迦密人亞比該生的。
Now these were the sons of David, which were born unto him in Hebron; the firstborn Amnon, of Ahinoam the Jezreelitess; the second Daniel, of Abigail the Carmelitess:

3:2    三子押沙龍是基述王達買的女兒瑪迦生的。四子亞多尼雅是哈及生的。
The third, Absalom the son of Maachah the daughter of Talmai king of Geshur: the fourth, Adonijah the son of Haggith:

3:3    五子示法提雅是亞比她生的。六子以特念是大衛的妻以格拉生的。
The fifth, Shephatiah of Abital: the sixth, Ithream by Eglah his wife.

3:4    這六人都是大衛在希伯侖生的。大衛在希伯侖作王七年零六個月，在耶路撒冷作王三十三年。
These six were born unto him in Hebron; and there he reigned seven years and six months: and in Jerusalem he reigned thirty and three years.

3:5    大衛在耶路撒冷所生的兒子是示米亞，朔吧，拿單，所羅門。這四人是亞米利的女兒拔書亞生的。
And these were born unto him in Jerusalem; Shimea, and Shobab, and Nathan, and Solomon, four, of Bathshua the daughter of Ammiel:

3:6    還有益轄，以利沙瑪，以利法列，
Ibhar also, and Elishama, and Eliphelet,

3:7    挪迦，尼斐，雅非亞，
And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

3:8    以利沙瑪，以利雅大，以利法列，共九人。
And Elishama, and Eliada, and Eliphelet, nine.



3:9    這都是大衛的兒子，還有他們的妹子她瑪，妃嬪的兒子不在其內。
These were all the sons of David, beside the sons of the concubines, and Tamar their sister.

3:10    所羅門的兒子是羅波安。羅波安的兒子是亞比雅。亞比雅的兒子是亞撒。亞撒的兒子是約沙法。
And Solomon's son was Rehoboam, Abia his son, Asa his son, Jehoshaphat his son,

3:11    約沙法的兒子是約蘭。約蘭的兒子是亞哈謝。亞哈謝的兒子是約阿施。
Joram his son, Ahaziah his son, Joash his son,

3:12    約阿施的兒子是亞瑪謝。亞瑪謝的兒子是亞撒利雅。亞撒利雅的兒子是約坦。
Amaziah his son, Azariah his son, Jotham his son,

3:13    約坦的兒子是亞哈斯。亞哈斯的兒子是希西家。希西家的兒子是瑪拿西。
Ahaz his son, Hezekiah his son, Manasseh his son,

3:14    瑪拿西的兒子是亞們。亞們的兒子是約西亞。
Amon his son, Josiah his son.

3:15    約西亞的長子是約哈難，次子是約雅敬，三子是西底家，四子是沙龍。
And the sons of Josiah were, the firstborn Johanan, the second Jehoiakim, the third Zedekiah, the fourth Shallum.

3:16    約雅敬的兒子是耶哥尼雅和西底家。
And the sons of Jehoiakim: Jeconiah his son, Zedekiah his son.

3:17    耶哥尼雅被擄。他的兒子是撒拉鐵，
And the sons of Jeconiah; Assir, Salathiel his son,

3:18    瑪基蘭，毗大雅，示拿薩，耶加米，何沙瑪，尼大比雅。
Malchiram also, and Pedaiah, and Shenazar, Jecamiah, Hoshama, and Nedabiah.

3:19    毗大雅的兒子是所羅巴伯，示每。所羅巴伯的兒子是米書蘭，哈拿尼雅，他們的妹子名叫示羅密。
And the sons of Pedaiah were, Zerubbabel, and Shimei: and the sons of Zerubbabel; Meshullam, and Hananiah, and Shelomith their sister:

3:20    米書蘭的兒子是哈舒巴，阿黑，比利家，哈撒底，於沙希悉，共五人。
And Hashubah, and Ohel, and Berechiah, and Hasadiah, Jushabhesed, five.

3:21    哈拿尼雅的兒子是毗拉提，耶篩亞。還有利法雅的眾子，亞珥難的眾子，俄巴底亞的眾子，示迦尼的眾子。
And the sons of Hananiah; Pelatiah, and Jesaiah: the sons of Rephaiah, the sons of Arnan, the sons of Obadiah, the sons of Shechaniah.

3:22    示迦尼的兒子是示瑪雅。示瑪雅的兒子是哈突，以甲，巴利亞，尼利雅，沙法，共六人。
And the sons of Shechaniah; Shemaiah: and the sons of Shemaiah; Hattush, and Igeal, and Bariah, and Neariah, and Shaphat, six.

3:23    尼利雅的兒子是以利約乃，希西家，亞斯利幹，共三人。
And the sons of Neariah; Elioenai, and Hezekiah, and Azrikam, three.

3:24    以利約乃的兒子是何大雅，以利亞實，毗萊雅，阿谷，約哈難，第萊雅，阿拿尼，共七人。
And the sons of Elioenai were, Hodaiah, and Eliashib, and Pelaiah, and Akkub, and Johanan, and Dalaiah, and Anani, seven.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


4:1    猶大的兒子是法勒斯，希斯崙，迦米，戶珥，朔巴。
The sons of Judah; Pharez, Hezron, and Carmi, and Hur, and Shobal.

4:2    朔巴的兒子利亞雅生雅哈。雅哈生亞戶買和拉哈。這是瑣拉人的諸族。
And Reaiah the son of Shobal begat Jahath; and Jahath begat Ahumai, and Lahad. These are the families of the Zorathites.

4:3    以坦之祖的兒子是耶斯列，伊施瑪，伊得巴。他們的妹子名叫哈悉勒玻尼。
And these were of the father of Etam; Jezreel, and Ishma, and Idbash: and the name of their sister was Hazelelponi:

4:4    基多之祖是毗努伊勒。戶沙之祖是以謝珥。這都是伯利恆之祖以法她的長子戶珥所生的。
And Penuel the father of Gedor, and Ezer the father of Hushah. These are the sons of Hur, the firstborn of Ephratah, the father of Bethlehem.

4:5    提哥亞之祖亞施戶有兩個妻子，一名希拉，一名拿拉。
And Ashur the father of Tekoa had two wives, Helah and Naarah.

4:6    拿拉給亞施戶生亞戶撒，希弗，提米尼，哈轄斯他利。這都是拿拉的兒子。
And Naarah bare him Ahuzam, and Hepher, and Temeni, and Haahashtari. These were the sons of Naarah.

4:7    希拉的兒子是洗列，瑣轄，伊提南。
And the sons of Helah were, Zereth, and Jezoar, and Ethnan.

4:8    哥斯生亞諾，瑣比巴，並哈侖兒子亞哈黑的諸族。
And Coz begat Anub, and Zobebah, and the families of Aharhel the son of Harum.

4:9    雅比斯比他眾弟兄更尊貴，他母親給他起名叫雅比斯，意思說，我生他甚是痛苦。
And Jabez was more honourable than his brethren: and his mother called his name Jabez, saying, Because I bare him with sorrow.

4:10    雅比斯求告以色列的神說，甚願你賜福與我，擴張我的境界，常與我同在，保佑我不遭患難，不受艱苦。神就應允他所求的。
And Jabez called on the God of Israel, saying, Oh that thou wouldest bless me indeed, and enlarge my coast, and that thine hand might be with me, and that thou wouldest keep me from evil, that it may not grieve me! And God granted him that which he requested.

4:11    書哈的弟兄基綠生米黑，米黑是伊施屯之祖。
And Chelub the brother of Shuah begat Mehir, which was the father of Eshton.

4:12    伊施屯生伯拉巴，巴西亞，並珥拿轄之祖提欣拿，這都是利迦人。
And Eshton begat Bethrapha, and Paseah, and Tehinnah the father of Irnahash. These are the men of Rechah.

4:13    基納斯的兒子是俄陀聶，西萊雅。俄陀聶的兒子是哈塔。
And the sons of Kenaz; Othniel, and Seraiah: and the sons of Othniel; Hathath.

4:14    憫挪太生俄弗拉。西萊雅生革夏納欣人之祖約押。他們都是匠人。
And Meonothai begat Ophrah: and Seraiah begat Joab, the father of the valley of Charashim; for they were craftsmen.

4:15    耶孚尼的兒子是迦勒。迦勒的兒子是以路，以拉，拿安。以拉的兒子是基納斯。
And the sons of Caleb the son of Jephunneh; Iru, Elah, and Naam: and the sons of Elah, even Kenaz.

4:16    耶哈利勒的兒子是西弗，西法，提利，亞撒列。
And the sons of Jehaleleel; Ziph, and Ziphah, Tiria, and Asareel.

4:17    *
And the sons of Ezra were, Jether, and Mered, and Epher, and Jalon: and she bare Miriam, and Shammai, and Ishbah the father of Eshtemoa.

4:18    以斯拉的兒子是益帖，米列，以弗，雅倫。米列娶法老女兒比提雅為妻，生米利暗，沙買，和以實提摩之祖益巴。米列又娶猶大女子為妻，生基多之祖雅列，梭哥之祖希伯，和撒挪亞之祖耶古鐵。
And his wife Jehudijah bare Jered the father of Gedor, and Heber the father of Socho, and Jekuthiel the father of Zanoah. And these are the sons of Bithiah the daughter of Pharaoh, which Mered took.

4:19    荷第雅的妻是拿含的妹子，她所生的兒子是迦米人基伊拉和瑪迦人以實提摩之祖。
And the sons of his wife Hodiah the sister of Naham, the father of Keilah the Garmite, and Eshtemoa the Maachathite.

4:20    示門的兒子是暗嫩，林拿，便哈南，提倫。以示的兒子是梭黑與便梭黑。
And the sons of Shimon were, Amnon, and Rinnah, Benhanan, and Tilon. And the sons of Ishi were, Zoheth, and Benzoheth.

4:21    猶大的兒子是示拉。示拉的兒子是利迦之祖珥，瑪利沙之祖拉大，和屬亞實比族織細麻布的各家。
The sons of Shelah the son of Judah were, Er the father of Lecah, and Laadah the father of Mareshah, and the families of the house of them that wrought fine linen, of the house of Ashbea,

4:22    還有約敬，哥西巴人，約阿施，薩拉，就是在摩押地掌權的，又有雅叔比利恆。這都是古時所記載的。
And Jokim, and the men of Chozeba, and Joash, and Saraph, who had the dominion in Moab, and Jashubilehem. And these are ancient things.

4:23    這些人都是窯匠，是尼他應和基低拉的居民。與王同處，為王作工。
These were the potters, and those that dwelt among plants and hedges: there they dwelt with the king for his work.

4:24    西緬的兒子是尼母利，雅憫，雅立，謝拉，掃羅。
The sons of Simeon were, Nemuel, and Jamin, Jarib, Zerah, and Shaul:

4:25    掃羅的兒子是沙龍。沙龍的兒子是米比衫。米比衫的兒子是米施瑪。
Shallum his son, Mibsam his son, Mishma his son.

4:26    米施瑪的兒子是哈母利。哈母利的兒子是撒刻。撒刻的兒子是示每。
And the sons of Mishma; Hamuel his son, Zacchur his son, Shimei his son.

4:27    示每有十六個兒子，六個女兒，他弟兄的兒女不多，他們各家不如猶大族的人丁增多。
And Shimei had sixteen sons and six daughters; but his brethren had not many children, neither did all their family multiply, like to the children of Judah.

4:28    西緬人住在別是巴，摩拉大，哈薩書亞，
And they dwelt at Beersheba, and Moladah, and Hazarshual,

4:29    闢拉，以森，陀臘，
And at Bilhah, and at Ezem, and at Tolad,

4:30    彼土利，何珥瑪，洗革拉，
And at Bethuel, and at Hormah, and at Ziklag,

4:31    伯瑪嘉博，哈薩蘇撒，伯比利，沙拉音，這些城邑直到大衛作王的時候都是屬西緬人的。
And at Bethmarcaboth, and Hazarsusim, and at Bethbirei, and at Shaaraim. These were their cities unto the reign of David.

4:32    他們的五個城邑是以坦，亞因，臨門，陀健，亞珊。
And their villages were, Etam, and Ain, Rimmon, and Tochen, and Ashan, five cities:

4:33    還有屬城的鄉村，直到巴力。這是他們的住處，他們都有家譜。
And all their villages that were round about the same cities, unto Baal. These were their habitations, and their genealogy.

4:34    還有米所巴，雅米勒，亞瑪謝的兒子約沙，
And Meshobab, and Jamlech, and Joshah, the son of Amaziah,

4:35    約珥，約示比的兒子耶戶。約示比是西萊雅的兒子。西萊雅是亞薛的兒子。
And Joel, and Jehu the son of Josibiah, the son of Seraiah, the son of Asiel,

4:36    還有以利約乃，雅哥巴，約朔海，亞帥雅，亞底業，耶西篾，比拿雅，
And Elioenai, and Jaakobah, and Jeshohaiah, and Asaiah, and Adiel, and Jesimiel, and Benaiah,

4:37    示非的兒子細撒。示非是亞龍的兒子。亞龍是耶大雅的兒子。耶大雅是申利的兒子。申利是示瑪雅的兒子。
And Ziza the son of Shiphi, the son of Allon, the son of Jedaiah, the son of Shimri, the son of Shemaiah;

4:38    以上所記的人名都是作族長的，他們宗族的人數增多。
These mentioned by their names were princes in their families: and the house of their fathers increased greatly.

4:39    他們往平原東邊基多口去，尋梢牧放羊群的草場，
And they went to the entrance of Gedor, even unto the east side of the valley, to seek pasture for their flocks.

4:40    尋得肥美的草場地，又寬闊又平靜。從前住那裡的是含族的人。
And they found fat pasture and good, and the land was wide, and quiet, and peaceable; for they of Ham had dwelt there of old.

4:41    以上錄名的人，在猶大王希西家年間，來攻擊含族人的帳棚和那裡所有的米烏尼人，將他們滅盡，就住在他們的地方，直到今日，因為那裡有草場可以牧放羊群。
And these written by name came in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and smote their tents, and the habitations that were found there, and destroyed them utterly unto this day, and dwelt in their rooms: because there was pasture there for their flocks.

4:42    這西緬人中，有五百人上西珥山，率領他們的是以示的兒子毗拉提，尼利雅，利法雅，和烏薛，
And some of them, even of the sons of Simeon, five hundred men, went to mount Seir, having for their captains Pelatiah, and Neariah, and Rephaiah, and Uzziel, the sons of Ishi.

4:43    殺了逃脫剩下的亞瑪力人，就住在那裡直到今日。
And they smote the rest of the Amalekites that were escaped, and dwelt there unto this day.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


5:1    以色列的長子原是流便。因他汙穢了父親的床，他長子的名分就歸了約瑟。只是按家譜他不算長子。
Now the sons of Reuben the firstborn of Israel, (for he was the firstborn; but, forasmuch as he defiled his father's bed, his birthright was given unto the sons of Joseph the son of Israel: and the genealogy is not to be reckoned after the birthright.

5:2    猶大勝過一切弟兄，君王也是從他而出。長子的名分卻歸約瑟。
For Judah prevailed above his brethren, and of him came the chief ruler; but the birthright was Joseph's:)

5:3    以色列長子流便的兒子是哈諾，法路，希斯倫，迦米。
The sons, I say, of Reuben the firstborn of Israel were, Hanoch, and Pallu, Hezron, and Carmi.

5:4    約珥的兒子是示瑪雅。示瑪雅的兒子是歌革。歌革的兒子是示每。
The sons of Joel; Shemaiah his son, Gog his son, Shimei his son,

5:5    示每的兒子是米迦。米迦的兒子是利亞雅。利亞雅的兒子是巴力。
Micah his son, Reaia his son, Baal his son,

5:6    巴力的兒子是備拉。這備拉作流便支派的首領，被亞述王提革拉毗尼色擄去。
Beerah his son, whom Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria carried away captive: he was prince of the Reubenites.

5:7    他的弟兄照著宗族，按著家譜作族長的是耶利，撒迦利雅，比拉。
And his brethren by their families, when the genealogy of their generations was reckoned, were the chief, Jeiel, and Zechariah,

5:8    比拉是亞撒的兒子。亞撒是示瑪的兒子。示瑪是約珥的兒子。約珥所住的地方是從亞羅珥直到尼波和巴力免，
And Bela the son of Azaz, the son of Shema, the son of Joel, who dwelt in Aroer, even unto Nebo and Baalmeon:

5:9    又向東延到幼發拉底河這邊的曠野，因為他們在基列地牲畜增多。
And eastward he inhabited unto the entering in of the wilderness from the river Euphrates: because their cattle were multiplied in the land of Gilead.

5:10    掃羅年間，他們與夏甲人爭戰，夏甲人倒在他們手下，他們就在基列東邊的全地，住在夏甲人的帳棚裡。
And in the days of Saul they made war with the Hagarites, who fell by their hand: and they dwelt in their tents throughout all the east land of Gilead.

5:11    迦得的子孫在流便對面，住在巴珊地，延到撒迦。
And the children of Gad dwelt over against them, in the land of Bashan unto Salcah:

5:12    他們中間有作族長的約珥，有作副族長的沙番，還有雅乃和住在巴珊的沙法。
Joel the chief, and Shapham the next, and Jaanai, and Shaphat in Bashan.

5:13    他們族弟兄是米迦勒，米書蘭，示巴，約賴，雅幹，細亞，希伯，共七人。
And their brethren of the house of their fathers were, Michael, and Meshullam, and Sheba, and Jorai, and Jachan, and Zia, and Heber, seven.

5:14    這都是亞比孩的兒子。亞比孩是戶利的兒子。戶利是耶羅亞的兒子。耶羅亞是基列的兒子。基列是米迦勒的兒子。米迦勒是耶示篩的兒子。耶示篩是耶哈多的兒子。耶哈多是布斯的兒子。
These are the children of Abihail the son of Huri, the son of Jaroah, the son of Gilead, the son of Michael, the son of Jeshishai, the son of Jahdo, the son of Buz;

5:15    還有古尼的孫子，押比疊的兒子亞希。這都是作族長的。
Ahi the son of Abdiel, the son of Guni, chief of the house of their fathers.

5:16    他們住在基列與巴珊和巴珊的鄉村，並沙崙的郊野，直到四圍的交界。
And they dwelt in Gilead in Bashan, and in her towns, and in all the suburbs of Sharon, upon their borders.

5:17    這些人在猶大王約坦並在以色列王耶羅波安年間，都載入家譜。
All these were reckoned by genealogies in the days of Jotham king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam king of Israel.

5:18    流便人，迦得人，和瑪拿西半支派的人，能拿盾牌和刀劍，拉弓射箭，出征善戰的勇士共有四萬四千七百六十名。
The sons of Reuben, and the Gadites, and half the tribe of Manasseh, of valiant men, men able to bear buckler and sword, and to shoot with bow, and skilful in war, were four and forty thousand seven hundred and threescore, that went out to the war.

5:19    他們與夏甲人，伊突人，拿非施人，挪答人爭戰。
And they made war with the Hagarites, with Jetur, and Nephish, and Nodab.

5:20    他們得了神的幫助，夏甲人和跟隨夏甲的人都交在他們手中。因為他們在陣上呼求神，倚賴神，神就應允他們。
And they were helped against them, and the Hagarites were delivered into their hand, and all that were with them: for they cried to God in the battle, and he was intreated of them; because they put their trust in him.

5:21    他們擄掠了夏甲人的牲畜，有駱駝五萬，羊二十五萬，驢二千。又有人十萬。
And they took away their cattle; of their camels fifty thousand, and of sheep two hundred and fifty thousand, and of asses two thousand, and of men an hundred thousand.

5:22    敵人被殺仆倒的甚多，因為這爭戰是出乎神。他們就住在敵人的地上，直到被擄的時候。
For there fell down many slain, because the war was of God. And they dwelt in their steads until the captivity.

5:23    瑪拿西半支派的人住在那地。從巴珊延到巴力黑們，示尼珥與黑門山。
And the children of the half tribe of Manasseh dwelt in the land: they increased from Bashan unto Baalhermon and Senir, and unto mount Hermon.

5:24    他們的族長是以弗，以示，以列，亞斯列，耶利米，何達威雅，雅疊，都是大能的勇士，是有名的人，也是作族長的。
And these were the heads of the house of their fathers, even Epher, and Ishi, and Eliel, and Azriel, and Jeremiah, and Hodaviah, and Jahdiel, mighty men of valour, famous men, and heads of the house of their fathers.

5:25    他們得罪了他們列祖的神，隨從那地之民的神行邪淫。這民就是神在他們面前所除滅的。
And they transgressed against the God of their fathers, and went a whoring after the gods of the people of the land, whom God destroyed before them.

5:26    故此，以色列的神激動亞述王普勒和亞述王提革拉毗尼色的心，他們就把呂便人，迦得人，瑪拿西半支派的人擄到哈臘，哈博，哈拉與歌散河邊，直到今日還在那裡。
And the God of Israel stirred up the spirit of Pul king of Assyria, and the spirit of Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria, and he carried them away, even the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, and brought them unto Halah, and Habor, and Hara, and to the river Gozan, unto this day.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


6:1    利未的兒子是革順，哥轄，米拉利。
The sons of Levi; Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

6:2    歌轄的兒子是暗蘭，以斯哈，希伯倫，烏薛。
And the sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.

6:3    暗蘭的兒子是亞倫，摩西，還有女兒米利暗。亞倫的兒子是拿答，亞比戶，以利亞撒，以他瑪。
And the children of Amram; Aaron, and Moses, and Miriam. The sons also of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

6:4    以利亞撒生非尼哈。非尼哈生亞比書。
Eleazar begat Phinehas, Phinehas begat Abishua,

6:5    亞比書生布基。布基生烏西。
And Abishua begat Bukki, and Bukki begat Uzzi,

6:6    烏西生西拉希雅。西拉希雅生米拉約。
And Uzzi begat Zerahiah, and Zerahiah begat Meraioth,

6:7    米拉約生亞瑪利雅。亞瑪利雅生亞希突。
Meraioth begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,

6:8    亞希突生撒督。撒督生亞希瑪斯。
And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Ahimaaz,

6:9    亞希瑪斯生亞撒利雅。亞撒利雅生約哈難。
And Ahimaaz begat Azariah, and Azariah begat Johanan,

6:10    約哈難生亞撒利雅（這亞撒利雅在所羅門於耶路撒冷所建造的殿中，供祭司的職分）。
And Johanan begat Azariah, (he it is that executed the priest's office in the temple that Solomon built in Jerusalem:)

6:11    亞撒利雅生亞瑪利雅。亞瑪利雅生亞希突。
And Azariah begat Amariah, and Amariah begat Ahitub,

6:12    亞希突生撒督。撒督生沙龍。
And Ahitub begat Zadok, and Zadok begat Shallum,

6:13    沙龍生希勒家。希勒家生亞撒利雅。
And Shallum begat Hilkiah, and Hilkiah begat Azariah,

6:14    亞撒利雅生西萊雅。西萊雅生約薩答。
And Azariah begat Seraiah, and Seraiah begat Jehozadak,

6:15    當耶和華藉尼布甲尼撒的手擄掠猶大和耶路撒冷人的時候，這約薩答也被擄去。
And Jehozadak went into captivity, when the LORD carried away Judah and Jerusalem by the hand of Nebuchadnezzar.

6:16    利未的兒子是革順，哥轄，米拉利。
The sons of Levi; Gershom, Kohath, and Merari.

6:17    革順的兒子名叫立尼，示每。
And these be the names of the sons of Gershom; Libni, and Shimei.

6:18    哥轄的兒子是暗蘭，以斯哈，希伯倫，烏薛。
And the sons of Kohath were, Amram, and Izhar, and Hebron, and Uzziel.

6:19    米拉利的兒子是抹利，母示。這是按著利未人宗族分的各家。
The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. And these are the families of the Levites according to their fathers.

6:20    革順的兒子是立尼。立尼的兒子是雅哈。雅哈的兒子是薪瑪。
Of Gershom; Libni his son, Jahath his son, Zimmah his son,

6:21    薪瑪的兒子是約亞。約亞的兒子是易多。易多的兒子是謝拉。謝拉的兒子是耶特賴。
Joah his son, Iddo his son, Zerah his son, Jeaterai his son.

6:22    哥轄的兒子是亞米拿達。亞米拿達的兒子是可拉。可拉的兒子是亞惜。
The sons of Kohath; Amminadab his son, Korah his son, Assir his son,

6:23    亞惜的兒子是以利加拿。以利加拿的兒子是以比雅撒。以比雅撒的兒子是亞惜。
Elkanah his son, and Ebiasaph his son, and Assir his son,

6:24    亞惜的兒子是他哈。他哈的兒子是烏列。烏列的兒子是烏西雅。烏西雅的兒子是少羅。
Tahath his son, Uriel his son, Uzziah his son, and Shaul his son.

6:25    以利加拿的兒子是亞瑪賽和亞希摩。
And the sons of Elkanah; Amasai, and Ahimoth.

6:26    亞希摩的兒子是以利加拿。以利加拿的兒子是瑣菲。瑣菲的兒子是拿哈。
As for Elkanah: the sons of Elkanah; Zophai his son, and Nahath his son,

6:27    拿哈的兒子是以利押。以利押的兒子是耶羅罕。耶羅罕的兒子是以利加拿。以利加拿的兒子是撒母耳。
Eliab his son, Jeroham his son, Elkanah his son.

6:28    撒母耳的長子是約珥，次子是亞比亞。
And the sons of Samuel; the firstborn Vashni, and Abiah.

6:29    米拉利的兒子是抹利。抹利的兒子是立尼。立尼的兒子是示每。示每的兒子是烏撒。
The sons of Merari; Mahli, Libni his son, Shimei his son, Uzza his son,

6:30    烏撒的兒子是示米亞。示米亞的兒子是哈基雅。哈基雅的兒子是亞帥雅。
Shimea his son, Haggiah his son, Asaiah his son.

6:31    約櫃安設之後，大衛派人在耶和華殿中管理歌唱的事。
And these are they whom David set over the service of song in the house of the LORD, after that the ark had rest.

6:32    他們就在會幕前當歌唱的差，及至所羅門在耶路撒冷建造了耶和華的殿，他們便按著班次供職。
And they ministered before the dwelling place of the tabernacle of the congregation with singing, until Solomon had built the house of the LORD in Jerusalem: and then they waited on their office according to their order.

6:33    供職的人和他們的子孫記在下面，哥轄的子孫中有歌唱的希幔。希幔是約珥的兒子。約珥是撒母耳的兒子。
And these are they that waited with their children. Of the sons of the Kohathites: Heman a singer, the son of Joel, the son of Shemuel,

6:34    撒母耳是以利加拿的兒子。以利加拿是耶羅罕的兒子。耶羅罕是以列的兒子。以列是陀亞的兒子。
The son of Elkanah, the son of Jeroham, the son of Eliel, the son of Toah,

6:35    陀亞是蘇弗的兒子。蘇弗是以利加拿的兒子。以利加拿是瑪哈的兒子。瑪哈是亞瑪賽的兒子。
The son of Zuph, the son of Elkanah, the son of Mahath, the son of Amasai,

6:36    亞瑪賽是以利加拿的兒子。以利加拿是約珥的兒子。約珥是亞撒利雅的兒子。亞撒利雅是西番雅的兒子。
The son of Elkanah, the son of Joel, the son of Azariah, the son of Zephaniah,

6:37    西番雅是他哈的兒子。他哈是亞惜的兒子。亞惜是以比雅撒的兒子。以比雅撒是可拉的兒子。
The son of Tahath, the son of Assir, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah,

6:38    可拉是以斯哈的兒子。以斯哈是哥轄的兒子。哥轄是利未的兒子。利未是以色列的兒子。
The son of Izhar, the son of Kohath, the son of Levi, the son of Israel.

6:39    希幔的族兄亞薩是比利家的兒子，亞薩在希幔右邊供職。比利家是示米亞的兒子。
And his brother Asaph, who stood on his right hand, even Asaph the son of Berachiah, the son of Shimea,

6:40    示米亞是米迦勒的兒子。米迦勒是巴西雅的兒子。巴西雅是瑪基雅的兒子。
The son of Michael, the son of Baaseiah, the son of Malchiah,

6:41    瑪基雅是伊特尼的兒子。伊特尼是謝拉的兒子。謝拉是亞大雅的兒子。
The son of Ethni, the son of Zerah, the son of Adaiah,

6:42    亞大雅是以探的兒子。以探是薪瑪的兒子。薪瑪是示每的兒子。
The son of Ethan, the son of Zimmah, the son of Shimei,

6:43    示每是雅哈的兒子。雅哈是革順的兒子。革順是利未的兒子。
The son of Jahath, the son of Gershom, the son of Levi.

6:44    他們的族弟兄米拉利的子孫，在他們左邊供職的有以探。以探是基示的兒子。基示是亞伯底的兒子。亞伯底是瑪鹿的兒子。
And their brethren the sons of Merari stood on the left hand: Ethan the son of Kishi, the son of Abdi, the son of Malluch,



6:45    瑪鹿是哈沙比雅的兒子。哈沙比雅是亞瑪謝的兒子。亞瑪謝是希勒家的兒子。
The son of Hashabiah, the son of Amaziah, the son of Hilkiah,

6:46    希勒家是暗西的兒子。暗西是巴尼的兒子。巴尼是沙麥的兒子。
The son of Amzi, the son of Bani, the son of Shamer,

6:47    沙麥是末力的兒子。末力是母示的兒子。母示是米拉利的兒子。米拉利是利未的兒子。
The son of Mahli, the son of Mushi, the son of Merari, the son of Levi.

6:48    他們的族弟兄利未人也被派辦神殿中的一切事。
Their brethren also the Levites were appointed unto all manner of service of the tabernacle of the house of God.

6:49    亞倫和他的子孫在燔祭壇和香壇上獻祭燒香，又在至聖所辦理一切的事，為以色列人贖罪，是照神僕人摩西所吩咐的。
But Aaron and his sons offered upon the altar of the burnt offering, and on the altar of incense, and were appointed for all the work of the place most holy, and to make an atonement for Israel, according to all that Moses the servant of God had commanded.

6:50    亞倫的兒子是以利亞撒。以利亞撒的兒子是非尼哈。非尼哈的兒子是亞比書。
And these are the sons of Aaron; Eleazar his son, Phinehas his son, Abishua his son,

6:51    亞比書的兒子是布基。布基的兒子是烏西。烏西的兒子是西拉希雅。
Bukki his son, Uzzi his son, Zerahiah his son,



6:52    西拉希雅的兒子是米拉約。米拉約的兒子是亞瑪利雅。亞瑪利雅的兒子是亞希突。
Meraioth his son, Amariah his son, Ahitub his son,

6:53    亞希突的兒子是撒督。撒督的兒子是亞希瑪斯。
Zadok his son, Ahimaaz his son.

6:54    他們的住處按著境內的營寨，記在下面。哥轄族亞倫的子孫先拈鬮得地，
Now these are their dwelling places throughout their castles in their coasts, of the sons of Aaron, of the families of the Kohathites: for theirs was the lot.

6:55    在猶大地中得了希伯侖和四圍的郊野。
And they gave them Hebron in the land of Judah, and the suburbs thereof round about it.

6:56    只是屬城的田地和村莊都為耶孚尼的兒子迦勒所得。
But the fields of the city, and the villages thereof, they gave to Caleb the son of Jephunneh.

6:57    亞倫的子孫得了逃城希伯侖，又得了立拿與其郊野，雅提珥，以實提莫與其郊野。
And to the sons of Aaron they gave the cities of Judah, namely, Hebron, the city of refuge, and Libnah with her suburbs, and Jattir, and Eshtemoa, with their suburbs,

6:58    希侖與其郊野，底璧與其郊野，
And Hilen with her suburbs, Debir with her suburbs,

6:59    亞珊與其郊野，伯示麥與其郊野。
And Ashan with her suburbs, and Bethshemesh with her suburbs:

6:60    在便雅憫支派的地中，得了迦巴與其郊野，阿勒篾與其郊野，亞拿突與其郊野。他們諸家所得的城共十三座。
And out of the tribe of Benjamin; Geba with her suburbs, and Alemeth with her suburbs, and Anathoth with her suburbs. All their cities throughout their families were thirteen cities.

6:61    哥轄族其餘的人又拈鬮，在瑪拿西半支派的地中得了十座城。
And unto the sons of Kohath, which were left of the family of that tribe, were cities given out of the half tribe, namely, out of the half tribe of Manasseh, by lot, ten cities.

6:62    革順族按著宗族，在以薩迦支派的地中，亞設支派的地中，拿弗他利支派的地中，巴珊內瑪拿西支派的地中，得了十三座城。
And to the sons of Gershom throughout their families out of the tribe of Issachar, and out of the tribe of Asher, and out of the tribe of Naphtali, and out of the tribe of Manasseh in Bashan, thirteen cities.

6:63    米拉利族按著宗族拈鬮，在流便支派的地中，迦得支派的地中，西布倫支派的地中，得了十二座城。
Unto the sons of Merari were given by lot, throughout their families, out of the tribe of Reuben, and out of the tribe of Gad, and out of the tribe of Zebulun, twelve cities.

6:64    以色列人將這些城與其郊野給了利未人。
And the children of Israel gave to the Levites these cities with their suburbs.

6:65    這以上錄名的城，在猶大，西緬，便雅憫三支派的地中，以色列人拈鬮給了他們。
And they gave by lot out of the tribe of the children of Judah, and out of the tribe of the children of Simeon, and out of the tribe of the children of Benjamin, these cities, which are called by their names.

6:66    哥轄族中有幾家在以法蓮支派的地中也得了城邑，
And the residue of the families of the sons of Kohath had cities of their coasts out of the tribe of Ephraim.

6:67    在以法蓮山地得了逃城示劍與其郊野，又得了基色與其郊野，
And they gave unto them, of the cities of refuge, Shechem in mount Ephraim with her suburbs; they gave also Gezer with her suburbs,

6:68    約緬與其郊野，伯和侖與其郊野，
And Jokmeam with her suburbs, and Bethhoron with her suburbs,

6:69    亞雅侖與其郊野，迦特臨門與其郊野。
And Aijalon with her suburbs, and Gathrimmon with her suburbs:

6:70    哥轄族其餘的人在瑪拿西半支派的地中得了亞乃與其郊野，比連與其郊野。
And out of the half tribe of Manasseh; Aner with her suburbs, and Bileam with her suburbs, for the family of the remnant of the sons of Kohath.

6:71    革順族在瑪拿西半支派的地中得了巴珊的哥蘭與其郊野，亞斯他錄與其郊野。
Unto the sons of Gershom were given out of the family of the half tribe of Manasseh, Golan in Bashan with her suburbs, and Ashtaroth with her suburbs:

6:72    又在以薩迦支派的地中得了基低斯與其郊野，大比拉與其郊野，
And out of the tribe of Issachar; Kedesh with her suburbs, Daberath with her suburbs,

6:73    拉末與其郊野，亞年與其郊野。
And Ramoth with her suburbs, and Anem with her suburbs:

6:74    在亞設支派的地中得了瑪沙與其郊野，押頓與其郊野，
And out of the tribe of Asher; Mashal with her suburbs, and Abdon with her suburbs,

6:75    戶割與其郊野，利合與其郊野。
And Hukok with her suburbs, and Rehob with her suburbs:

6:76    在拿弗他利支派的地中得了加利利的基低斯與其郊野，哈們與其郊野，基列亭與其郊野。
And out of the tribe of Naphtali; Kedesh in Galilee with her suburbs, and Hammon with her suburbs, and Kirjathaim with her suburbs.

6:77    還有米拉利族的人在西布倫支派的地中得了臨摩挪與其郊野，他泊與其郊野。
Unto the rest of the children of Merari were given out of the tribe of Zebulun, Rimmon with her suburbs, Tabor with her suburbs:

6:78    又在耶利哥的約旦河東，在流便支派的地中得了曠野的比悉與其郊野，雅哈撒與其郊野，
And on the other side Jordan by Jericho, on the east side of Jordan, were given them out of the tribe of Reuben, Bezer in the wilderness with her suburbs, and Jahzah with her suburbs,

6:79    基底莫與其郊野，米法押與其郊野。
Kedemoth also with her suburbs, and Mephaath with her suburbs:

6:80    又在迦得支派的地中得了基列的拉末與其郊野，瑪哈念與其郊野，
And out of the tribe of Gad; Ramoth in Gilead with her suburbs, and Mahanaim with her suburbs,

6:81    希實本與其郊野，雅謝與其郊野。
And Heshbon with her suburbs, and Jazer with her suburbs.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


7:1    以薩迦的兒子是陀拉，普瓦，雅述（雅述創世記第四十六章十三節作約伯），伸侖，共四人。
Now the sons of Issachar were, Tola, and Puah, Jashub, and Shimrom, four.

7:2    陀拉的兒子是烏西，利法雅，耶勒，雅買，易伯散，示母利，都是陀拉的族長，是大能的勇士。到大衛年間，他們的人數共有二萬二千六百名。
And the sons of Tola; Uzzi, and Rephaiah, and Jeriel, and Jahmai, and Jibsam, and Shemuel, heads of their father's house, to wit, of Tola: they were valiant men of might in their generations; whose number was in the days of David two and twenty thousand and six hundred.

7:3    烏西的兒子是伊斯拉希。伊斯拉希的兒子是米迦勒，俄巴底亞，約珥，伊示雅，共五人，都是族長。
And the sons of Uzzi; Izrahiah: and the sons of Izrahiah; Michael, and Obadiah, and Joel, Ishiah, five: all of them chief men.

7:4    他們所率領的，按著宗族出戰的軍隊，共有三萬六千人，因為他們的妻和子眾多。
And with them, by their generations, after the house of their fathers, were bands of soldiers for war, six and thirty thousand men: for they had many wives and sons.

7:5    他們的族弟兄在以薩迦各族中都是大能的勇士，按著家譜計算共有八萬七千人。
And their brethren among all the families of Issachar were valiant men of might, reckoned in all by their genealogies fourscore and seven thousand.

7:6    便雅憫的兒子是比拉，比結，耶疊，共三人。
The sons of Benjamin; Bela, and Becher, and Jediael, three.

7:7    比拉的兒子是以斯本，烏西，烏薛，耶利摩，以利，共五人，都是族長，是大能的勇士。按著家譜計算，他們的子孫共有二萬二千零三十四人。
And the sons of Bela; Ezbon, and Uzzi, and Uzziel, and Jerimoth, and Iri, five; heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of valour; and were reckoned by their genealogies twenty and two thousand and thirty and four.

7:8    比結的兒子是細米拉，約阿施，以利以謝，以利約乃，暗利，耶利摩，亞比雅，亞拿突，亞拉篾。這都是比結的兒子。
And the sons of Becher; Zemira, and Joash, and Eliezer, and Elioenai, and Omri, and Jerimoth, and Abiah, and Anathoth, and Alameth. All these are the sons of Becher.

7:9    他們都是族長，是大能的勇士。按著家譜計算，他們的子孫共有二萬零二百人。
And the number of them, after their genealogy by their generations, heads of the house of their fathers, mighty men of valour, was twenty thousand and two hundred.

7:10    耶疊的兒子是比勒罕。比勒罕的兒子是耶烏施，便雅憫，以忽，基拿拿，細坦，他施，亞希沙哈。
The sons also of Jediael; Bilhan: and the sons of Bilhan; Jeush, and Benjamin, and Ehud, and Chenaanah, and Zethan, and Tharshish, and Ahishahar.

7:11    這都是耶疊的兒子，都是族長，是大能的勇士。他們的子孫能上陣打仗的，共有一萬七千二百人。
All these the sons of Jediael, by the heads of their fathers, mighty men of valour, were seventeen thousand and two hundred soldiers, fit to go out for war and battle.

7:12    還有以珥的兒子書品，戶品，並亞黑的兒子戶伸。
Shuppim also, and Huppim, the children of Ir, and Hushim, the sons of Aher.

7:13    拿弗他利的兒子是雅薛，沽尼，耶色，沙龍。這都是闢拉的子孫。
The sons of Naphtali; Jahziel, and Guni, and Jezer, and Shallum, the sons of Bilhah.

7:14    瑪拿西的兒子亞斯列是他妾亞蘭人所生的，又生了基列之父瑪吉。
The sons of Manasseh; Ashriel, whom she bare: (but his concubine the Aramitess bare Machir the father of Gilead:

7:15    瑪吉娶的妻是戶品，書品的妹子，名叫瑪迦。瑪拿西的次子名叫西羅非哈。西羅非哈但有幾個女兒。
And Machir took to wife the sister of Huppim and Shuppim, whose sister's name was Maachah;) and the name of the second was Zelophehad: and Zelophehad had daughters.

7:16    瑪吉的妻瑪迦生了一個兒子，起名叫毗利施。毗利施的兄弟名叫示利施。示利施的兒子是烏蘭和利金。
And Maachah the wife of Machir bare a son, and she called his name Peresh; and the name of his brother was Sheresh; and his sons were Ulam and Rakem.

7:17    烏蘭的兒子是比但。這都是基列的子孫。基列是瑪吉的兒子，瑪吉是瑪拿西的兒子。
And the sons of Ulam; Bedan. These were the sons of Gilead, the son of Machir, the son of Manasseh.

7:18    基列的妹子哈摩利吉生了伊施荷，亞比以謝，瑪拉。
And his sister Hammoleketh bare Ishod, and Abiezer, and Mahalah.

7:19    示米大的兒子是亞現，示劍，利克希，阿尼安。
And the sons of Shemidah were, Ahian, and Shechem, and Likhi, and Aniam.

7:20    以法蓮的兒子是書提拉。書提拉的兒子是比列。比列的兒子是他哈。他哈的兒子是以拉大。以拉大的兒子是他哈。
And the sons of Ephraim; Shuthelah, and Bered his son, and Tahath his son, and Eladah his son, and Tahath his son,

7:21    他哈的兒子是撒拔。撒拔的兒子是書提拉。以法蓮又生以謝，以列。這二人因為下去奪取迦特人的牲畜，被本地的迦特人殺了。
And Zabad his son, and Shuthelah his son, and Ezer, and Elead, whom the men of Gath that were born in that land slew, because they came down to take away their cattle.

7:22    他們的父親以法蓮為他們悲哀了多日，他的弟兄都來安慰他。
And Ephraim their father mourned many days, and his brethren came to comfort him.

7:23    以法蓮與妻同房，他妻就懷孕生了一子，以法蓮因為家裡遭禍，就給這兒子起名叫比利亞。
And when he went in to his wife, she conceived, and bare a son, and he called his name Beriah, because it went evil with his house.

7:24    他的女兒名叫舍伊拉，就是建築上伯和侖，下伯和侖與烏羨舍伊拉的。
(And his daughter was Sherah, who built Bethhoron the nether, and the upper, and Uzzensherah.)

7:25    比利阿的兒子是利法和利悉。利悉的兒子是他拉。他拉的兒子是他罕。
And Rephah was his son, also Resheph, and Telah his son, and Tahan his son,

7:26    他罕的兒子是拉但。拉但的兒子是亞米忽。亞米忽的兒子是以利沙瑪。
Laadan his son, Ammihud his son, Elishama his son,

7:27    以利沙瑪的兒子是嫩。嫩的兒子是約書亞。
Non his son, Jehoshuah his son,

7:28    以法蓮人的地業和住處是伯特利與其村莊。東邊拿蘭，西邊基色與其村莊。示劍與其村莊，直到迦薩與其村莊。
And their possessions and habitations were, Bethel and the towns thereof, and eastward Naaran, and westward Gezer, with the towns thereof; Shechem also and the towns thereof, unto Gaza and the towns thereof:

7:29    還有靠近瑪拿西人的境界，伯善與其村莊。他納與其村莊。米吉多與其村莊。多珥與其村莊。以色列兒子約瑟的子孫住在這些地方。
And by the borders of the children of Manasseh, Bethshean and her towns, Taanach and her towns, Megiddo and her towns, Dor and her towns. In these dwelt the children of Joseph the son of Israel.

7:30    亞設的兒子是音拿，亦施瓦，亦施韋，比利亞，還有他們的妹子西拉。
The sons of Asher; Imnah, and Isuah, and Ishuai, and Beriah, and Serah their sister.

7:31    比利亞的兒子是希別，瑪結。瑪結是比撒威的父親。
And the sons of Beriah; Heber, and Malchiel, who is the father of Birzavith.

7:32    希別生雅弗勒，朔默，何坦，和他們的妹子書雅。
And Heber begat Japhlet, and Shomer, and Hotham, and Shua their sister.

7:33    雅弗勒的兒子是巴薩，賓哈，亞施法。這都是雅弗勒的兒子。
And the sons of Japhlet; Pasach, and Bimhal, and Ashvath. These are the children of Japhlet.

7:34    朔默的兒子是亞希，羅迦，耶戶巴，亞蘭。
And the sons of Shamer; Ahi, and Rohgah, Jehubbah, and Aram.

7:35    朔默兄弟希連的兒子是瑣法，音那，示利斯，亞抹。
And the sons of his brother Helem; Zophah, and Imna, and Shelesh, and Amal.

7:36    瑣法的兒子是書亞，哈尼弗，書阿勒，比利，音拉，
The sons of Zophah; Suah, and Harnepher, and Shual, and Beri, and Imrah,

7:37    比悉，河得，珊瑪，施沙，益蘭，比拉。
Bezer, and Hod, and Shamma, and Shilshah, and Ithran, and Beera.

7:38    益帖的兒子是耶孚尼，毗斯巴，亞拉。
And the sons of Jether; Jephunneh, and Pispah, and Ara.

7:39    烏拉的兒子是亞拉，漢尼業，利寫。
And the sons of Ulla; Arah, and Haniel, and Rezia.

7:40    這都是亞設的子孫，都是族長，是精壯大能的勇士，也是首領中的頭目，按著家譜計算，他們的子孫能出戰的共有二萬六千人。
All these were the children of Asher, heads of their father's house, choice and mighty men of valour, chief of the princes. And the number throughout the genealogy of them that were apt to the war and to battle was twenty and six thousand men.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


8:1    便雅憫的長子比拉，次子亞實別，三子亞哈拉，
Now Benjamin begat Bela his firstborn, Ashbel the second, and Aharah the third,

8:2    四子挪哈，五子拉法。
Nohah the fourth, and Rapha the fifth.

8:3    比拉的兒子是亞大，基拉，亞比忽，
And the sons of Bela were, Addar, and Gera, and Abihud,

8:4    亞比書，乃幔，亞何亞，
And Abishua, and Naaman, and Ahoah,

8:5    基拉，示孚汛，戶蘭。
And Gera, and Shephuphan, and Huram.

8:6    以忽的兒子作迦巴居民的族長，被擄到瑪拿轄。
And these are the sons of Ehud: these are the heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Geba, and they removed them to Manahath:

8:7    以忽的兒子乃幔，亞希亞，基拉也被擄去。基拉生烏撒，亞希忽。
And Naaman, and Ahiah, and Gera, he removed them, and begat Uzza, and Ahihud.

8:8    沙哈連休他二妻戶伸和巴拉之後，在摩押地生了兒子。
And Shaharaim begat children in the country of Moab, after he had sent them away; Hushim and Baara were his wives.

8:9    他與妻賀得同房，生了約巴，洗比雅，米沙，瑪拉幹，
And he begat of Hodesh his wife, Jobab, and Zibia, and Mesha, and Malcham,

8:10    耶烏斯，沙迦，米瑪。他這些兒子都是族長。
And Jeuz, and Shachia, and Mirma. These were his sons, heads of the fathers.

8:11    他的妻戶伸給他生的兒子有亞比突，以利巴力。
And of Hushim he begat Abitub, and Elpaal.

8:12    以利巴力的兒子是希伯，米珊，沙麥。沙麥建立阿挪和羅德二城與其村莊。
The sons of Elpaal; Eber, and Misham, and Shamed, who built Ono, and Lod, with the towns thereof:

8:13    又有比利亞和示瑪是亞雅侖居民的族長，是驅逐迦特人的。
Beriah also, and Shema, who were heads of the fathers of the inhabitants of Aijalon, who drove away the inhabitants of Gath:

8:14    亞希約，沙煞，耶利末，
And Ahio, Shashak, and Jeremoth,

8:15    西巴第雅，亞拉得，亞得，
And Zebadiah, and Arad, and Ader,

8:16    米迦勒，伊施巴，約哈都是比利亞的兒子。
And Michael, and Ispah, and Joha, the sons of Beriah;

8:17    西巴第雅，米書蘭，希西基，希伯，
And Zebadiah, and Meshullam, and Hezeki, and Heber,

8:18    伊施米萊，伊斯利亞，約巴都是以利巴力的兒子。
Ishmerai also, and Jezliah, and Jobab, the sons of Elpaal;

8:19    雅金，細基利，撒底，
And Jakim, and Zichri, and Zabdi,

8:20    以利乃，洗勒太，以列，
And Elienai, and Zilthai, and Eliel,

8:21    亞大雅，比拉雅，申拉都是示每的兒子。
And Adaiah, and Beraiah, and Shimrath, the sons of Shimhi;

8:22    伊施班，希伯，以列，
And Ishpan, and Heber, and Eliel,

8:23    亞伯頓，細基利，哈難，
And Abdon, and Zichri, and Hanan,

8:24    哈拿尼雅，以攔，安陀提雅，
And Hananiah, and Elam, and Antothijah,

8:25    伊弗底雅，毗努伊勒都是沙煞的兒子。
And Iphedeiah, and Penuel, the sons of Shashak;

8:26    珊示萊，示哈利，亞他利雅，
And Shamsherai, and Shehariah, and Athaliah,

8:27    雅利西，以利亞，細基利都是耶羅罕的兒子。
And Jaresiah, and Eliah, and Zichri, the sons of Jeroham.

8:28    這些人都是著名的族長，住在耶路撒冷。
These were heads of the fathers, by their generations, chief men. These dwelt in Jerusalem.

8:29    在基遍住的有基遍的父親耶利。他的妻名叫瑪迦。
And at Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon; whose wife's name was Maachah:

8:30    他長子是亞伯頓。他又生蘇珥，基士，巴力，拿答，
And his firstborn son Abdon, and Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Nadab,

8:31    基多，亞希約，撒迦，米基羅。
And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zacher.

8:32    米基羅生示米暗。這些人和他們的弟兄在耶路撒冷對面居住。
And Mikloth begat Shimeah. And these also dwelt with their brethren in Jerusalem, over against them.

8:33    尼珥生基士。基士生掃羅。掃羅生約拿單，麥基舒亞，亞比拿達，伊施巴力。
And Ner begat Kish, and Kish begat Saul, and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

8:34    約拿單的兒子是米力巴力（米力巴力撒母耳下四章四節作米非波設）。米力巴力生米迦。
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal; and Meribbaal begat Micah.

8:35    米迦的兒子是毗敦，米勒，他利亞，亞哈斯。
And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tarea, and Ahaz.

8:36    亞哈斯生耶何阿達。耶何阿達生亞拉篾，亞斯瑪威，心利。心利生摩撒。
And Ahaz begat Jehoadah; and Jehoadah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza,

8:37    摩撒生比尼亞。比尼亞的兒子是拉法。拉法的兒子是以利亞薩。以利亞薩的兒子是亞悉。
And Moza begat Binea: Rapha was his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son:

8:38    亞悉有六個兒子，他們的名字是亞斯利幹，波基路，以實瑪利，示亞利雅，俄巴底雅，哈難。這都是亞悉的兒子。
And Azel had six sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan. All these were the sons of Azel.

8:39    亞悉兄弟以設的長子是烏蘭，次子耶烏施，三子是以利法列。
And the sons of Eshek his brother were, Ulam his firstborn, Jehush the second, and Eliphelet the third.

8:40    烏蘭的兒子都是大能的勇士，是弓箭手，他們有許多的子孫，共一百五十名，都是便雅憫人。
And the sons of Ulam were mighty men of valour, archers, and had many sons, and sons' sons, an hundred and fifty. All these are of the sons of Benjamin.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


9:1    以色列人都按家譜計算，寫在以色列諸王記上。猶大人因犯罪就被擄到巴比倫。
So all Israel were reckoned by genealogies; and, behold, they were written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah, who were carried away to Babylon for their transgression.

9:2    先從巴比倫回來，住在自己地業城邑中的有以色列人，祭司，利未人，尼提寧的首領。
Now the first inhabitants that dwelt in their possessions in their cities were, the Israelites, the priests, Levites, and the Nethinims.

9:3    住在耶路撒冷的有猶大人，便雅憫人，以法蓮人，瑪拿西人。
And in Jerusalem dwelt of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin, and of the children of Ephraim, and Manasseh;

9:4    猶大兒子法勒斯的子孫中有烏太。烏太是亞米忽的兒子。亞米忽是暗利的兒子。暗利是音利的兒子。音利是巴尼的兒子。
Uthai the son of Ammihud, the son of Omri, the son of Imri, the son of Bani, of the children of Pharez the son of Judah.

9:5    示羅的子孫中有長子亞帥雅和他的眾子。
And of the Shilonites; Asaiah the firstborn, and his sons.

9:6    謝拉的子孫中有耶烏利和他的弟兄，共六百九十人。
And of the sons of Zerah; Jeuel, and their brethren, six hundred and ninety.

9:7    便雅憫人中有哈西努的曾孫，何達威雅的孫子，米書蘭的兒子撒路，
And of the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Hodaviah, the son of Hasenuah,

9:8    又有耶羅罕的兒子伊比尼雅，米基立的孫子，烏西的兒子以拉，伊比尼雅的曾孫，流珥的孫子，示法提雅的兒子米書蘭，
And Ibneiah the son of Jeroham, and Elah the son of Uzzi, the son of Michri, and Meshullam the son of Shephathiah, the son of Reuel, the son of Ibnijah;

9:9    和他們的族弟兄，按著家譜計算共有九百五十六名。這些人都是他們的族長。
And their brethren, according to their generations, nine hundred and fifty and six. All these men were chief of the fathers in the house of their fathers.

9:10    祭司中有耶大雅，耶何雅立，雅斤，
And of the priests; Jedaiah, and Jehoiarib, and Jachin,

9:11    還有管理神殿希勒家的兒子亞薩利雅。希勒家是米書蘭的兒子。米書蘭是撒督的兒子。撒督是米拉約的兒子。米拉約是亞希突的兒子。
And Azariah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, the ruler of the house of God;

9:12    有瑪基雅的曾孫，巴施戶珥的孫子，耶羅罕的兒子亞大雅，又有亞第業的兒子瑪賽。亞第業是雅希細拉的兒子。雅希細拉是米書蘭的兒子。米書蘭是米實利密的兒子。米實利密是音麥的兒子。
And Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchijah, and Maasiai the son of Adiel, the son of Jahzerah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Meshillemith, the son of Immer;

9:13    他們和眾弟兄都是族長，共有一千七百六十人，是善於作神殿使用之工的。
And their brethren, heads of the house of their fathers, a thousand and seven hundred and threescore; very able men for the work of the service of the house of God.

9:14    利未人米拉利的子孫中，有哈沙比雅的曾孫，押利甘的孫子，哈述的兒子示瑪雅。
And of the Levites; Shemaiah the son of Hasshub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, of the sons of Merari;

9:15    有拔巴甲，黑勒施，迦拉，並亞薩的曾孫，細基利的孫子，米迦的兒子瑪探雅，
And Bakbakkar, Heresh, and Galal, and Mattaniah the son of Micah, the son of Zichri, the son of Asaph;

9:16    又有耶杜頓的曾孫，迦拉的孫子，示瑪雅的兒子俄巴底，還有以利加拿的孫子，亞撒的兒子比利家。他們都住在尼陀法人的村莊。
And Obadiah the son of Shemaiah, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun, and Berechiah the son of Asa, the son of Elkanah, that dwelt in the villages of the Netophathites.

9:17    守門的是沙龍，亞谷，達們，亞希幔，和他們的弟兄。沙龍為長。
And the porters were, Shallum, and Akkub, and Talmon, and Ahiman, and their brethren: Shallum was the chief;

9:18    從前赦些人看守朝東的王門，如今是利未營中守門的。
Who hitherto waited in the king's gate eastward: they were porters in the companies of the children of Levi.

9:19    可拉的曾孫，以比雅撒的孫子，可利的兒子沙龍，和他的族弟兄可拉人都管理使用之工，並守會幕的門。他們的祖宗曾管理耶和華的營盤，又把守營門。
And Shallum the son of Kore, the son of Ebiasaph, the son of Korah, and his brethren, of the house of his father, the Korahites, were over the work of the service, keepers of the gates of the tabernacle: and their fathers, being over the host of the LORD, were keepers of the entry.

9:20    從前以利亞撒的兒子非尼哈管理他們，耶和華也與他同在。
And Phinehas the son of Eleazar was the ruler over them in time past, and the LORD was with him.

9:21    米施利米雅的兒子撒迦利雅是看守會幕之門的。
And Zechariah the son of Meshelemiah was porter of the door of the tabernacle of the congregation.

9:22    被選守門的人共有二百一十二名。他們在自己的村莊，按著家譜計算，是大衛和先見撒母耳所派當這緊要職任的。
All these which were chosen to be porters in the gates were two hundred and twelve. These were reckoned by their genealogy in their villages, whom David and Samuel the seer did ordain in their set office.

9:23    他們和他們的子孫按著班次看守耶和華殿的門，就是會幕的門。
So they and their children had the oversight of the gates of the house of the LORD, namely, the house of the tabernacle, by wards.

9:24    在東西南北，四方都有守門的。
In four quarters were the porters, toward the east, west, north, and south.

9:25    他們的族弟兄住在村莊，每七日來與他們換班。
And their brethren, which were in their villages, were to come after seven days from time to time with them.

9:26    這四個門領都是利未人，各有緊要的職任，看守神殿的倉庫。
For these Levites, the four chief porters, were in their set office, and were over the chambers and treasuries of the house of God.

9:27    他們住在神殿的四圍，是因委託他們守殿，要每日早晨開門。
And they lodged round about the house of God, because the charge was upon them, and the opening thereof every morning pertained to them.

9:28    利未人中有管理使用器皿的，按著數目拿出拿入。
And certain of them had the charge of the ministering vessels, that they should bring them in and out by tale.

9:29    又有人管理器具和聖所的器皿，並細面，酒，油，乳香，香料。
Some of them also were appointed to oversee the vessels, and all the instruments of the sanctuary, and the fine flour, and the wine, and the oil, and the frankincense, and the spices.

9:30    祭司中有人用香料作膏油。
And some of the sons of the priests made the ointment of the spices.

9:31    利未人瑪他提雅是可拉族沙龍的長子，他緊要的職任是管理盤中烤的物。
And Mattithiah, one of the Levites, who was the firstborn of Shallum the Korahite, had the set office over the things that were made in the pans.

9:32    他們族弟兄哥轄子孫中，有管理陳設餅的，每安息日預備擺列。
And other of their brethren, of the sons of the Kohathites, were over the shewbread, to prepare it every sabbath.

9:33    歌唱的有利未人的族長，住在屬殿的房屋，晝夜供職，不作別樣的工。
And these are the singers, chief of the fathers of the Levites, who remaining in the chambers were free: for they were employed in that work day and night.

9:34    以上都是利未人著名的族長，住在耶路撒冷。
These chief fathers of the Levites were chief throughout their generations; these dwelt at Jerusalem.

9:35    在基遍住的有基遍的父親耶利。他的妻名叫瑪迦。
And in Gibeon dwelt the father of Gibeon, Jehiel, whose wife's name was Maachah,

9:36    他長子是亞伯頓。他又生蘇珥，基士，巴力，尼珥，拿答，
And his firstborn son Abdon, then Zur, and Kish, and Baal, and Ner, and Nadab,

9:37    基多，亞希約，撒迦利雅，米基羅。
And Gedor, and Ahio, and Zechariah, and Mikloth.

9:38    米基羅生示米暗。這些人和他們的弟兄在耶路撒冷對面居住。
And Mikloth begat Shimeam. And they also dwelt with their brethren at Jerusalem, over against their brethren.

9:39    尼珥生基士。基士生掃羅。掃羅生約拿單，麥基舒亞，亞比拿達，伊施巴力。
And Ner begat Kish; and Kish begat Saul; and Saul begat Jonathan, and Malchishua, and Abinadab, and Eshbaal.

9:40    約拿單的兒子是米力巴力（米力巴力即米非波設）。米力巴力生米迦。
And the son of Jonathan was Meribbaal: and Meribbaal begat Micah.

9:41    米迦的兒子是毗敦，米勒，他利亞，亞哈斯。
And the sons of Micah were, Pithon, and Melech, and Tahrea, and Ahaz.

9:42    亞哈斯生雅拉。雅拉生亞拉篾，亞斯瑪威，心利。心利生摩撒。
And Ahaz begat Jarah; and Jarah begat Alemeth, and Azmaveth, and Zimri; and Zimri begat Moza;

9:43    摩撒生比尼亞。比尼亞生利法雅。利法雅的兒子是以利亞薩。以利亞薩的兒子是亞悉。
And Moza begat Binea; and Rephaiah his son, Eleasah his son, Azel his son.

9:44    亞悉有六個兒子，他們的名字是亞斯利幹，波基路，以實瑪利，示亞利雅，俄巴底雅，哈難。這都是亞悉的兒子。
And Azel had six sons, whose names are these, Azrikam, Bocheru, and Ishmael, and Sheariah, and Obadiah, and Hanan: these were the sons of Azel.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


10:1    非利士人與以色列人爭戰，以色列人在非利士人面前逃跑，在基利波山有被殺仆倒的。
Now the Philistines fought against Israel; and the men of Israel fled from before the Philistines, and fell down slain in mount Gilboa.

10:2    非利士人緊追掃羅和他兒子們，就殺了掃羅的兒子約拿單，亞比拿達，麥基舒亞。
And the Philistines followed hard after Saul, and after his sons; and the Philistines slew Jonathan, and Abinadab, and Malchishua, the sons of Saul.

10:3    勢派甚大，掃羅被弓箭手追上，射傷甚重，
And the battle went sore against Saul, and the archers hit him, and he was wounded of the archers.

10:4    就吩咐拿他兵器的人說，你拔出刀來，將我刺死，免得那些未受割禮的人來凌辱我。但拿兵器的人甚懼怕，不肯刺他。
Then said Saul to his armourbearer, Draw thy sword, and thrust me through therewith; lest these uncircumcised come and abuse me. But his armourbearer would not; for he was sore afraid. So Saul took a sword, and fell upon it.

10:5    掃羅就自己伏在刀上死了。拿兵器的人見掃羅已死，也伏在刀上死了。
And when his armourbearer saw that Saul was dead, he fell likewise on the sword, and died.

10:6    這樣，掃羅和他三個兒子，並他的全家都一同死亡。
So Saul died, and his three sons, and all his house died together.

10:7    住平原的以色列眾人見以色列軍兵逃跑，掃羅和他兒子都死了，也就棄城逃跑，非利士人便來住在其中。
And when all the men of Israel that were in the valley saw that they fled, and that Saul and his sons were dead, then they forsook their cities, and fled: and the Philistines came and dwelt in them.

10:8    次日，非利士人來剝那被殺之人的衣服，看見掃羅和他兒子仆倒在基利波山，
And it came to pass on the morrow, when the Philistines came to strip the slain, that they found Saul and his sons fallen in mount Gilboa.

10:9    就剝了他的軍裝，割下他的首級，打發人到（到或作送到）非利士地的四境報信與他們的偶像和眾民，
And when they had stripped him, they took his head, and his armour, and sent into the land of the Philistines round about, to carry tidings unto their idols, and to the people.

10:10    又將掃羅的軍裝放在他們神的廟裡，將他的首級釘在大袞廟中。
And they put his armour in the house of their gods, and fastened his head in the temple of Dagon.

10:11    基列雅比人聽見非利士人向掃羅所行的一切事，
And when all Jabeshgilead heard all that the Philistines had done to Saul,

10:12    他們中間所有的勇士就起身前去，將掃羅和他兒子的屍身送到雅比，將他們的屍骨葬在雅比的橡樹下，就禁食七日。
They arose, all the valiant men, and took away the body of Saul, and the bodies of his sons, and brought them to Jabesh, and buried their bones under the oak in Jabesh, and fasted seven days.

10:13    這樣，掃羅死了。因為他干犯耶和華，沒有遵守耶和華的命。又因他求問交鬼的婦人，
So Saul died for his transgression which he committed against the LORD, even against the word of the LORD, which he kept not, and also for asking counsel of one that had a familiar spirit, to enquire of it;

10:14    沒有求問耶和華，所以耶和華使他被殺，把國歸於耶西的兒子大衛。
And enquired not of the LORD: therefore he slew him, and turned the kingdom unto David the son of Jesse.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


11:1    以色列眾人聚集到希伯侖見大衛，說，我們原是你的骨肉。
Then all Israel gathered themselves to David unto Hebron, saying, Behold, we are thy bone and thy flesh.

11:2    從前掃羅作王的時候，率領以色列人出入的是你。耶和華你的神也曾應許你說，你必牧養我的民以色列，作以色列的君。
And moreover in time past, even when Saul was king, thou wast he that leddest out and broughtest in Israel: and the LORD thy God said unto thee, Thou shalt feed my people Israel, and thou shalt be ruler over my people Israel.

11:3    於是以色列的長老都來到希伯侖見大衛王。大衛在希伯侖耶和華面前與他們立約，他們就膏大衛作以色列的王，是照耶和華藉撒母耳所說的話。
Therefore came all the elders of Israel to the king to Hebron; and David made a covenant with them in Hebron before the LORD; and they anointed David king over Israel, according to the word of the LORD by Samuel.

11:4    大衛和以色列眾人到了耶路撒冷，就是耶布斯。那時耶布斯人住在那裡。
And David and all Israel went to Jerusalem, which is Jebus; where the Jebusites were, the inhabitants of the land.

11:5    耶布斯人對大衛說，你決不能進這地方。然而大衛攻取錫安的保障，就是大衛的城。
And the inhabitants of Jebus said to David, Thou shalt not come hither. Nevertheless David took the castle of Zion, which is the city of David.

11:6    大衛說，誰先攻打耶布斯人，必作首領元帥。洗魯雅的兒子約押先上去，就作了元帥。
And David said, Whosoever smiteth the Jebusites first shall be chief and captain. So Joab the son of Zeruiah went first up, and was chief.

11:7    大衛住在保障裡，所以那保障叫作大衛城。
And David dwelt in the castle; therefore they called it the city of David.

11:8    大衛又從米羅起，四圍建築城牆，其餘的是約押修理。
And he built the city round about, even from Millo round about: and Joab repaired the rest of the city.

11:9    大衛日見強盛，因為萬軍之耶和華與他同在。
So David waxed greater and greater: for the LORD of hosts was with him.

11:10    以下記錄跟隨大衛勇士的首領，就是奮勇幫助他得國，照著耶和華吩咐以色列人的話，與以色列人一同立他作王的。
These also are the chief of the mighty men whom David had, who strengthened themselves with him in his kingdom, and with all Israel, to make him king, according to the word of the LORD concerning Israel.

11:11    大衛勇士的數目記在下面，哈革摩尼的兒子雅朔班，他是軍長的統領，一時舉槍殺了三百人。
And this is the number of the mighty men whom David had; Jashobeam, an Hachmonite, the chief of the captains: he lifted up his spear against three hundred slain by him at one time.

11:12    其次是亞合人犰多的兒子以利亞撒，他是三個勇士裡的一個。
And after him was Eleazar the son of Dodo, the Ahohite, who was one of the three mighties.

11:13    他從前與大衛在巴斯達閔，非利士人聚集要打仗。那裡有一塊長滿大麥的田，眾民就在非利士人面前逃跑。
He was with David at Pasdammim, and there the Philistines were gathered together to battle, where was a parcel of ground full of barley; and the people fled from before the Philistines.

11:14    這勇士便站在那田間擊殺非利士人，救護了那田。耶和華使以色列人大獲全勝。
And they set themselves in the midst of that parcel, and delivered it, and slew the Philistines; and the LORD saved them by a great deliverance.

11:15    三十個勇士中的三個人下到磐石那裡，進了亞杜蘭洞見大衛。非利士的軍隊在利乏音谷安營。
Now three of the thirty captains went down to the rock to David, into the cave of Adullam; and the host of the Philistines encamped in the valley of Rephaim.

11:16    那時大衛在山寨，非利士人的防營在伯利恆。
And David was then in the hold, and the Philistines' garrison was then at Bethlehem.

11:17    大衛渴想，說，甚願有人將伯利恆城門旁井裡的水打來給我喝。
And David longed, and said, Oh that one would give me drink of the water of the well of Bethlehem, that is at the gate!

11:18    這三個勇士就闖過非利士人的營盤，從伯利恆城門旁的井裡打水，拿來奉給大衛。他卻不肯喝，將水奠在耶和華面前，
And the three brake through the host of the Philistines, and drew water out of the well of Bethlehem, that was by the gate, and took it, and brought it to David: but David would not drink of it, but poured it out to the LORD,

11:19    說，我的神阿，這三個人冒死去打水，這水好像他們的血一般，我斷不敢喝。如此，大衛不肯喝。這是三個勇士所作的事。
And said, My God forbid it me, that I should do this thing: shall I drink the blood of these men that have put their lives in jeopardy? for with the jeopardy of their lives they brought it. Therefore he would not drink it. These things did these three mightiest.

11:20    約押的兄弟亞比篩是這三個勇士的首領。他舉槍殺了三百人，就在三個勇士裡得了名。
And Abishai the brother of Joab, he was chief of the three: for lifting up his spear against three hundred, he slew them, and had a name among the three.

11:21    他在這三個勇士裡是最尊貴的，所以作他們的首領。只是不及前三個勇士。
Of the three, he was more honourable than the two; for he was their captain: howbeit he attained not to the first three.

11:22    有甲薛勇士耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅行過大能的事，他殺了摩押人亞利伊勒的兩個兒子，又在下雪的時候下坑裡去殺了一個獅子，
Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, the son of a valiant man of Kabzeel, who had done many acts; he slew two lionlike men of Moab: also he went down and slew a lion in a pit in a snowy day.

11:23    又殺了一個埃及人。埃及人身高五肘，手裡拿著槍，槍桿粗如織布的機軸。比拿雅只拿著棍子下去，從埃及人手裡奪過槍來，用那槍將他刺死。
And he slew an Egyptian, a man of great stature, five cubits high; and in the Egyptian's hand was a spear like a weaver's beam; and he went down to him with a staff, and plucked the spear out of the Egyptian's hand, and slew him with his own spear.

11:24    這是耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅所行的事，就在三個勇士裡得了名。
These things did Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, and had the name among the three mighties.

11:25    他比那三十個勇士都尊貴，只是不及前三個勇士。大衛立他作護衛長。
Behold, he was honourable among the thirty, but attained not to the first three: and David set him over his guard.

11:26    軍中的勇士有約押的兄弟亞撒黑，伯利恆人朵多的兒子伊勒哈難，
Also the valiant men of the armies were, Asahel the brother of Joab, Elhanan the son of Dodo of Bethlehem,

11:27    哈律人沙瑪，比倫人希利斯，
Shammoth the Harorite, Helez the Pelonite,

11:28    提哥亞人益吉的兒子以拉，亞拿突人亞比以謝，
Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite, Abiezer the Antothite,

11:29    戶沙人西比該，亞合人以來，
Sibbecai the Hushathite, Ilai the Ahohite,

11:30    尼陀法人瑪哈萊，尼陀法人巴拿的兒子希立，
Maharai the Netophathite, Heled the son of Baanah the Netophathite,

11:31    便雅憫族基比亞人利拜的兒子以太，比拉頓人比拿雅，
Ithai the son of Ribai of Gibeah, that pertained to the children of Benjamin, Benaiah the Pirathonite,

11:32    迦實溪人戶萊，亞拉巴人亞比，
Hurai of the brooks of Gaash, Abiel the Arbathite,

11:33    巴路米人押斯瑪弗，沙本人以利雅哈巴，
Azmaveth the Baharumite, Eliahba the Shaalbonite,

11:34    基孫人哈深的眾子，哈拉人沙基的兒子約拿單，
The sons of Hashem the Gizonite, Jonathan the son of Shage the Hararite,

11:35    哈拉人沙甲的兒子亞希暗，吾珥的兒子以利法勒，
Ahiam the son of Sacar the Hararite, Eliphal the son of Ur,

11:36    米基拉人希弗，比倫人亞希雅，
Hepher the Mecherathite, Ahijah the Pelonite,

11:37    迦密人希斯羅，伊斯拜的兒子拿萊，
Hezro the Carmelite, Naarai the son of Ezbai,

11:38    拿單的兄弟約珥，哈基利的兒子彌伯哈，
Joel the brother of Nathan, Mibhar the son of Haggeri,

11:39    亞捫人洗勒，比錄人拿哈萊，拿哈萊是給洗魯雅的兒子約押拿兵器的。
Zelek the Ammonite, Naharai the Berothite, the armourbearer of Joab the son of Zeruiah,

11:40    以帖人以拉，以帖人迦立，
Ira the Ithrite, Gareb the Ithrite,

11:41    赫人烏利亞，亞萊的兒子撒拔，
Uriah the Hittite, Zabad the son of Ahlai,

11:42    流便人示撒的兒子亞第拿，他是流便支派中的一個族長，率領三十人。
Adina the son of Shiza the Reubenite, a captain of the Reubenites, and thirty with him,

11:43    瑪迦的兒子哈難，彌特尼人約沙法，
Hanan the son of Maachah, and Joshaphat the Mithnite,

11:44    亞施他拉人烏西亞，亞羅珥人何坦的兒子沙瑪，耶利，
Uzzia the Ashterathite, Shama and Jehiel the sons of Hothan the Aroerite,

11:45    提洗人申利的兒子耶疊和他的兄弟約哈，
Jediael the son of Shimri, and Joha his brother, the Tizite,

11:46    瑪哈未人以利業，伊利拿安的兒子耶利拜，約沙未雅，摩押人伊特瑪，
Eliel the Mahavite, and Jeribai, and Joshaviah, the sons of Elnaam, and Ithmah the Moabite,

11:47    以利業，俄備得，並米瑣八人雅西業。
Eliel, and Obed, and Jasiel the Mesobaite.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


12:1    大衛因怕基士的兒子掃羅，躲在洗革拉的時候，有勇士到他那裡幫助他打仗。
Now these are they that came to David to Ziklag, while he yet kept himself close because of Saul the son of Kish: and they were among the mighty men, helpers of the war.

12:2    他們善於拉弓，能用左右兩手甩石射箭，都是便雅憫人掃羅的族弟兄。
They were armed with bows, and could use both the right hand and the left in hurling stones and shooting arrows out of a bow, even of Saul's brethren of Benjamin.

12:3    為首的是亞希以謝，其次是約阿施，都是基比亞人示瑪的兒子。還有亞斯瑪威的兒子耶薛和毗力，又有比拉迦，並亞拿突人耶戶，
The chief was Ahiezer, then Joash, the sons of Shemaah the Gibeathite; and Jeziel, and Pelet, the sons of Azmaveth; and Berachah, and Jehu the Antothite,

12:4    基遍人以實買雅，他在三十人中是勇士，管理他們，且有耶利米，雅哈悉，約哈難，和基得拉人約撒拔，
And Ismaiah the Gibeonite, a mighty man among the thirty, and over the thirty; and Jeremiah, and Jahaziel, and Johanan, and Josabad the Gederathite,

12:5    伊利烏賽，耶利摩，比亞利雅，示瑪利雅，哈律弗人示法提雅，
Eluzai, and Jerimoth, and Bealiah, and Shemariah, and Shephatiah the Haruphite,

12:6    可拉人以利加拿，耶西亞，亞薩列，約以謝，雅朔班，
Elkanah, and Jesiah, and Azareel, and Joezer, and Jashobeam, the Korhites,

12:7    基多人耶羅罕的兒子猶拉和西巴第雅。
And Joelah, and Zebadiah, the sons of Jeroham of Gedor.

12:8    迦得支派中有人到曠野的山寨投奔大衛，都是大能的勇士，能拿盾牌和槍的戰士。他們的面貌好像獅子，快跑如同山上的鹿。
And of the Gadites there separated themselves unto David into the hold to the wilderness men of might, and men of war fit for the battle, that could handle shield and buckler, whose faces were like the faces of lions, and were as swift as the roes upon the mountains;

12:9    第一以薛，第二俄巴底雅，第三以利押，
Ezer the first, Obadiah the second, Eliab the third,

12:10    第四彌施瑪拿，第五耶利米，
Mishmannah the fourth, Jeremiah the fifth,

12:11    第六亞太，第七以利業，
Attai the sixth, Eliel the seventh,

12:12    第八約哈難，第九以利薩巴，
Johanan the eighth, Elzabad the ninth,

12:13    第十耶利米，第十一末巴奈。
Jeremiah the tenth, Machbanai the eleventh.

12:14    這都是迦得人中的軍長，至小的能抵一百人，至大的能抵一千人。
These were of the sons of Gad, captains of the host: one of the least was over an hundred, and the greatest over a thousand.

12:15    正月，約旦河水漲過兩岸的時候，他們過河，使一切住平原的人東奔西逃。
These are they that went over Jordan in the first month, when it had overflown all his banks; and they put to flight all them of the valleys, both toward the east, and toward the west.

12:16    又有便雅憫和猶大人到山寨大衛那裡。
And there came of the children of Benjamin and Judah to the hold unto David.

12:17    大衛出去迎接他們，對他們說，你們若是和和平平地來幫助我，我心就與你們相契。你們若是將我這無罪的人賣在敵人手裡，願我們列祖的神察看責罰。
And David went out to meet them, and answered and said unto them, If ye be come peaceably unto me to help me, mine heart shall be knit unto you: but if ye be come to betray me to mine enemies, seeing there is no wrong in mine hands, the God of our fathers look thereon, and rebuke it.

12:18    那時神的靈感動那三十個勇士的首領亞瑪撒，他就說，大衛阿，我們是歸於你的。耶西的兒子阿，我們是幫助你的。願你平平安安，願幫助你的也都平安。因為你的神幫助你。大衛就收留他們，立他們作軍長。
Then the spirit came upon Amasai, who was chief of the captains, and he said, Thine are we, David, and on thy side, thou son of Jesse: peace, peace be unto thee, and peace be to thine helpers; for thy God helpeth thee. Then David received them, and made them captains of the band.

12:19    大衛從前與非利士人同去，要與掃羅爭戰，有些瑪拿西人來投奔大衛，他們卻沒有幫助非利士人。因為非利士人的首領商議，打發他們回去，說，恐怕大衛拿我們的首級，歸降他的主人掃羅。
And there fell some of Manasseh to David, when he came with the Philistines against Saul to battle: but they helped them not: for the lords of the Philistines upon advisement sent him away, saying, He will fall to his master Saul to the jeopardy of our heads.

12:20    大衛往洗革拉去的時候，有瑪拿西人的千夫長押拿，約撒拔，耶疊，米迦勒，約撒拔，以利戶，洗勒太都來投奔他。
As he went to Ziklag, there fell to him of Manasseh, Adnah, and Jozabad, and Jediael, and Michael, and Jozabad, and Elihu, and Zilthai, captains of the thousands that were of Manasseh.

12:21    這些人幫助大衛攻擊群賊。他們都是大能的勇士，且作軍長。
And they helped David against the band of the rovers: for they were all mighty men of valour, and were captains in the host.

12:22    那時天天有人來幫助大衛，以致成了大軍，如神的軍一樣。
For at that time day by day there came to David to help him, until it was a great host, like the host of God.

12:23    預備打仗的兵來到希伯侖見大衛，要照著耶和華的話將掃羅的國位歸與大衛。他們的數目如下，
And these are the numbers of the bands that were ready armed to the war, and came to David to Hebron, to turn the kingdom of Saul to him, according to the word of the LORD.

12:24    猶大支派，拿盾牌和槍預備打仗的有六千八百人。
The children of Judah that bare shield and spear were six thousand and eight hundred, ready armed to the war.

12:25    西緬支派，能上陣大能的勇士有七千一百人。
Of the children of Simeon, mighty men of valour for the war, seven thousand and one hundred.

12:26    利未支派有四千六百人。
Of the children of Levi four thousand and six hundred.

12:27    耶何耶大是亞倫家的首領，跟從他的有三千七百人。
And Jehoiada was the leader of the Aaronites, and with him were three thousand and seven hundred;

12:28    還有少年大能的勇士撒督，同著他的有族長二十二人。
And Zadok, a young man mighty of valour, and of his father's house twenty and two captains.

12:29    便雅憫支派，掃羅的族弟兄也有三千人，他們向來大半歸順掃羅家。
And of the children of Benjamin, the kindred of Saul, three thousand: for hitherto the greatest part of them had kept the ward of the house of Saul.

12:30    以法蓮支派大能的勇士，在本族著名的有二萬零八百人。
And of the children of Ephraim twenty thousand and eight hundred, mighty men of valour, famous throughout the house of their fathers.

12:31    瑪拿西半支派，冊上有名的共一萬八千人，都來立大衛作王。
And of the half tribe of Manasseh eighteen thousand, which were expressed by name, to come and make David king.

12:32    以薩迦支派，有二百族長都通達時務，知道以色列人所當行的。他們族弟兄都聽從他們的命令。
And of the children of Issachar, which were men that had understanding of the times, to know what Israel ought to do; the heads of them were two hundred; and all their brethren were at their commandment.

12:33    西布倫支派，能上陣用各樣兵器打仗，行伍整齊，不生二心的有五萬人。
Of Zebulun, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, with all instruments of war, fifty thousand, which could keep rank: they were not of double heart.

12:34    拿弗他利支派，有一千軍長。跟從他們，拿盾牌和槍的有三萬七千人。
And of Naphtali a thousand captains, and with them with shield and spear thirty and seven thousand.

12:35    但支派，能擺陣的有二萬八千六百人。
And of the Danites expert in war twenty and eight thousand and six hundred.

12:36    亞設支派，能上陣打仗的有四萬人。
And of Asher, such as went forth to battle, expert in war, forty thousand.

12:37    約旦河東的流便支派，迦得支派，瑪拿西半支派，拿著各樣兵器打仗的有十二萬人。
And on the other side of Jordan, of the Reubenites, and the Gadites, and of the half tribe of Manasseh, with all manner of instruments of war for the battle, an hundred and twenty thousand.

12:38    以上都是能守行伍的戰士，他們都誠心來到希伯侖，要立大衛作以色列的王。以色列其餘的人也都一心要立大衛作王。
All these men of war, that could keep rank, came with a perfect heart to Hebron, to make David king over all Israel: and all the rest also of Israel were of one heart to make David king.

12:39    他們在那裡三日，與大衛一同吃喝，因為他們的族弟兄給他們預備了。
And there they were with David three days, eating and drinking: for their brethren had prepared for them.

12:40    靠近他們的人以及以薩迦，西布倫，拿弗他利人將許多面餅，無花果餅，乾葡萄，酒，油，用驢，駱駝，騾子，牛馱來，又帶了許多的牛和羊來，因為以色列人甚是歡樂。
Moreover they that were nigh them, even unto Issachar and Zebulun and Naphtali, brought bread on asses, and on camels, and on mules, and on oxen, and meat, meal, cakes of figs, and bunches of raisins, and wine, and oil, and oxen, and sheep abundantly: for there was joy in Israel.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


13:1    大衛與千夫長，百夫長，就是一切首領商議。
And David consulted with the captains of thousands and hundreds, and with every leader.

13:2    大衛對以色列全會眾說，你們若以為美，見這事是出於耶和華我們的神，我們就差遣人走遍以色列地，見我們未來的弟兄，又見住在有郊野之城的祭司利未人，使他們都到這裡來聚集。
And David said unto all the congregation of Israel, If it seem good unto you, and that it be of the LORD our God, let us send abroad unto our brethren every where, that are left in all the land of Israel, and with them also to the priests and Levites which are in their cities and suburbs, that they may gather themselves unto us:

13:3    我們要把神的約櫃運到我們這裡來。因為在掃羅年間，我們沒有在約櫃前求問神。
And let us bring again the ark of our God to us: for we enquired not at it in the days of Saul.

13:4    全會眾都說可以如此行。這事在眾民眼中都看為好。
And all the congregation said that they would do so: for the thing was right in the eyes of all the people.

13:5    於是，大衛將以色列人從埃及的西曷河直到哈馬口都招聚了來，要從基列耶琳將神的約櫃運來。
So David gathered all Israel together, from Shihor of Egypt even unto the entering of Hemath, to bring the ark of God from Kirjathjearim.

13:6    大衛率領以色列眾人上到巴拉，就是屬猶大的基列耶琳，要從那裡將約櫃運來。這約櫃就是坐在二基路伯上耶和華神留名的約櫃。
And David went up, and all Israel, to Baalah, that is, to Kirjathjearim, which belonged to Judah, to bring up thence the ark of God the LORD, that dwelleth between the cherubims, whose name is called on it.

13:7    他們將神的約櫃從亞比拿達的家裡抬出來，放在新車上。烏撒和亞希約趕車。
And they carried the ark of God in a new cart out of the house of Abinadab: and Uzza and Ahio drave the cart.

13:8    大衛和以色列眾人在神前用琴，瑟，鑼，鼓，號作樂，極力跳舞歌唱。
And David and all Israel played before God with all their might, and with singing, and with harps, and with psalteries, and with timbrels, and with cymbals, and with trumpets.

13:9    到了基頓（基頓撒母耳下六章六節作拿艮）的禾場。因為牛失前蹄（或作驚跳），烏撒就伸手扶住約櫃。
And when they came unto the threshingfloor of Chidon, Uzza put forth his hand to hold the ark; for the oxen stumbled.

13:10    耶和華向他發怒，因他伸手扶住約櫃擊殺他，他就死在神面前。
And the anger of the LORD was kindled against Uzza, and he smote him, because he put his hand to the ark: and there he died before God.

13:11    大衛因耶和華擊殺（原文作闖殺）烏撒，心裡愁煩，就稱那地方為毗列斯烏撒，直到今日。
And David was displeased, because the LORD had made a breach upon Uzza: wherefore that place is called Perezuzza to this day.

13:12    那日，大衛懼怕神，說，神的約櫃怎可運到我這裡來。
And David was afraid of God that day, saying, How shall I bring the ark of God home to me?

13:13    於是大衛不將約櫃運進大衛的城，卻運到迦特人俄別以東的家中。
So David brought not the ark home to himself to the city of David, but carried it aside into the house of Obededom the Gittite.

13:14    神的約櫃在俄別以東家中三個月，耶和華賜福給俄別以東的家和他一切所有的。
And the ark of God remained with the family of Obededom in his house three months. And the LORD blessed the house of Obededom, and all that he had.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


14:1    推羅王希蘭將香柏木運到大衛那裡，又差遣使者和石匠，木匠給大衛建造宮殿。
Now Hiram king of Tyre sent messengers to David, and timber of cedars, with masons and carpenters, to build him an house.

14:2    大衛就知道耶和華堅立他作以色列王，又為自己的民以色列，使他的國興旺。
And David perceived that the LORD had confirmed him king over Israel, for his kingdom was lifted up on high, because of his people Israel.

14:3    大衛在耶路撒冷又立后妃，又生兒女。
And David took more wives at Jerusalem: and David begat more sons and daughters.

14:4    在耶路撒冷所生的眾子是沙母亞，朔吧，拿單，所羅門，
Now these are the names of his children which he had in Jerusalem; Shammua, and Shobab, Nathan, and Solomon,

14:5    益轄，以利書亞，以法列，
And Ibhar, and Elishua, and Elpalet,

14:6    挪迦，尼斐，雅非亞，
And Nogah, and Nepheg, and Japhia,

14:7    以利沙瑪，比利雅大，以利法列。
And Elishama, and Beeliada, and Eliphalet.

14:8    非利士人聽見大衛受膏作以色列眾人的王，非利士眾人就上來尋索大衛。大衛聽見，就出去迎敵。
And when the Philistines heard that David was anointed king over all Israel, all the Philistines went up to seek David. And David heard of it, and went out against them.

14:9    非利士人來了，佈散在利乏音谷。
And the Philistines came and spread themselves in the valley of Rephaim.

14:10    大衛求問神，說，我可以上去攻打非利士人嗎。你將他們交在我手裡嗎。耶和華說，你可以上去，我必將他們交在你手裡。
And David enquired of God, saying, Shall I go up against the Philistines? And wilt thou deliver them into mine hand? And the LORD said unto him, Go up; for I will deliver them into thine hand.



14:11    非利士人來到巴力毗拉心，大衛在那裡殺敗他們。大衛說，神藉我的手衝破敵人，如同水衝去一般。因此稱那地方為巴力毗拉心。
So they came up to Baalperazim; and David smote them there. Then David said, God hath broken in upon mine enemies by mine hand like the breaking forth of waters: therefore they called the name of that place Baalperazim.

14:12    非利士人將神像撇在那裡，大衛吩咐人用火焚燒了。
And when they had left their gods there, David gave a commandment, and they were burned with fire.

14:13    非利士人又佈散在利乏音谷。
And the Philistines yet again spread themselves abroad in the valley.

14:14    大衛又求問神。神說，不要一直地上去，要轉到他們後頭，從桑林對面攻打他們。
Therefore David enquired again of God; and God said unto him, Go not up after them; turn away from them, and come upon them over against the mulberry trees.

14:15    你聽見桑樹梢上有腳步的聲音，就要出戰，因為神已經在你前頭去攻打非利士人的軍隊。
And it shall be, when thou shalt hear a sound of going in the tops of the mulberry trees, that then thou shalt go out to battle: for God is gone forth before thee to smite the host of the Philistines.

14:16    大衛就遵著神所吩咐的，攻打非利士人的軍隊，從基遍直到基色。
David therefore did as God commanded him: and they smote the host of the Philistines from Gibeon even to Gazer.

14:17    於是大衛的名傳揚到列國，耶和華使列國都懼怕他。
And the fame of David went out into all lands; and the LORD brought the fear of him upon all nations.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


15:1    大衛在大衛城為自己建造宮殿，又為神的約櫃預備地方，支搭帳幕。
And David made him houses in the city of David, and prepared a place for the ark of God, and pitched for it a tent.

15:2    那時大衛說，除了利未人之外，無人可抬神的約櫃。因為耶和華揀選他們抬神的約櫃，且永遠事奉他。
Then David said, None ought to carry the ark of God but the Levites: for them hath the LORD chosen to carry the ark of God, and to minister unto him for ever.

15:3    大衛招聚以色列眾人到耶路撒冷，要將耶和華的約櫃抬到他所預備的地方。
And David gathered all Israel together to Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the LORD unto his place, which he had prepared for it.

15:4    大衛又聚集亞倫的子孫和利未人。
And David assembled the children of Aaron, and the Levites:

15:5    哥轄子孫中有族長烏列和他的弟兄一百二十人。
Of the sons of Kohath; Uriel the chief, and his brethren an hundred and twenty:

15:6    米拉利子孫中有族長亞帥雅和他的弟兄二百二十人。
Of the sons of Merari; Asaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred and twenty:

15:7    革順子孫中有族長約珥和他的弟兄一百三十人。
Of the sons of Gershom; Joel the chief, and his brethren an hundred and thirty:

15:8    以利撒反子孫中有族長示瑪雅和他的弟兄二百人。
Of the sons of Elizaphan; Shemaiah the chief, and his brethren two hundred:

15:9    希伯侖子孫中有族長以列和他的弟兄八十人。
Of the sons of Hebron; Eliel the chief, and his brethren fourscore:



15:10    烏薛子孫中有族長亞米拿達和他的弟兄一百一十二人。
Of the sons of Uzziel; Amminadab the chief, and his brethren an hundred and twelve.

15:11    大衛將祭司撒督和亞比亞他，並利未人烏列，亞帥雅，約珥，示瑪雅，以列，亞米拿達召來，
And David called for Zadok and Abiathar the priests, and for the Levites, for Uriel, Asaiah, and Joel, Shemaiah, and Eliel, and Amminadab,

15:12    對他們說，你們是利未人的族長，你們和你們的弟兄應當自潔，好將耶和華以色列神的約櫃抬到我所預備的地方。
And said unto them, Ye are the chief of the fathers of the Levites: sanctify yourselves, both ye and your brethren, that ye may bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel unto the place that I have prepared for it.

15:13    因你們先前沒有抬這約櫃，按定例求問耶和華我們的神，所以他刑罰（原文作闖殺）我們。
For because ye did it not at the first, the LORD our God made a breach upon us, for that we sought him not after the due order.

15:14    於是祭司利未人自潔，好將耶和華以色列神的約櫃抬上來。
So the priests and the Levites sanctified themselves to bring up the ark of the LORD God of Israel.

15:15    利未子孫就用槓，肩抬神的約櫃，是照耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的。
And the children of the Levites bare the ark of God upon their shoulders with the staves thereon, as Moses commanded according to the word of the LORD.

15:16    大衛吩咐利未人的族長，派他們歌唱的弟兄用琴瑟和鈸作樂，歡歡喜喜地大聲歌頌。
And David spake to the chief of the Levites to appoint their brethren to be the singers with instruments of musick, psalteries and harps and cymbals, sounding, by lifting up the voice with joy.

15:17    於是利未人派約珥的兒子希幔和他弟兄中比利家的兒子亞薩，並他們族弟兄米拉利子孫裡古沙雅的兒子以探。
So the Levites appointed Heman the son of Joel; and of his brethren, Asaph the son of Berechiah; and of the sons of Merari their brethren, Ethan the son of Kushaiah;

15:18    其次還有他們的弟兄撒迦利雅，便雅薛，示米拉末，耶歇，烏尼，以利押，比拿雅，瑪西雅，瑪他提雅，以利斐利戶，彌克尼雅，並守門的俄別以東和耶利。
And with them their brethren of the second degree, Zechariah, Ben, and Jaaziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, Eliab, and Benaiah, and Maaseiah, and Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, the porters.

15:19    這樣，派歌唱的希幔，亞薩，以探敲銅鈸，大發響聲。
So the singers, Heman, Asaph, and Ethan, were appointed to sound with cymbals of brass;

15:20    派撒迦利雅，雅薛，示米拉末，耶歇，烏尼，以利押，瑪西雅，比拿雅鼓瑟，呼叫女音。
And Zechariah, and Aziel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Unni, and Eliab, and Maaseiah, and Benaiah, with psalteries on Alamoth;

15:21    又派瑪他提雅，以利斐利戶，彌克尼雅，俄別以東，耶利，亞撒西雅領首彈琴，呼叫第八。
And Mattithiah, and Elipheleh, and Mikneiah, and Obededom, and Jeiel, and Azaziah, with harps on the Sheminith to excel.

15:22    利未人的族長基拿尼雅是歌唱人的首領，又教訓人歌唱，因為他精通此事。
And Chenaniah, chief of the Levites, was for song: he instructed about the song, because he was skilful.

15:23    比利家，以利加拿是約櫃前守門的。
And Berechiah and Elkanah were doorkeepers for the ark.

15:24    祭司示巴尼，約沙法，拿坦業，亞瑪賽，撒迦利雅，比拿亞，以利以謝在神的約櫃前吹號。俄別以東和耶希亞也是約櫃前守門的。
And Shebaniah, and Jehoshaphat, and Nethaneel, and Amasai, and Zechariah, and Benaiah, and Eliezer, the priests, did blow with the trumpets before the ark of God: and Obededom and Jehiah were doorkeepers for the ark.

15:25    於是，大衛和以色列的長老，並千夫長都去從俄別以東的家歡歡喜喜地將耶和華的約櫃抬上來。
So David, and the elders of Israel, and the captains over thousands, went to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the house of Obededom with joy.

15:26    神賜恩與抬耶和華約櫃的利未人，他們就獻上七隻公牛，七隻公羊。
And it came to pass, when God helped the Levites that bare the ark of the covenant of the LORD, that they offered seven bullocks and seven rams.

15:27    大衛和抬約櫃的利未人，並歌唱人的首領基拿尼雅，以及歌唱的人，都穿著細麻布的外袍。大衛另外穿著細麻布的以弗得。
And David was clothed with a robe of fine linen, and all the Levites that bare the ark, and the singers, and Chenaniah the master of the song with the singers: David also had upon him an ephod of linen.

15:28    這樣，以色列眾人歡呼吹角，吹號，敲鈸，鼓瑟，彈琴，大發響聲，將耶和華的約櫃抬上來。
Thus all Israel brought up the ark of the covenant of the LORD with shouting, and with sound of the cornet, and with trumpets, and with cymbals, making a noise with psalteries and harps.

15:29    耶和華的約櫃進了大衛城的時候，掃羅的女兒米甲從窗戶裡觀看，見大衛王踴躍跳舞，心裡就輕視他。
And it came to pass, as the ark of the covenant of the LORD came to the city of David, that Michal, the daughter of Saul looking out at a window saw king David dancing and playing: and she despised him in her heart.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


16:1    眾人將神的約櫃請進去，安放在大衛所搭的帳幕裡，就在神面前獻燔祭和平安祭。
So they brought the ark of God, and set it in the midst of the tent that David had pitched for it: and they offered burnt sacrifices and peace offerings before God.

16:2    大衛獻完了燔祭和平安祭，就奉耶和華的名給民祝福，
And when David had made an end of offering the burnt offerings and the peace offerings, he blessed the people in the name of the LORD.

16:3    並且分給以色列人，無論男女，每人一個餅，一塊肉，一個葡萄餅。
And he dealt to every one of Israel, both man and woman, to every one a loaf of bread, and a good piece of flesh, and a flagon of wine.

16:4    大衛派幾個利未人在耶和華的約櫃前事奉，頌揚，稱謝，讚美耶和華以色列的神，
And he appointed certain of the Levites to minister before the ark of the LORD, and to record, and to thank and praise the LORD God of Israel:

16:5    為首的是亞薩，其次是撒迦利雅，雅薛，示米拉末，耶歇，瑪他提雅，以利押，比拿雅，俄別以東，耶利，鼓瑟彈琴。惟有亞薩敲鈸，大發響聲。
Asaph the chief, and next to him Zechariah, Jeiel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehiel, and Mattithiah, and Eliab, and Benaiah, and Obededom: and Jeiel with psalteries and with harps; but Asaph made a sound with cymbals;

16:6    祭司比拿雅和雅哈悉常在神的約櫃前吹號。
Benaiah also and Jahaziel the priests with trumpets continually before the ark of the covenant of God.

16:7    那日，大衛初次藉亞薩和他的弟兄以詩歌稱頌耶和華，說，
Then on that day David delivered first this psalm to thank the LORD into the hand of Asaph and his brethren.

16:8    你們要稱謝耶和華，求告他的名，在萬民中傳揚他的作為。
Give thanks unto the LORD, call upon his name, make known his deeds among the people.

16:9    要向他唱詩，歌頌，談論他一切奇妙的作為。
Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him, talk ye of all his wondrous works.

16:10    要以他的聖名誇耀。尋求耶和華的人，心中應當歡喜。
Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD.

16:11    要尋求耶和華與他的能力，時常尋求他的面。
Seek the LORD and his strength, seek his face continually.

16:12    *
Remember his marvellous works that he hath done, his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;

16:13    他僕人以色列的後裔，他所揀選雅各的子孫哪，你們要記念他奇妙的作為和他的奇事，並他口中的判語。
O ye seed of Israel his servant, ye children of Jacob, his chosen ones.

16:14    他是耶和華我們的神，全地都有他的判斷。
He is the LORD our God; his judgments are in all the earth.

16:15    你們要記念他的約，直到永遠。他所吩咐的話，直到千代，
Be ye mindful always of his covenant; the word which he commanded to a thousand generations;

16:16    就是與亞伯拉罕所立的約，向以撒所起的誓。
Even of the covenant which he made with Abraham, and of his oath unto Isaac;

16:17    他又將這約向雅各定為律例，向以色列定為永遠的約，
And hath confirmed the same to Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant,

16:18    說，我必將迦南地賜給你，作你產業的分。
Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance;

16:19    當時你們人丁有限，數目稀少，並且在那地為寄居的。
When ye were but few, even a few, and strangers in it.

16:20    他們從這邦游到那邦，從這國行到那國。
And when they went from nation to nation, and from one kingdom to another people;

16:21    耶和華不容什麼人欺負他們，為他們的緣故責備君王，
He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes,

16:22    說，不可難為我受膏的人，也不可惡待我的先知。
Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

16:23    全地都要向耶和華歌唱。天天傳揚他的救恩，
Sing unto the LORD, all the earth; shew forth from day to day his salvation.

16:24    在列邦中述說他的榮耀，在萬民中述說他的奇事。
Declare his glory among the heathen; his marvellous works among all nations.

16:25    因耶和華為大，當受極大的讚美。他在萬神之上，當受敬畏。
For great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised: he also is to be feared above all gods.

16:26    外邦的神都屬虛無，惟獨耶和華創造諸天。
For all the gods of the people are idols: but the LORD made the heavens.

16:27    有尊榮和威嚴在他面前，有能力和喜樂在他聖所。
Glory and honour are in his presence; strength and gladness are in his place.

16:28    民中的萬族阿，你們要將榮耀能力歸給耶和華，都歸給耶和華。
Give unto the LORD, ye kindreds of the people, give unto the LORD glory and strength.

16:29    要將耶和華的名所當得的榮耀歸給他，拿供物來奉到他面前。當以聖潔的（的或作為）妝飾敬拜耶和華。
Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come before him: worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.

16:30    全地要在他面前山抖，世界也堅定不得動搖。
Fear before him, all the earth: the world also shall be stable, that it be not moved.

16:31    願天歡喜，願地快樂。願人在列邦中說，耶和華作王了。
Let the heavens be glad, and let the earth rejoice: and let men say among the nations, The LORD reigneth.

16:32    願海和其中所充滿的澎湃。願田和其中所有的都歡樂。
Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof: let the fields rejoice, and all that is therein.

16:33    那時，林中的樹木都要在耶和華面前歡呼，因為他來要審判全地。
Then shall the trees of the wood sing out at the presence of the LORD, because he cometh to judge the earth.

16:34    應當稱謝耶和華。因他本為善，他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever.

16:35    要說，拯救我們的神阿，求你救我們，聚集我們，使我們脫離外邦，我們好稱讚你的聖名，以讚美你為誇勝。
And say ye, Save us, O God of our salvation, and gather us together, and deliver us from the heathen, that we may give thanks to thy holy name, and glory in thy praise.

16:36    耶和華以色列的神，從亙古直到永遠，是應當稱頌的。眾民都說，阿們。並且讚美耶和華。
Blessed be the LORD God of Israel for ever and ever. And all the people said, Amen, and praised the LORD.

16:37    大衛派亞薩和他的弟兄在約櫃前常常事奉耶和華，一日盡一日的職分。
So he left there before the ark of the covenant of the LORD Asaph and his brethren, to minister before the ark continually, as every day's work required:

16:38    又派俄別以東和他的弟兄六十八人，與耶杜頓的兒子俄別以東，並何薩作守門的。
And Obededom with their brethren, threescore and eight; Obededom also the son of Jeduthun and Hosah to be porters:

16:39    *
And Zadok the priest, and his brethren the priests, before the tabernacle of the LORD in the high place that was at Gibeon,

16:40    且派祭司撒督和他弟兄眾祭司在基遍的邱壇，耶和華的帳幕前燔祭壇上，每日早晚，照著耶和華律法書上所吩咐以色列人的，常給耶和華獻燔祭。
To offer burnt offerings unto the LORD upon the altar of the burnt offering continually morning and evening, and to do according to all that is written in the law of the LORD, which he commanded Israel;

16:41    與他們一同被派的有希幔，耶杜頓，和其餘被選名字錄在冊上的，稱謝耶和華，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And with them Heman and Jeduthun, and the rest that were chosen, who were expressed by name, to give thanks to the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever;

16:42    希幔，耶杜頓同著他們吹號，敲鈸，大發響聲，並用別的樂器隨著歌頌神。耶杜頓的子孫作守門的。
And with them Heman and Jeduthun with trumpets and cymbals for those that should make a sound, and with musical instruments of God. And the sons of Jeduthun were porters.

16:43    於是眾民各歸各家。大衛也回去為家眷祝福。
And all the people departed every man to his house: and David returned to bless his house.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


17:1    大衛住在自己宮中，對先知拿單說，看哪，我住在香柏木的宮中，耶和華的約櫃反在幔子裡。
Now it came to pass, as David sat in his house, that David said to Nathan the prophet, Lo, I dwell in an house of cedars, but the ark of the covenant of the LORD remaineth under curtains.

17:2    拿單對大衛說，你可以照你的心意而行，因為神與你同在。
Then Nathan said unto David, Do all that is in thine heart; for God is with thee.

17:3    當夜，神的話臨到拿單，說，
And it came to pass the same night, that the word of God came to Nathan, saying,

17:4    你去告訴我僕人大衛，說耶和華如此說，你不可建造殿宇給我居住。
Go and tell David my servant, Thus saith the LORD, Thou shalt not build me an house to dwell in:

17:5    自從我領以色列人出埃及，直到今日，我未曾住過殿宇，乃從這會幕到那會幕，從這帳幕到那帳幕。
For I have not dwelt in an house since the day that I brought up Israel unto this day; but have gone from tent to tent, and from one tabernacle to another.

17:6    凡我同以色列人所走的地方，我何曾向以色列的一個士師，就是我吩咐牧養我民的說，你為何不給我建造香柏木的殿宇呢。
Wheresoever I have walked with all Israel, spake I a word to any of the judges of Israel, whom I commanded to feed my people, saying, Why have ye not built me an house of cedars?

17:7    現在你要告訴我僕人大衛，說萬軍之耶和華如此說，我從羊圈中將你召來，叫你不再跟從羊群，立你作我民以色列的君。
Now therefore thus shalt thou say unto my servant David, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, I took thee from the sheepcote, even from following the sheep, that thou shouldest be ruler over my people Israel:

17:8    你無論往哪裡去，我常與你同在，剪除你的一切仇敵。我必使你得大名，好像世上大大有名的人一樣。
And I have been with thee whithersoever thou hast walked, and have cut off all thine enemies from before thee, and have made thee a name like the name of the great men that are in the earth.

17:9    我必為我民以色列選定一個地方，栽培他們，使他們住自己的地方，不再遷移。凶惡之子也不像從前擾害他們，
Also I will ordain a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, and they shall dwell in their place, and shall be moved no more; neither shall the children of wickedness waste them any more, as at the beginning,

17:10    並不像我命士師治理我民以色列的時候一樣。我必治服你的一切仇敵，並且我耶和華應許你，必為你建立家室。
And since the time that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel. Moreover I will subdue all thine enemies. Furthermore I tell thee that the LORD will build thee an house.

17:11    你壽數滿足歸你列祖的時候，我必使你的後裔接續你的位，我也必堅定他的國。
And it shall come to pass, when thy days be expired that thou must go to be with thy fathers, that I will raise up thy seed after thee, which shall be of thy sons; and I will establish his kingdom.

17:12    他必為我建造殿宇。我必堅定他的國位直到永遠。
He shall build me an house, and I will stablish his throne for ever.

17:13    我要作他的父，他要作我的子。並不使我的慈愛離開他，像離開在你以前的掃羅一樣。
I will be his father, and he shall be my son: and I will not take my mercy away from him, as I took it from him that was before thee:

17:14    我卻要將他永遠堅立在我家裡和我國裡。他的國位也必堅定，直到永遠。
But I will settle him in mine house and in my kingdom for ever: and his throne shall be established for evermore.

17:15    拿單就按這一切話，照這默示告訴大衛。
According to all these words, and according to all this vision, so did Nathan speak unto David.

17:16    於是大衛王進去，坐在耶和華面前，說，耶和華神阿，我是誰，我的家算什麼，你竟使我到這地步呢。
And David the king came and sat before the LORD, and said, Who am I, O LORD God, and what is mine house, that thou hast brought me hitherto?

17:17    神阿，這在你眼中還看為小，又應許你僕人的家至於久遠。耶和華神阿，你看顧我好像看顧高貴的人。
And yet this was a small thing in thine eyes, O God; for thou hast also spoken of thy servant's house for a great while to come, and hast regarded me according to the estate of a man of high degree, O LORD God.

17:18    你加於僕人的尊榮，我還有何言可說呢。因為你知道你的僕人。
What can David speak more to thee for the honour of thy servant? for thou knowest thy servant.

17:19    耶和華阿，你行了這大事，並且顯明出來，是因你僕人的緣故，也是照你的心意。
O LORD, for thy servant's sake, and according to thine own heart, hast thou done all this greatness, in making known all these great things.

17:20    耶和華阿，照我們耳中聽見，沒有可比你的，除你以外再無神。
O LORD, there is none like thee, neither is there any God beside thee, according to all that we have heard with our ears.

17:21    世上有何民能比你的民以色列呢。你神從埃及救贖他們作自己的子民，又在你贖出來的民面前行大而可畏的事，驅逐列邦人，顯出你的大名。
And what one nation in the earth is like thy people Israel, whom God went to redeem to be his own people, to make thee a name of greatness and terribleness, by driving out nations from before thy people, whom thou hast redeemed out of Egypt?



17:22    你使以色列人作你的子民，直到永遠。你耶和華也作他們的神。
For thy people Israel didst thou make thine own people for ever; and thou, LORD, becamest their God.

17:23    耶和華阿，你所應許僕人和僕人家的話，求你堅定，直到永遠，照你所說的而行。
Therefore now, LORD, let the thing that thou hast spoken concerning thy servant and concerning his house be established for ever, and do as thou hast said.

17:24    願你的名永遠堅立，被尊為大，說，萬軍之耶和華是以色列的神，是治理以色列的神。這樣，你僕人大衛的家必在你面前堅立。
Let it even be established, that thy name may be magnified for ever, saying, The LORD of hosts is the God of Israel, even a God to Israel: and let the house of David thy servant be established before thee.

17:25    我的神阿，因你啟示僕人說，我必為你建立家室，所以僕人大膽在你面前祈禱。
For thou, O my God, hast told thy servant that thou wilt build him an house: therefore thy servant hath found in his heart to pray before thee.

17:26    耶和華阿，惟有你是神，你也應許將這福氣賜給僕人。
And now, LORD, thou art God, and hast promised this goodness unto thy servant:

17:27    現在你喜悅賜福與僕人的家，可以永存在你面前。耶和華阿，你已經賜福，還要賜福到永遠。
Now therefore let it please thee to bless the house of thy servant, that it may be before thee for ever: for thou blessest, O LORD, and it shall be blessed for ever.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


18:1    此後，大衛攻打非利士人，把他們治服，從他們手下奪取了迦特和屬迦特的村莊。
Now after this it came to pass, that David smote the Philistines, and subdued them, and took Gath and her towns out of the hand of the Philistines.

18:2    又攻打摩押，摩押人就歸服大衛，給他進貢。
And he smote Moab; and the Moabites became David's servants, and brought gifts.

18:3    瑣賜王哈大利謝（哈大利謝撒母耳下八章三節作哈大底謝）往幼發拉底河去，要堅定自己的國權，大衛就攻打他，直到哈馬，
And David smote Hadarezer king of Zobah unto Hamath, as he went to stablish his dominion by the river Euphrates.

18:4    奪了他的戰車一千，馬兵七千，步兵二萬，將拉戰車的馬砍斷蹄筋，但留下一百輛車的馬。
And David took from him a thousand chariots, and seven thousand horsemen, and twenty thousand footmen: David also houghed all the chariot horses, but reserved of them an hundred chariots.

18:5    大馬士革的亞蘭人來幫助瑣巴王哈大利謝，大衛就殺了亞蘭人二萬二千。
And when the Syrians of Damascus came to help Hadarezer king of Zobah, David slew of the Syrians two and twenty thousand men.

18:6    於是大衛在大馬士革的亞蘭地設立防營，亞蘭人就歸服他，給他進貢。大衛無論往哪裡去，耶和華都使他得勝。
Then David put garrisons in Syriadamascus; and the Syrians became David's servants, and brought gifts. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

18:7    他奪了哈大利謝臣僕所拿的金盾牌帶到耶路撒冷。
And David took the shields of gold that were on the servants of Hadarezer, and brought them to Jerusalem.

18:8    大衛又從屬哈大利謝的提巴（提巴或作比他）和均二城中奪取了許多的銅。後來所羅門用此製造銅海，銅柱，和一切的銅器。
Likewise from Tibhath, and from Chun, cities of Hadarezer, brought David very much brass, wherewith Solomon made the brasen sea, and the pillars, and the vessels of brass.

18:9    哈馬王陀烏聽見大衛殺敗瑣巴王哈大利謝的全軍，
Now when Tou king of Hamath heard how David had smitten all the host of Hadarezer king of Zobah;

18:10    就打發他兒子哈多蘭去見大衛王，問他的安，為他祝福，因為他殺敗了哈大利謝，原來陀烏與哈大利謝常常爭戰。哈多蘭帶了金銀銅的各樣器皿來。
He sent Hadoram his son to king David, to enquire of his welfare, and to congratulate him, because he had fought against Hadarezer, and smitten him; (for Hadarezer had war with Tou;) and with him all manner of vessels of gold and silver and brass.

18:11    大衛王將這些器皿，並從各國奪來的金銀，就是從以東，摩押，亞捫，非利士，亞瑪力人所奪來的，都分別為聖獻給耶和華。
Them also king David dedicated unto the LORD, with the silver and the gold that he brought from all these nations; from Edom, and from Moab, and from the children of Ammon, and from the Philistines, and from Amalek.

18:12    洗魯雅的兒子亞比篩在鹽谷擊殺了以東一萬八千人。
Moreover Abishai the son of Zeruiah slew of the Edomites in the valley of salt eighteen thousand.

18:13    大衛在以東地設立防營，以東人就都歸服他。大衛無論往哪裡去，耶和華都使他得勝。
And he put garrisons in Edom; and all the Edomites became David's servants. Thus the LORD preserved David whithersoever he went.

18:14    大衛作以色列眾人的王，又向眾民秉公行義。
So David reigned over all Israel, and executed judgment and justice among all his people.

18:15    洗魯雅的兒子約押作元帥。亞希律的兒子約沙法作史官。
And Joab the son of Zeruiah was over the host; and Jehoshaphat the son of Ahilud, recorder.

18:16    亞希突的兒子撒督和亞比亞他的兒子亞希米勒作祭司長。沙威沙作書記。
And Zadok the son of Ahitub, and Abimelech the son of Abiathar, were the priests; and Shavsha was scribe;

18:17    耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅統轄基利提人和比利提人。大衛的眾子都在王的左右作領袖。
And Benaiah the son of Jehoiada was over the Cherethites and the Pelethites; and the sons of David were chief about the king.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


19:1    此後，亞捫人的王拿轄死了，他兒子接續他作王。
Now it came to pass after this, that Nahash the king of the children of Ammon died, and his son reigned in his stead.

19:2    大衛說，我要照哈嫩的父親拿轄厚待我的恩典厚待哈嫩。於是大衛差遣使者為他喪父安慰他。大衛的臣僕到了亞捫人的境內見哈嫩，要安慰他，
And David said, I will shew kindness unto Hanun the son of Nahash, because his father shewed kindness to me. And David sent messengers to comfort him concerning his father. So the servants of David came into the land of the children of Ammon to Hanun, to comfort him.

19:3    但亞捫人的首領對哈嫩說，大衛差人來安慰你，你想他是尊敬你父親嗎。他的臣僕來見你不是為詳察窺探，傾覆這地嗎。
But the princes of the children of Ammon said to Hanun, Thinkest thou that David doth honour thy father, that he hath sent comforters unto thee? are not his servants come unto thee for to search, and to overthrow, and to spy out the land?

19:4    哈嫩便將大衛臣僕的鬍鬚剃去一半，又割斷他們下半截的衣服，使他們露出下體，打發他們回去。
Wherefore Hanun took David's servants, and shaved them, and cut off their garments in the midst hard by their buttocks, and sent them away.

19:5    有人將臣僕所遇的事告訴大衛，他就差人去迎接他們，因為他們甚覺羞恥。告訴他們說，可以住在耶利哥，等到鬍鬚長起再回來。
Then there went certain, and told David how the men were served. And he sent to meet them: for the men were greatly ashamed. And the king said, Tarry at Jericho until your beards be grown, and then return.

19:6    亞捫人知道大衛憎惡他們，哈嫩和亞捫人就打發人拿一千他連得銀子，從美索不達米亞，亞蘭，瑪迦，瑣巴僱戰車和馬兵，
And when the children of Ammon saw that they had made themselves odious to David, Hanun and the children of Ammon sent a thousand talents of silver to hire them chariots and horsemen out of Mesopotamia, and out of Syriamaachah, and out of Zobah.

19:7    於是僱了三萬二千輛戰車和瑪迦王並他的軍兵。他們來安營在米底巴前。亞捫人也從他們的城裡出來，聚集交戰。
So they hired thirty and two thousand chariots, and the king of Maachah and his people; who came and pitched before Medeba. And the children of Ammon gathered themselves together from their cities, and came to battle.

19:8    大衛聽見了，就差派約押統帶勇猛的全軍出去。
And when David heard of it, he sent Joab, and all the host of the mighty men.

19:9    亞捫人出來在城門前擺陣，所來的諸王另在郊野擺陣。
And the children of Ammon came out, and put the battle in array before the gate of the city: and the kings that were come were by themselves in the field.

19:10    約押看見敵人在他前後擺陣，就從以色列軍中挑選精兵，使他們對著亞蘭人擺陣。
Now when Joab saw that the battle was set against him before and behind, he chose out of all the choice of Israel, and put them in array against the Syrians.

19:11    其餘的兵交與他兄弟亞比篩，對著亞捫人擺陣。
And the rest of the people he delivered unto the hand of Abishai his brother, and they set themselves in array against the children of Ammon.

19:12    約押對亞比篩說，亞蘭人若強過我，你就來幫助我。亞捫人若強過你，我就去幫助你。
And he said, If the Syrians be too strong for me, then thou shalt help me: but if the children of Ammon be too strong for thee, then I will help thee.

19:13    我們都當剛強，為本國的民和神的城邑作大丈夫，願耶和華憑他的意旨而行。
Be of good courage, and let us behave ourselves valiantly for our people, and for the cities of our God: and let the LORD do that which is good in his sight.

19:14    於是約押和跟隨他的人前進攻打亞蘭人。亞蘭人在約押面前逃跑。
So Joab and the people that were with him drew nigh before the Syrians unto the battle; and they fled before him.

19:15    亞捫人見亞蘭人逃跑，他們也在約押的兄弟亞比篩面前逃跑進城。約押就回耶路撒冷去了。
And when the children of Ammon saw that the Syrians were fled, they likewise fled before Abishai his brother, and entered into the city. Then Joab came to Jerusalem.

19:16    亞蘭人見自己被以色列人打敗，就打發使者將大河那邊的亞蘭人調來，哈大利謝的將軍朔法率領他們。
And when the Syrians saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they sent messengers, and drew forth the Syrians that were beyond the river: and Shophach the captain of the host of Hadarezer went before them.

19:17    有人告訴大衛，他就聚集以色列眾人過約旦河，來到亞蘭人那裡，迎著他們擺陣。大衛既擺陣攻擊亞蘭人，亞蘭人就與他打仗。
And it was told David; and he gathered all Israel, and passed over Jordan, and came upon them, and set the battle in array against them. So when David had put the battle in array against the Syrians, they fought with him.

19:18    亞蘭人在以色列人面前逃跑。大衛殺了亞蘭七千輛戰車的人，四萬步兵，又殺了亞蘭的將軍朔法。
But the Syrians fled before Israel; and David slew of the Syrians seven thousand men which fought in chariots, and forty thousand footmen, and killed Shophach the captain of the host.

19:19    屬哈大利謝的諸王見自己被以色列人打敗，就與大衛和好，歸服他。於是亞蘭人不敢再幫助亞捫人了。
And when the servants of Hadarezer saw that they were put to the worse before Israel, they made peace with David, and became his servants: neither would the Syrians help the children of Ammon any more.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


20:1    過了一年，到列王出戰的時候，約押率領軍兵毀壞亞捫人的地，圍攻拉巴。大衛仍住在耶路撒冷。約押攻打拉巴，將城傾覆。
And it came to pass, that after the year was expired, at the time that kings go out to battle, Joab led forth the power of the army, and wasted the country of the children of Ammon, and came and besieged Rabbah. But David tarried at Jerusalem. And Joab smote Rabbah, and destroyed it.

20:2    大衛奪了亞捫人之王所戴的金冠冕（王或作瑪勒堪。瑪勒堪即米勒公，亞捫族之神名），其上的金子重一他連得，又嵌著寶石。人將這冠冕戴在大衛頭上。大衛從城裡奪了許多財物，
And David took the crown of their king from off his head, and found it to weigh a talent of gold, and there were precious stones in it; and it was set upon David's head: and he brought also exceeding much spoil out of the city.

20:3    將城裡的人拉出來，放在鋸下，或鐵耙下，或鐵斧下（或作強他們用鋸，或用打糧食的鐵器，或用鐵斧作工），大衛待亞捫各城的居民都是如此。其後大衛和眾軍都回耶路撒冷去了。
And he brought out the people that were in it, and cut them with saws, and with harrows of iron, and with axes. Even so dealt David with all the cities of the children of Ammon. And David and all the people returned to Jerusalem.

20:4    後來，以色列人在基色與非利士人打仗。戶沙人西比該殺了偉人的一個兒子細派，非利士人就被制伏了。
And it came to pass after this, that there arose war at Gezer with the Philistines; at which time Sibbechai the Hushathite slew Sippai, that was of the children of the giant: and they were subdued.

20:5    又與非利士人打仗。睚珥的兒子伊勒哈難殺了迦特人歌利亞的兄弟拉哈米。這人的槍桿粗如織布的機軸。
And there was war again with the Philistines; and Elhanan the son of Jair slew Lahmi the brother of Goliath the Gittite, whose spear staff was like a weaver's beam.

20:6    又在迦特打仗。那裡有一個身量高大的人，手腳都是六指，共有二十四個指頭，他也是偉人的兒子。
And yet again there was war at Gath, where was a man of great stature, whose fingers and toes were four and twenty, six on each hand, and six on each foot and he also was the son of the giant.

20:7    這人向以色列人罵陣，大衛的哥哥示米亞的兒子約拿單就殺了他。
But when he defied Israel, Jonathan the son of Shimea David's brother slew him.

20:8    這三個人是迦特偉人的兒子，都死在大衛和他僕人的手下。
These were born unto the giant in Gath; and they fell by the hand of David, and by the hand of his servants.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


21:1    撒但起來攻擊以色列人，激動大衛數點他們。
And Satan stood up against Israel, and provoked David to number Israel.

21:2    大衛就吩咐約押和民中的首領說，你們去數點以色列人，從別是巴直到但，回來告訴我，我好知道他們的數目。
And David said to Joab and to the rulers of the people, Go, number Israel from Beersheba even to Dan; and bring the number of them to me, that I may know it.

21:3    約押說，願耶和華使他的百姓比現在加增百倍。我主我王阿，他們不都是你的僕人嗎。我主為何吩咐行這事，為何使以色列人陷在罪裡呢。
And Joab answered, The LORD make his people an hundred times so many more as they be: but, my lord the king, are they not all my lord's servants? why then doth my lord require this thing? why will he be a cause of trespass to Israel?

21:4    但王的命令勝過約押。約押就出去，走遍以色列地，回到耶路撒冷，
Nevertheless the king's word prevailed against Joab. Wherefore Joab departed, and went throughout all Israel, and came to Jerusalem.

21:5    將百姓的總數奏告大衛，以色列人拿刀的有一百一十萬。猶大人拿刀的有四十七萬。
And Joab gave the sum of the number of the people unto David. And all they of Israel were a thousand thousand and an hundred thousand men that drew sword: and Judah was four hundred threescore and ten thousand men that drew sword.

21:6    惟有利未人和便雅憫人沒有數在其中，因為約押厭惡王的這命令。
But Levi and Benjamin counted he not among them: for the king's word was abominable to Joab.

21:7    神不喜悅這數點百姓的事，便降災給以色列人。
And God was displeased with this thing; therefore he smote Israel.

21:8    大衛禱告神說，我行這事大有罪了。現在求你除掉僕人的罪孽，因我所行的甚是愚昧。
And David said unto God, I have sinned greatly, because I have done this thing: but now, I beseech thee, do away the iniquity of thy servant; for I have done very foolishly.

21:9    耶和華吩咐大衛的先見迦得說，
And the LORD spake unto Gad, David's seer, saying,

21:10    你去告訴大衛說，耶和華如此說，我有三樣災，隨你選擇一樣，我好降與你。
Go and tell David, saying, Thus saith the LORD, I offer thee three things: choose thee one of them, that I may do it unto thee.

21:11    於是，迦得來見大衛，對他說，耶和華如此說，你可以隨意選擇，
So Gad came to David, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Choose thee

21:12    或三年的饑荒。或敗在你敵人面前，被敵人的刀追殺三個月。或在你國中有耶和華的刀，就是三日的瘟疫，耶和華的使者在以色列的四境施行毀滅。現在你要想一想，我好回覆那差我來的。
Either three years' famine; or three months to be destroyed before thy foes, while that the sword of thine enemies overtaketh thee; or else three days the sword of the LORD, even the pestilence, in the land, and the angel of the LORD destroying throughout all the coasts of Israel. Now therefore advise thyself what word I shall bring again to him that sent me.

21:13    大衛對迦得說，我甚為難。我願落在耶和華的手裡，因為他有豐盛的憐憫。我不願落在人的手裡。
And David said unto Gad, I am in a great strait: let me fall now into the hand of the LORD; for very great are his mercies: but let me not fall into the hand of man.

21:14    於是，耶和華降瘟疫與以色列人，以色列人就死了七萬。
So the LORD sent pestilence upon Israel: and there fell of Israel seventy thousand men.

21:15    神差遣使者去滅耶路撒冷，剛要滅的時候，耶和華看見後悔，就不降這災了，吩咐滅城的天使說，夠了，住手吧。那時，耶和華的使者站在耶布斯人阿珥楠的禾場那裡。
And God sent an angel unto Jerusalem to destroy it: and as he was destroying, the LORD beheld, and he repented him of the evil, and said to the angel that destroyed, It is enough, stay now thine hand. And the angel of the LORD stood by the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.

21:16    大衛舉目，看見耶和華的使者站在天地間，手裡有拔出來的刀，伸在耶路撒冷以上。大衛和長老都身穿麻衣，面伏於地。
And David lifted up his eyes, and saw the angel of the LORD stand between the earth and the heaven, having a drawn sword in his hand stretched out over Jerusalem. Then David and the elders of Israel, who were clothed in sackcloth, fell upon their faces.

21:17    大衛禱告神說，吩咐數點百姓的不是我嗎。我犯了罪，行了惡，但這群羊作了什麼呢。願耶和華我神的手攻擊我和我的父家，不要攻擊你的民，降瘟疫與他們。
And David said unto God, Is it not I that commanded the people to be numbered? even I it is that have sinned and done evil indeed; but as for these sheep, what have they done? let thine hand, I pray thee, O LORD my God, be on me, and on my father's house; but not on thy people, that they should be plagued.

21:18    耶和華的使者吩咐迦得去告訴大衛，叫他上去，在耶布斯人阿珥楠的禾場上為耶和華築一座壇。
Then the angel of the LORD commanded Gad to say to David, that David should go up, and set up an altar unto the LORD in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.

21:19    大衛就照著迦得奉耶和華名所說的話上去了。
And David went up at the saying of Gad, which he spake in the name of the LORD.

21:20    那時阿珥楠正打麥子，回頭看見天使，就和他四個兒子都藏起來了。
And Ornan turned back, and saw the angel; and his four sons with him hid themselves. Now Ornan was threshing wheat.

21:21    大衛到了阿珥楠那裡，阿珥楠看見大衛，就從禾場上出去，臉伏於地，向他下拜。
And as David came to Ornan, Ornan looked and saw David, and went out of the threshingfloor, and bowed himself to David with his face to the ground.

21:22    大衛對阿珥楠說，你將這禾場與相連之地賣給我，我必給你足價，我好在其上為耶和華築一座壇，使民間的瘟疫止住。
Then David said to Ornan, Grant me the place of this threshingfloor, that I may build an altar therein unto the LORD: thou shalt grant it me for the full price: that the plague may be stayed from the people.

21:23    阿珥楠對大衛說，你可以用這禾場，願我主我王照你所喜悅的去行。我也將牛給你作燔祭，把打糧的器具當柴燒，拿麥子作素祭。這些我都送給你。
And Ornan said unto David, Take it to thee, and let my lord the king do that which is good in his eyes: lo, I give thee the oxen also for burnt offerings, and the threshing instruments for wood, and the wheat for the meat offering; I give it all.

21:24    大衛王對阿珥楠說，不然。我必要用足價向你買。我不用你的物獻給耶和華，也不用白得之物獻為燔祭。
And king David said to Ornan, Nay; but I will verily buy it for the full price: for I will not take that which is thine for the LORD, nor offer burnt offerings without cost.

21:25    於是大衛為那塊地平了六百舍客勒金子給阿珥楠。
So David gave to Ornan for the place six hundred shekels of gold by weight.

21:26    大衛在那裡為耶和華築了一座壇，獻燔祭和平安祭，求告耶和華。耶和華就應允他，使火從天降在燔祭壇上。
And David built there an altar unto the LORD, and offered burnt offerings and peace offerings, and called upon the LORD; and he answered him from heaven by fire upon the altar of burnt offering.

21:27    耶和華吩咐使者，他就收刀入鞘。
And the LORD commanded the angel; and he put up his sword again into the sheath thereof.

21:28    那時，大衛見耶和華在耶布斯人阿珥楠的禾場上應允了他，就在那裡獻祭。
At that time when David saw that the LORD had answered him in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite, then he sacrificed there.

21:29    摩西在曠野所造之耶和華的帳幕和燔祭壇都在基遍的高處。
For the tabernacle of the LORD, which Moses made in the wilderness, and the altar of the burnt offering, were at that season in the high place at Gibeon.

21:30    只是大衛不敢前去求問神，因為懼怕耶和華使者的刀。
But David could not go before it to enquire of God: for he was afraid because of the sword of the angel of the LORD.

21:31    大衛說，這就是耶和華神的殿，為以色列人獻燔祭的壇。
Then David said, This is the house of the LORD God, and this is the altar of the burnt offering for Israel.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


22:1    大衛吩咐聚集住以色列地的外邦人，從其中派石匠鑿石頭，要建造神的殿。
And David commanded to gather together the strangers that were in the land of Israel; and he set masons to hew wrought stones to build the house of God.

22:2    大衛預備許多鐵作門上的釘子和鉤子，又預備許多銅，多得無法可稱。
And David prepared iron in abundance for the nails for the doors of the gates, and for the joinings; and brass in abundance without weight;

22:3    又預備無數的香柏木，因為西頓人和推羅人給大衛運了許多香柏木來。
Also cedar trees in abundance: for the Zidonians and they of Tyre brought much cedar wood to David.

22:4    大衛說，我兒子所羅門還年幼嬌嫩，要為耶和華建造的殿宇必須高大輝煌，使名譽榮耀傳遍萬國。所以我要為殿預備材料。於是，大衛在未死之先預備的材料甚多。
And David said, Solomon my son is young and tender, and the house that is to be builded for the LORD must be exceeding magnifical, of fame and of glory throughout all countries: I will therefore now make preparation for it. So David prepared abundantly before his death.

22:5    大衛召了他兒子所羅門來，囑咐他給耶和華以色列的神建造殿宇，
Then he called for Solomon his son, and charged him to build an house for the LORD God of Israel.

22:6    對所羅門說，我兒阿，我心裡本想為耶和華我神的名建造殿宇，
And David said to Solomon, My son, as for me, it was in my mind to build an house unto the name of the LORD my God:

22:7    只是耶和華的話臨到我說，你流了多人的血，打了多次大仗，你不可為我的名建造殿宇，因為你在我眼前使多人的血流在地上。
But the word of the LORD came to me, saying, Thou hast shed blood abundantly, and hast made great wars: thou shalt not build an house unto my name, because thou hast shed much blood upon the earth in my sight.

22:8    你要生一個兒子，他必作太平的人。我必使他安靜，不被四圍的仇敵擾亂。他的名要叫所羅門（就是太平的意思）。他在位的日子，我必使以色列人平安康泰。
Behold, a son shall be born to thee, who shall be a man of rest; and I will give him rest from all his enemies round about: for his name shall be Solomon, and I will give peace and quietness unto Israel in his days.

22:9    他必為我的名建造殿宇。他要作我的子。我要作他的父。他作以色列王。我必堅定他的國位，直到永遠。
He shall build an house for my name; and he shall be my son, and I will be his father; and I will establish the throne of his kingdom over Israel for ever.

22:10    我兒阿，現今願耶和華與你同在，使你亨通，照他指著你說的話，建造耶和華你神的殿。
Now, my son, the LORD be with thee; and prosper thou, and build the house of the LORD thy God, as he hath said of thee.

22:11    但願耶和華賜你聰明智慧，好治理以色列國，遵行耶和華你神的律法。
Only the LORD give thee wisdom and understanding, and give thee charge concerning Israel, that thou mayest keep the law of the LORD thy God.

22:12    你若謹守遵行耶和華藉摩西吩咐以色列的律例典章，就得亨通。你當剛強壯膽，不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。
Then shalt thou prosper, if thou takest heed to fulfil the statutes and judgments which the LORD charged Moses with concerning Israel: be strong, and of good courage; dread not, nor be dismayed.

22:13    我在困難之中為耶和華的殿預備了金子十萬他連得，銀子一百萬他連得，銅和鐵多得無法可稱。我也預備了木頭，石頭，你還可以增添。
Now, behold, in my trouble I have prepared for the house of the LORD an hundred thousand talents of gold, and a thousand thousand talents of silver; and of brass and iron without weight; for it is in abundance: timber also and stone have I prepared; and thou mayest add thereto.

22:14    你有許多匠人，就是石匠，木匠，和一切能作各樣工的巧匠，
Moreover there are workmen with thee in abundance, hewers and workers of stone and timber, and all manner of cunning men for every manner of work.

22:15    並有無數的金銀銅鐵。你當起來辦事，願耶和華與你同在。
Of the gold, the silver, and the brass, and the iron, there is no number. Arise therefore, and be doing, and the LORD be with thee.

22:16    大衛又吩咐以色列的眾首領幫助他兒子所羅門，說，
David also commanded all the princes of Israel to help Solomon his son, saying,

22:17    耶和華你們的神不是與你們同在嗎。不是叫你們四圍都平安嗎。因他已將這地的居民交在我手中，這地就在耶和華與他百姓面前制伏了。
Is not the LORD your God with you? and hath he not given you rest on every side? for he hath given the inhabitants of the land into mine hand; and the land is subdued before the LORD, and before his people.

22:18    現在你們應當立定心意，尋求耶和華你們的神。也當起來建造耶和華神的聖所，好將耶和華的約櫃和供奉神的聖器皿都搬進為耶和華名建造的殿裡。
Now set your heart and your soul to seek the LORD your God; arise therefore, and build ye the sanctuary of the LORD God, to bring the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and the holy vessels of God, into the house that is to be built to the name of the LORD.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


23:1    大衛年紀老邁，日子滿足，就立他兒子所羅門作以色列的王。
So when David was old and full of days, he made Solomon his son king over Israel.

23:2    大衛招聚以色列的眾首領和祭司利未人。
And he gathered together all the princes of Israel, with the priests and the Levites.

23:3    利未人從三十歲以外的都被數點，他們男丁的數目共有三萬八千。
Now the Levites were numbered from the age of thirty years and upward: and their number by their polls, man by man, was thirty and eight thousand.

23:4    其中有二萬四千人管理耶和華殿的事，有六千人作官長和士師，
Of which, twenty and four thousand were to set forward the work of the house of the LORD; and six thousand were officers and judges:

23:5    有四千人作守門的，又有四千人用大衛所作的樂器頌讚耶和華。
Moreover four thousand were porters; and four thousand praised the LORD with the instruments which I made, said David, to praise therewith.

23:6    大衛將利未人革順，哥轄，米拉利的子孫分了班次。
And David divided them into courses among the sons of Levi, namely, Gershon, Kohath, and Merari.

23:7    革順的子孫有拉但和示每。
Of the Gershonites were, Laadan, and Shimei.

23:8    拉但的長子是耶歇，還有細坦和約珥，共三人。
The sons of Laadan; the chief was Jehiel, and Zetham, and Joel, three.

23:9    示每的兒子是示羅密，哈薛，哈蘭三人。這是拉但族的族長。
The sons of Shimei; Shelomith, and Haziel, and Haran, three. These were the chief of the fathers of Laadan.

23:10    示每的兒子是雅哈，細拿，耶烏施，比利亞共四人。
And the sons of Shimei were, Jahath, Zina, and Jeush, and Beriah. These four were the sons of Shimei.

23:11    雅哈是長子，細撒是次子。但耶烏施和比利亞的子孫不多，所以算為一族。
And Jahath was the chief, and Zizah the second: but Jeush and Beriah had not many sons; therefore they were in one reckoning, according to their father's house.

23:12    哥轄的兒子是暗蘭，以斯哈，希伯倫，烏薛共四人。
The sons of Kohath; Amram, Izhar, Hebron, and Uzziel, four.

23:13    暗蘭的兒子是亞倫，摩西。亞倫和他的子孫分出來，好分別至聖的物，在耶和華面前燒香，事奉他，奉他的名祝福，直到永遠。
The sons of Amram; Aaron and Moses: and Aaron was separated, that he should sanctify the most holy things, he and his sons for ever, to burn incense before the LORD, to minister unto him, and to bless in his name for ever.

23:14    至於神人摩西，他的子孫名字記在利未支派的冊上。
Now concerning Moses the man of God, his sons were named of the tribe of Levi.

23:15    摩西的兒子是革舜和以利以謝。
The sons of Moses were, Gershom, and Eliezer.

23:16    革舜的長子是細布業。
Of the sons of Gershom, Shebuel was the chief.

23:17    以利以謝的兒子是利哈比雅。以利以謝沒有別的兒子，但利哈比雅的子孫甚多。
And the sons of Eliezer were, Rehabiah the chief. And Eliezer had none other sons; but the sons of Rehabiah were very many.

23:18    以斯哈的長子是示羅密。
Of the sons of Izhar; Shelomith the chief.

23:19    希伯倫的長子是耶利雅，次子是亞瑪利亞，三子是雅哈悉，四子是耶加面。
Of the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, and Jekameam the fourth.

23:20    烏薛的長子是米迦，次子是耶西雅。
Of the sons of Uzziel; Micah the first, and Jesiah the second.

23:21    米拉利的兒子是抹利，母示。抹利的兒子是以利亞撒，基士。
The sons of Merari; Mahli, and Mushi. The sons of Mahli; Eleazar, and Kish.

23:22    以利亞撒死了，沒有兒子，只有女兒，他們本族基士的兒子娶了她們為妻。
And Eleazar died, and had no sons, but daughters: and their brethren the sons of Kish took them.

23:23    母示的兒子是末力，以得，耶利摩共三人。
The sons of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jeremoth, three.

23:24    以上利未子孫作族長的，照著男丁的數目，從二十歲以外，都辦耶和華殿的事務。
These were the sons of Levi after the house of their fathers; even the chief of the fathers, as they were counted by number of names by their polls, that did the work for the service of the house of the LORD, from the age of twenty years and upward.

23:25    大衛說，耶和華以色列的神已經使他的百姓平安，他永遠住在耶路撒冷。
For David said, The LORD God of Israel hath given rest unto his people, that they may dwell in Jerusalem for ever:

23:26    利未人不必再抬帳幕和其中所用的一切器皿了。
And also unto the Levites; they shall no more carry the tabernacle, nor any vessels of it for the service thereof.

23:27    照著大衛臨終所吩咐的，利未人從二十歲以外的都被數點。
For by the last words of David the Levites were numbered from twenty years old and above:

23:28    他們的職任是服事亞倫的子孫，在耶和華的殿和院子，並屋中辦事，潔淨一切聖物，就是辦神殿的事務，
Because their office was to wait on the sons of Aaron for the service of the house of the LORD, in the courts, and in the chambers, and in the purifying of all holy things, and the work of the service of the house of God;

23:29    並管理陳設餅，素祭的細面，或無酵薄餅，或用盤烤，或用油調和的物，又管理各樣的升斗尺度。
Both for the shewbread, and for the fine flour for meat offering, and for the unleavened cakes, and for that which is baked in the pan, and for that which is fried, and for all manner of measure and size;

23:30    每日早晚，站立稱謝讚美耶和華，
And to stand every morning to thank and praise the LORD, and likewise at even;

23:31    又在安息日，月朔，並節期，按數照例，將燔祭常常獻給耶和華。
And to offer all burnt sacrifices unto the LORD in the sabbaths, in the new moons, and on the set feasts, by number, according to the order commanded unto them, continually before the LORD:

23:32    又看守會幕和聖所，並守耶和華吩咐他們弟兄亞倫子孫的，辦耶和華殿的事。
And that they should keep the charge of the tabernacle of the congregation, and the charge of the holy place, and the charge of the sons of Aaron their brethren, in the service of the house of the LORD.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


24:1    亞倫子孫的班次記在下面，亞倫的兒子是拿答，亞比戶，以利亞撒，以他瑪。
Now these are the divisions of the sons of Aaron. The sons of Aaron; Nadab, and Abihu, Eleazar, and Ithamar.

24:2    拿答，亞比戶死在他們父親之先，沒有留下兒子。故此，以利亞撒，以他瑪供祭司的職分。
But Nadab and Abihu died before their father, and had no children: therefore Eleazar and Ithamar executed the priest's office.

24:3    以利亞撒的子孫撒督和以他瑪的子孫亞希米勒，同著大衛將他們的族弟兄分成班次。
And David distributed them, both Zadok of the sons of Eleazar, and Ahimelech of the sons of Ithamar, according to their offices in their service.

24:4    以利亞撒子孫中為首的比以他瑪子孫中為首的更多，分班如下，以利亞撒的子孫中有十六個族長，以他瑪的子孫中有八個族長。
And there were more chief men found of the sons of Eleazar than of the sons of Ithamar; and thus were they divided. Among the sons of Eleazar there were sixteen chief men of the house of their fathers, and eight among the sons of Ithamar according to the house of their fathers.

24:5    都掣籤分立，彼此一樣。在聖所和神面前作首領的有以利亞撒的子孫，也有以他瑪的子孫。
Thus were they divided by lot, one sort with another; for the governors of the sanctuary, and governors of the house of God, were of the sons of Eleazar, and of the sons of Ithamar.

24:6    作書記的利未人拿坦業的兒子示瑪雅在王和首領，與祭司撒督，亞比亞他的兒子亞希米勒，並祭司利未人的族長面前記錄他們的名字。在以利亞撒的子孫中取一族，在以他瑪的子孫中取一族。
And Shemaiah the son of Nethaneel the scribe, one of the Levites, wrote them before the king, and the princes, and Zadok the priest, and Ahimelech the son of Abiathar, and before the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites: one principal household being taken for Eleazar, and one taken for Ithamar.

24:7    掣籤的時候，第一掣出來的是耶何雅立，第二是耶大雅，
Now the first lot came forth to Jehoiarib, the second to Jedaiah,



24:8    第三是哈琳，第四是梭琳，
The third to Harim, the fourth to Seorim,

24:9    第五是瑪基雅，第六是米雅民，
The fifth to Malchijah, the sixth to Mijamin,

24:10    第七是哈歌斯，第八是亞比雅，
The seventh to Hakkoz, the eighth to Abijah,

24:11    第九是耶書亞，第十是示迦尼，
The ninth to Jeshuah, the tenth to Shecaniah,

24:12    第十一是以利亞實，第十二是雅金，
The eleventh to Eliashib, the twelfth to Jakim,

24:13    第十三是胡巴，第十四是耶是比押，
The thirteenth to Huppah, the fourteenth to Jeshebeab,

24:14    第十五是璧迦，第十六是音麥，
The fifteenth to Bilgah, the sixteenth to Immer,

24:15    第十七是希悉，第十八是哈闢悉，
The seventeenth to Hezir, the eighteenth to Aphses,

24:16    第十九是毗他希雅，第二十是以西結，
The nineteenth to Pethahiah, the twentieth to Jehezekel,

24:17    第二十一是雅斤，第二十二是迦末，
The one and twentieth to Jachin, the two and twentieth to Gamul,

24:18    第二十三是第來雅，第二十四是瑪西亞。
The three and twentieth to Delaiah, the four and twentieth to Maaziah.

24:19    這就是他們的班次，要照耶和華以色列的神藉他們祖宗亞倫所吩咐的條例，進入耶和華的殿辦理事務。
These were the orderings of them in their service to come into the house of the LORD, according to their manner, under Aaron their father, as the LORD God of Israel had commanded him.

24:20    利未其餘的子孫如下，暗蘭的子孫裡有書巴業。書巴業的子孫裡有耶希底亞。
And the rest of the sons of Levi were these: Of the sons of Amram; Shubael: of the sons of Shubael; Jehdeiah.

24:21    利哈比雅的子孫裡有長子伊示雅。
Concerning Rehabiah: of the sons of Rehabiah, the first was Isshiah.

24:22    以斯哈的子孫裡有示羅摩。示羅摩的子孫裡有雅哈。
Of the Izharites; Shelomoth: of the sons of Shelomoth; Jahath.

24:23    希伯倫的子孫裡有長子耶利雅，次子亞瑪利亞，三子雅哈悉，四子耶加面。
And the sons of Hebron; Jeriah the first, Amariah the second, Jahaziel the third, Jekameam the fourth.

24:24    烏薛的子孫裡有米迦。米迦的子孫裡有沙密。
Of the sons of Uzziel; Michah: of the sons of Michah; Shamir.

24:25    米迦的兄弟是伊示雅。伊示雅的子孫裡有撒迦利雅。
The brother of Michah was Isshiah: of the sons of Isshiah; Zechariah.

24:26    米拉利的兒子是抹利，母示，雅西雅。雅西雅的兒子有比挪。
The sons of Merari were Mahli and Mushi: the sons of Jaaziah; Beno.

24:27    米拉利的子孫裡有雅西雅的兒子比挪，朔含，撒刻，伊比利。
The sons of Merari by Jaaziah; Beno, and Shoham, and Zaccur, and Ibri.

24:28    抹利的兒子是以利亞撒。以利亞撒沒有兒子。
Of Mahli came Eleazar, who had no sons.

24:29    基士的子孫裡有耶拉篾。
Concerning Kish: the son of Kish was Jerahmeel.

24:30    母示的兒子是末力，以得，耶利摩。按著宗族這都是利未的子孫。
The sons also of Mushi; Mahli, and Eder, and Jerimoth. These were the sons of the Levites after the house of their fathers.

24:31    他們在大衛王和撒督，並亞希米勒與祭司利未人的族長面前掣籤，正如他們弟兄亞倫的子孫一般。各族的長者與兄弟沒有分別。
These likewise cast lots over against their brethren the sons of Aaron in the presence of David the king, and Zadok, and Ahimelech, and the chief of the fathers of the priests and Levites, even the principal fathers over against their younger brethren.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


25:1    大衛和眾首領分派亞薩，希幔，並耶杜頓的子孫彈琴，鼓瑟，敲鈸，唱歌（唱歌原文作說預言本章同）。他們供職的人數記在下面，
Moreover David and the captains of the host separated to the service of the sons of Asaph, and of Heman, and of Jeduthun, who should prophesy with harps, with psalteries, and with cymbals: and the number of the workmen according to their service was:

25:2    亞薩的兒子撒刻，約瑟，尼探雅，亞薩利拉都歸亞薩指教，遵王的旨意唱歌。
Of the sons of Asaph; Zaccur, and Joseph, and Nethaniah, and Asarelah, the sons of Asaph under the hands of Asaph, which prophesied according to the order of the king.

25:3    耶杜頓的兒子基大利，西利，耶篩亞，哈沙比雅，瑪他提雅，示每共六人，都歸他們父親耶杜頓指教，彈琴，唱歌，稱謝，頌讚耶和華。
Of Jeduthun: the sons of Jeduthun; Gedaliah, and Zeri, and Jeshaiah, Hashabiah, and Mattithiah, six, under the hands of their father Jeduthun, who prophesied with a harp, to give thanks and to praise the LORD.

25:4    希幔的兒子布基雅，瑪探雅，烏薛，細布業，耶利摩，哈拿尼雅，哈拿尼，以利亞他，基大利提，羅幔提以謝，約施比加沙，瑪羅提，何提，瑪哈秀。
Of Heman: the sons of Heman: Bukkiah, Mattaniah, Uzziel, Shebuel, and Jerimoth, Hananiah, Hanani, Eliathah, Giddalti, and Romamtiezer, Joshbekashah, Mallothi, Hothir, and Mahazioth:

25:5    這都是希幔的兒子，吹角頌讚。希幔奉神之命作王的先見。神賜給希幔十四個兒子，三個女兒，
All these were the sons of Heman the king's seer in the words of God, to lift up the horn. And God gave to Heman fourteen sons and three daughters.

25:6    都歸他們父親指教，在耶和華的殿唱歌，敲鈸，彈琴，鼓瑟，辦神殿的事務。亞薩，耶杜頓，希幔都是王所命定的。
All these were under the hands of their father for song in the house of the LORD, with cymbals, psalteries, and harps, for the service of the house of God, according to the king's order to Asaph, Jeduthun, and Heman.

25:7    他們和他們的弟兄學習頌讚耶和華。善於歌唱的共有二百八十八人。
So the number of them, with their brethren that were instructed in the songs of the LORD, even all that were cunning, was two hundred fourscore and eight.

25:8    這些人無論大小，為師的，為徒的，都一同掣籤分了班次。
And they cast lots, ward against ward, as well the small as the great, the teacher as the scholar.

25:9    掣籤的時候，第一掣出來的是亞薩的兒子約瑟。第二是基大利。他和他弟兄並兒子共十二人。
Now the first lot came forth for Asaph to Joseph: the second to Gedaliah, who with his brethren and sons were twelve:

25:10    第三是撒刻。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The third to Zaccur, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:11    第四是伊洗利。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The fourth to Izri, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:12    第五是尼探雅。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The fifth to Nethaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:13    第六是布基雅。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The sixth to Bukkiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:14    第七是耶薩利拉。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The seventh to Jesharelah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:15    第八是耶篩亞。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The eighth to Jeshaiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:16    第九是瑪探雅。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The ninth to Mattaniah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:17    第十是示每。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The tenth to Shimei, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:18    第十一是亞薩烈。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The eleventh to Azareel, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:19    第十二是哈沙比雅。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The twelfth to Hashabiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:20    第十三是書巴業。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The thirteenth to Shubael, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:21    第十四是瑪他提雅。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The fourteenth to Mattithiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:22    第十五是耶利摩。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The fifteenth to Jeremoth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:23    第十六是哈拿尼雅。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The sixteenth to Hananiah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:24    第十七是約施比加沙。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The seventeenth to Joshbekashah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:25    第十八是哈拿尼。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The eighteenth to Hanani, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:26    第十九是瑪羅提。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The nineteenth to Mallothi, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:27    第二十是以利亞他。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The twentieth to Eliathah, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:28    第二十一是何提。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The one and twentieth to Hothir, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:29    第二十二是基大利提。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The two and twentieth to Giddalti, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:30    第二十三是瑪哈秀。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The three and twentieth to Mahazioth, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve:

25:31    第二十四是羅幔提以謝。他和他兒子並弟兄共十二人。
The four and twentieth to Romamtiezer, he, his sons, and his brethren, were twelve.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


26:1    守門的班次記在下面，可拉族亞薩的子孫中，有可利的兒子米施利米雅。
Concerning the divisions of the porters: Of the Korhites was Meshelemiah the son of Kore, of the sons of Asaph.

26:2    米施利米雅的長子是撒迦利亞，次子是耶疊，三子是西巴第雅，四子是耶提聶，
And the sons of Meshelemiah were, Zechariah the firstborn, Jediael the second, Zebadiah the third, Jathniel the fourth,

26:3    五子是以攔，六子是約哈難，七子是以利約乃。
Elam the fifth, Jehohanan the sixth, Elioenai the seventh.

26:4    俄別以東的長子是示瑪雅，次子是約薩拔，三子是約亞，四子是沙甲，五子是拿坦業，
Moreover the sons of Obededom were, Shemaiah the firstborn, Jehozabad the second, Joah the third, and Sacar the fourth, and Nethaneel the fifth,

26:5    六子是亞米利，七子是以薩迦，八子是毗烏利太，因為神賜福與俄別以東。
Ammiel the sixth, Issachar the seventh, Peulthai the eighth: for God blessed him.

26:6    他的兒子示瑪雅有幾個兒子，都是大能的壯士，掌管父親的家。
Also unto Shemaiah his son were sons born, that ruled throughout the house of their father: for they were mighty men of valour.

26:7    示瑪雅的兒子是俄得尼，利法益，俄備得，以利薩巴。以利薩巴的弟兄是壯士，還有以利戶和西瑪迦。
The sons of Shemaiah; Othni, and Rephael, and Obed, Elzabad, whose brethren were strong men, Elihu, and Semachiah.

26:8    這都是俄別以東的子孫，他們和他們的兒子並弟兄，都是善於辦事的壯士。俄別以東的子孫共六十二人。
All these of the sons of Obededom: they and their sons and their brethren, able men for strength for the service, were threescore and two of Obededom.

26:9    米施利米雅的兒子和弟兄都是壯士，共十八人。
And Meshelemiah had sons and brethren, strong men, eighteen.

26:10    米拉利子孫何薩有幾個兒子，長子是申利，他原不是長子，是他父親立他作長子。
Also Hosah, of the children of Merari, had sons; Simri the chief, (for though he was not the firstborn, yet his father made him the chief;)

26:11    次子是希勒家，三子是底巴利雅，四子是撒迦利亞。何薩的兒子並弟兄共十三人。
Hilkiah the second, Tebaliah the third, Zechariah the fourth: all the sons and brethren of Hosah were thirteen.

26:12    這些人都是守門的班長，與他們的弟兄一同在耶和華殿裡按班供職。
Among these were the divisions of the porters, even among the chief men, having wards one against another, to minister in the house of the LORD.

26:13    他們無論大小，都按著宗族掣籤分守各門。
And they cast lots, as well the small as the great, according to the house of their fathers, for every gate.

26:14    掣籤守東門的是示利米雅。他的兒子撒迦利亞是精明的謀士，掣籤守北門。
And the lot eastward fell to Shelemiah. Then for Zechariah his son, a wise counsellor, they cast lots; and his lot came out northward.

26:15    俄別以東守南門，他的兒子守庫房。
To Obededom southward; and to his sons the house of Asuppim.

26:16    書聘與何薩守西門，在靠近沙利基門，通著往上去的街道上，班與班相對。
To Shuppim and Hosah the lot came forth westward, with the gate Shallecheth, by the causeway of the going up, ward against ward.

26:17    每日東門有六個利未人，北門有四個，南門有四個，庫房有兩個，又有兩個輪班替換。
Eastward were six Levites, northward four a day, southward four a day, and toward Asuppim two and two.

26:18    在西面街道上有四個，在遊廊上有兩個。
At Parbar westward, four at the causeway, and two at Parbar.

26:19    以上是可拉子孫和米拉利子孫守門的班次。
These are the divisions of the porters among the sons of Kore, and among the sons of Merari.

26:20    利未子孫中有亞希雅掌管神殿的府庫和聖物的府庫。
And of the Levites, Ahijah was over the treasures of the house of God, and over the treasures of the dedicated things.

26:21    革順族，拉但子孫裡，作族長的是革順族拉但的子孫耶希伊利。
As concerning the sons of Laadan; the sons of the Gershonite Laadan, chief fathers, even of Laadan the Gershonite, were Jehieli.

26:22    耶希伊利的兒子西坦和他兄弟約珥掌管耶和華殿裡的府庫。
The sons of Jehieli; Zetham, and Joel his brother, which were over the treasures of the house of the LORD.

26:23    暗蘭族，以斯哈族，希伯倫族，烏洩族也有職分。
Of the Amramites, and the Izharites, the Hebronites, and the Uzzielites:

26:24    摩西的孫子，革舜的兒子細布業掌管府庫。
And Shebuel the son of Gershom, the son of Moses, was ruler of the treasures.

26:25    還有他的弟兄以利以謝。以利以謝的兒子是利哈比雅。利哈比雅的兒子是耶篩亞。耶篩亞的兒子是約蘭。約蘭的兒子是細基利。細基利的兒子是示羅密。
And his brethren by Eliezer; Rehabiah his son, and Jeshaiah his son, and Joram his son, and Zichri his son, and Shelomith his son.

26:26    這示羅密和他的弟兄掌管府庫的聖物，就是大衛王和眾族長，千夫長，百夫長，並軍長所分別為聖的物。
Which Shelomith and his brethren were over all the treasures of the dedicated things, which David the king, and the chief fathers, the captains over thousands and hundreds, and the captains of the host, had dedicated.

26:27    他們將爭戰時所奪的財物分別為聖，以備修造耶和華的殿。
Out of the spoils won in battles did they dedicate to maintain the house of the LORD.

26:28    先見撒母耳，基士的兒子掃羅，尼珥的兒子押尼珥，洗魯雅的兒子約押所分別為聖的物都歸示羅密和他的弟兄掌管。
And all that Samuel the seer, and Saul the son of Kish, and Abner the son of Ner, and Joab the son of Zeruiah, had dedicated; and whosoever had dedicated any thing, it was under the hand of Shelomith, and of his brethren.

26:29    以斯哈族有基拿尼雅和他眾子作官長和士師，管理以色列的外事。
Of the Izharites, Chenaniah and his sons were for the outward business over Israel, for officers and judges.

26:30    希伯倫族有哈沙比雅和他弟兄一千七百人，都是壯士，在約旦河西，以色列地辦理耶和華與王的事。
And of the Hebronites, Hashabiah and his brethren, men of valour, a thousand and seven hundred, were officers among them of Israel on this side Jordan westward in all the business of the LORD, and in the service of the king.



26:31    希伯倫族中有耶利雅作族長。大衛作王第四十年，在基列的雅謝，從這族中尋得大能的勇士。
Among the Hebronites was Jerijah the chief, even among the Hebronites, according to the generations of his fathers. In the fortieth year of the reign of David they were sought for, and there were found among them mighty men of valour at Jazer of Gilead.

26:32    耶利雅的弟兄有二千七百人，都是壯士，且作族長。大衛王派他們在流便支派，迦得支派，瑪拿西半支派中辦理神和王的事。
And his brethren, men of valour, were two thousand and seven hundred chief fathers, whom king David made rulers over the Reubenites, the Gadites, and the half tribe of Manasseh, for every matter pertaining to God, and affairs of the king.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


27:1    以色列人的族長，千夫長，百夫長，和官長都分定班次，每班是二萬四千人，週年按月輪流，替換出入服事王。
Now the children of Israel after their number, to wit, the chief fathers and captains of thousands and hundreds, and their officers that served the king in any matter of the courses, which came in and went out month by month throughout all the months of the year, of every course were twenty and four thousand.

27:2    正月第一班的班長是撒巴第業的兒子雅朔班。他班內有二萬四千人。
Over the first course for the first month was Jashobeam the son of Zabdiel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:3    他是法勒斯的子孫，統管正月班的一切軍長。
Of the children of Perez was the chief of all the captains of the host for the first month.

27:4    二月的班長是亞雜湊人朵代，還有副官密基羅。他班內有二萬四千人。
And over the course of the second month was Dodai an Ahohite, and of his course was Mikloth also the ruler: in his course likewise were twenty and four thousand.

27:5    三月第三班的班長（原文作軍長下同）是祭司耶何耶大的兒子比拿雅。他班內有二萬四千人。
The third captain of the host for the third month was Benaiah the son of Jehoiada, a chief priest: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:6    這比拿雅是那三十人中的勇士，管理那三十人。他班內又有他兒子暗米薩拔。
This is that Benaiah, who was mighty among the thirty, and above the thirty: and in his course was Ammizabad his son.

27:7    四月第四班的班長是約押的兄弟亞撒黑。接續他的是他兒子西巴第雅。他班內有二萬四千人。
The fourth captain for the fourth month was Asahel the brother of Joab, and Zebadiah his son after him: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:8    五月第五班的班長是伊斯拉人珊合。他班內有二萬四千人。
The fifth captain for the fifth month was Shamhuth the Izrahite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:9    六月第六班的班長是提哥亞人益吉的兒子以拉。他班內有二萬四千人。
The sixth captain for the sixth month was Ira the son of Ikkesh the Tekoite: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:10    七月第七班的班長是以法蓮族比倫人希利斯。他班內有二萬四千人。
The seventh captain for the seventh month was Helez the Pelonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:11    八月第八班的班長是謝拉族戶沙人西比該。他班內有二萬四千人。
The eighth captain for the eighth month was Sibbecai the Hushathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:12    九月第九班的班長是便雅憫族亞拿突人亞比以謝。他班內有二萬四千人。
The ninth captain for the ninth month was Abiezer the Anetothite, of the Benjamites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:13    十月第十班的班長是謝拉族尼陀法人瑪哈萊。他班內有二萬四千人。
The tenth captain for the tenth month was Maharai the Netophathite, of the Zarhites: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:14    十一月第十一班的班長是以法蓮族比拉頓人比拿雅。他班內有二萬四千人。
The eleventh captain for the eleventh month was Benaiah the Pirathonite, of the children of Ephraim: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:15    十二月第十二班的班長是俄陀聶族尼陀法人黑玳。他班內有二萬四千人。
The twelfth captain for the twelfth month was Heldai the Netophathite, of Othniel: and in his course were twenty and four thousand.

27:16    管理以色列眾支派的記在下面，管流便人的是細基利的兒子以利以謝。管西緬人的是瑪迦的兒子示法提雅。
Furthermore over the tribes of Israel: the ruler of the Reubenites was Eliezer the son of Zichri: of the Simeonites, Shephatiah the son of Maachah:

27:17    管利未人的是基母利的兒子哈沙比雅。管亞倫子孫的是撒督。
Of the Levites, Hashabiah the son of Kemuel: of the Aaronites, Zadok:

27:18    管猶大人的是大衛的一個哥哥以利戶，管以薩迦人的是米迦勒的兒子暗利。
Of Judah, Elihu, one of the brethren of David: of Issachar, Omri the son of Michael:

27:19    管西布倫人的是俄巴第雅的兒子伊施瑪雅。管拿弗他利人的是亞斯列的兒子耶利摩。
Of Zebulun, Ishmaiah the son of Obadiah: of Naphtali, Jerimoth the son of Azriel:

27:20    管以法蓮人的是阿撒細雅的兒子何細亞。管瑪拿西半支派的是毗大雅的兒子約珥。
Of the children of Ephraim, Hoshea the son of Azaziah: of the half tribe of Manasseh, Joel the son of Pedaiah:

27:21    管基列地瑪拿西那半支派的是撒迦利亞的兒子易多。管便雅憫人的是押尼珥的兒子雅西業。
Of the half tribe of Manasseh in Gilead, Iddo the son of Zechariah: of Benjamin, Jaasiel the son of Abner:

27:22    管但人的是耶羅罕的兒子亞薩列。以上是以色列眾支派的首領。
Of Dan, Azareel the son of Jeroham. These were the princes of the tribes of Israel.

27:23    以色列人二十歲以內的，大衛沒有記其數目。因耶和華曾應許說，必加增以色列人如天上的星那樣多。
But David took not the number of them from twenty years old and under: because the LORD had said he would increase Israel like to the stars of the heavens.

27:24    洗魯雅的兒子約押動手數點，當時耶和華的烈怒臨到以色列人。因此，沒有點完，數目也沒有寫在大衛王記上。
Joab the son of Zeruiah began to number, but he finished not, because there fell wrath for it against Israel; neither was the number put in the account of the chronicles of king David.

27:25    掌管王府庫的是亞疊的兒子押斯馬威。掌管田野城邑村莊保障之倉庫的是烏西雅的兒子約拿單。
And over the king's treasures was Azmaveth the son of Adiel: and over the storehouses in the fields, in the cities, and in the villages, and in the castles, was Jehonathan the son of Uzziah:

27:26    掌管耕田種地的是基綠的兒子以斯利。
And over them that did the work of the field for tillage of the ground was Ezri the son of Chelub:

27:27    掌管葡萄園的是拉瑪人示每。掌管葡萄園酒窖的是實弗米人撒巴底。
And over the vineyards was Shimei the Ramathite: over the increase of the vineyards for the wine cellars was Zabdi the Shiphmite:

27:28    掌管高原橄欖樹和桑樹的是基第利人巴勒哈南。掌管油庫的是約阿施。
And over the olive trees and the sycomore trees that were in the low plains was Baalhanan the Gederite: and over the cellars of oil was Joash:

27:29    掌管沙崙牧放牛群的是沙崙人施提賚。掌管山谷牧養牛群的是亞第賚的兒子沙法。
And over the herds that fed in Sharon was Shitrai the Sharonite: and over the herds that were in the valleys was Shaphat the son of Adlai:

27:30    掌管駝群的是以實瑪利人阿比勒。掌管驢群的是米侖人耶希底亞。掌管羊群的是夏甲人雅悉。
Over the camels also was Obil the Ishmaelite: and over the asses was Jehdeiah the Meronothite:

27:31    這都是給大衛王掌管產業的。
And over the flocks was Jaziz the Hagerite. All these were the rulers of the substance which was king David's.

27:32    大衛的叔叔約拿單作謀士。這人有智慧，又作書記。哈摩尼的兒子耶歇作王眾子的師傅。
Also Jonathan David's uncle was a counsellor, a wise man, and a scribe: and Jehiel the son of Hachmoni was with the king's sons:

27:33    亞希多弗也作王的謀士。亞基人戶篩作王的陪伴。
And Ahithophel was the king's counsellor: and Hushai the Archite was the king's companion:

27:34    亞希多弗之後，有比拿雅的兒子耶何耶大和亞比亞他接續他作謀士。約押作王的元帥。
And after Ahithophel was Jehoiada the son of Benaiah, and Abiathar: and the general of the king's army was Joab.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


28:1    大衛招聚以色列各支派的首領和輪班服事王的軍長，與千夫長，百夫長，掌管王和王子產業牲畜的，並太監，以及大能的勇士，都到耶路撒冷來。
And David assembled all the princes of Israel, the princes of the tribes, and the captains of the companies that ministered to the king by course, and the captains over the thousands, and captains over the hundreds, and the stewards over all the substance and possession of the king, and of his sons, with the officers, and with the mighty men, and with all the valiant men, unto Jerusalem.

28:2    大衛王就站起來，說，我的弟兄，我的百姓阿，你們當聽我言，我心裡本想建造殿宇，安放耶和華的約櫃，作為我神的腳凳。我已經預備建造的材料。
Then David the king stood up upon his feet, and said, Hear me, my brethren, and my people: As for me, I had in mine heart to build an house of rest for the ark of the covenant of the LORD, and for the footstool of our God, and had made ready for the building:

28:3    只是神對我說，你不可為我的名建造殿宇。因你是戰士，流了人的血。
But God said unto me, Thou shalt not build an house for my name, because thou hast been a man of war, and hast shed blood.

28:4    然而，耶和華以色列的神在我父的全家揀選我作以色列的王，直到永遠。因他揀選猶大為首領。在猶大支派中揀選我父家，在我父的眾子裡喜悅我，立我作以色列眾人的王。
Howbeit the LORD God of Israel chose me before all the house of my father to be king over Israel for ever: for he hath chosen Judah to be the ruler; and of the house of Judah, the house of my father; and among the sons of my father he liked me to make me king over all Israel:

28:5    耶和華賜我許多兒子，在我兒子中揀選所羅門坐耶和華的國位，治理以色列人。
And of all my sons, (for the LORD hath given me many sons,) he hath chosen Solomon my son to sit upon the throne of the kingdom of the LORD over Israel.

28:6    耶和華對我說，你兒子所羅門必建造我的殿和院宇。因為我揀選他作我的子，我也必作他的父。
And he said unto me, Solomon thy son, he shall build my house and my courts: for I have chosen him to be my son, and I will be his father.

28:7    他若恆久遵行我的誡命典章如今日一樣，我就必堅定他的國位，直到永遠。
Moreover I will establish his kingdom for ever, if he be constant to do my commandments and my judgments, as at this day.

28:8    現今在耶和華的會中，以色列眾人眼前所說的，我們的神也聽見了。你們應當尋求耶和華你們神的一切誡命，謹守遵行，如此你們可以承受這美地，遺留給你們的子孫，永遠為業。
Now therefore in the sight of all Israel the congregation of the LORD, and in the audience of our God, keep and seek for all the commandments of the LORD your God: that ye may possess this good land, and leave it for an inheritance for your children after you for ever.

28:9    我兒所羅門哪，你當認識耶和華你父的神，誠心樂意地事奉他。因為他鑑察眾人的心，知道一切心思意念。你若尋求他，他必使你尋見。你若離棄他，他必永遠丟棄你。
And thou, Solomon my son, know thou the God of thy father, and serve him with a perfect heart and with a willing mind: for the LORD searcheth all hearts, and understandeth all the imaginations of the thoughts: if thou seek him, he will be found of thee; but if thou forsake him, he will cast thee off for ever.

28:10    你當謹慎，因耶和華揀選你建造殿宇作為聖所。你當剛強去行。
Take heed now; for the LORD hath chosen thee to build an house for the sanctuary: be strong, and do it.

28:11    大衛將殿的遊廊，旁屋，府庫，樓房，內殿，和施恩所的樣式指示他兒子所羅門，
Then David gave to Solomon his son the pattern of the porch, and of the houses thereof, and of the treasuries thereof, and of the upper chambers thereof, and of the inner parlours thereof, and of the place of the mercy seat,

28:12    又將被靈感動所得的樣式，就是耶和華神殿的院子，周圍的房屋，殿的府庫，和聖物府庫的一切樣式都指示他。
And the pattern of all that he had by the spirit, of the courts of the house of the LORD, and of all the chambers round about, of the treasuries of the house of God, and of the treasuries of the dedicated things:

28:13    又指示他祭司和利未人的班次與耶和華殿裡各樣的工作，並耶和華殿裡一切器皿的樣式，
Also for the courses of the priests and the Levites, and for all the work of the service of the house of the LORD, and for all the vessels of service in the house of the LORD.

28:14    以及各樣應用金器的分兩和各樣應用銀器的分兩，
He gave of gold by weight for things of gold, for all instruments of all manner of service; silver also for all instruments of silver by weight, for all instruments of every kind of service:

28:15    金燈臺和金燈的分兩，銀燈臺和銀燈的分兩，輕重各都合宜。
Even the weight for the candlesticks of gold, and for their lamps of gold, by weight for every candlestick, and for the lamps thereof: and for the candlesticks of silver by weight, both for the candlestick, and also for the lamps thereof, according to the use of every candlestick.

28:16    陳設餅金桌子的分兩，銀桌子的分兩，
And by weight he gave gold for the tables of shewbread, for every table; and likewise silver for the tables of silver:

28:17    精金的肉叉子，盤子，和爵的分兩，各金碗與各銀碗的分兩，
Also pure gold for the fleshhooks, and the bowls, and the cups: and for the golden basons he gave gold by weight for every bason; and likewise silver by weight for every bason of silver:

28:18    精金香壇的分兩，並用金子作基路伯（原文作用金子作車式的基路伯）。基路伯張開翅膀，遮掩耶和華的約櫃。
And for the altar of incense refined gold by weight; and gold for the pattern of the chariot of the cherubims, that spread out their wings, and covered the ark of the covenant of the LORD.

28:19    大衛說，這一切工作的樣式都是耶和華用手劃出來使我明白的。
All this, said David, the LORD made me understand in writing by his hand upon me, even all the works of this pattern.

28:20    大衛又對他兒子所羅門說，你當剛強壯膽去行。不要懼怕，也不要驚惶。因為耶和華神就是我的神，與你同在。他必不撇下你，也不丟棄你，直到耶和華殿的工作都完畢了。
And David said to Solomon his son, Be strong and of good courage, and do it: fear not, nor be dismayed: for the LORD God, even my God, will be with thee; he will not fail thee, nor forsake thee, until thou hast finished all the work for the service of the house of the LORD.

28:21    有祭司和利未人的各班，為要辦理神殿各樣的事，又有靈巧的人在各樣的工作上樂意幫助你。並有眾首領和眾民一心聽從你的命令。
And, behold, the courses of the priests and the Levites, even they shall be with thee for all the service of the house of God: and there shall be with thee for all manner of workmanship every willing skilful man, for any manner of service: also the princes and all the people will be wholly at thy commandment.




舊約 -- 歷代記上(1 Chronicles) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 29 章 )    　


29:1    大衛王對會眾說，我兒子所羅門是神特選的，還年幼嬌嫩。這工程甚大，因這殿不是為人，乃是為耶和華神建造的。
Furthermore David the king said unto all the congregation, Solomon my son, whom alone God hath chosen, is yet young and tender, and the work is great: for the palace is not for man, but for the LORD God.

29:2    我為我神的殿已經盡力，預備金子作金器，銀子作銀器，銅作銅器，鐵作鐵器，木作木器，還有紅瑪瑙可鑲嵌的寶石，彩石和一切的寶石，並許多漢白玉。
Now I have prepared with all my might for the house of my God the gold for things to be made of gold, and the silver for things of silver, and the brass for things of brass, the iron for things of iron, and wood for things of wood; onyx stones, and stones to be set, glistering stones, and of divers colours, and all manner of precious stones, and marble stones in abundance.

29:3    且因我心中愛慕我神的殿，就在預備建造聖殿的材料之外，又將我自己積蓄的金銀獻上，建造我神的殿，
Moreover, because I have set my affection to the house of my God, I have of mine own proper good, of gold and silver, which I have given to the house of my God, over and above all that I have prepared for the holy house,

29:4    就是俄斐金三千他連得，精鏈的銀子七千他連得，以貼殿牆。
Even three thousand talents of gold, of the gold of Ophir, and seven thousand talents of refined silver, to overlay the walls of the houses withal:

29:5    金子作金器，銀子作銀器，並藉匠人的手製造一切。今日有誰樂意將自己獻給耶和華呢。
The gold for things of gold, and the silver for things of silver, and for all manner of work to be made by the hands of artificers. And who then is willing to consecrate his service this day unto the LORD?

29:6    於是，眾族長和以色列各支派的首領，千夫長，百夫長，並監管王工的官長，都樂意獻上。
Then the chief of the fathers and princes of the tribes of Israel, and the captains of thousands and of hundreds, with the rulers of the king's work, offered willingly,

29:7    他們為神殿的使用獻上金子五千他連得零一萬達利克，銀子一萬他連得，銅一萬八千他連得，鐵十萬他連得。
And gave for the service of the house of God of gold five thousand talents and ten thousand drams, and of silver ten thousand talents, and of brass eighteen thousand talents, and one hundred thousand talents of iron.

29:8    凡有寶石的都交給革順人耶歇，送入耶和華殿的府庫。
And they with whom precious stones were found gave them to the treasure of the house of the LORD, by the hand of Jehiel the Gershonite.

29:9    因這些人誠心樂意獻給耶和華，百姓就歡喜，大衛王也大大歡喜。
Then the people rejoiced, for that they offered willingly, because with perfect heart they offered willingly to the LORD: and David the king also rejoiced with great joy.

29:10    所以，大衛在會眾面前稱頌耶和華說，耶和華我們的父，以色列的神是應當稱頌，直到永永遠遠的。
Wherefore David blessed the LORD before all the congregation: and David said, Blessed be thou, LORD God of Israel our father, for ever and ever.

29:11    耶和華阿，尊大，能力，榮耀，強勝，威嚴都是你的。凡天上地下的都是你的。國度也是你的，並且你為至高，為萬有之首。
Thine, O LORD, is the greatness, and the power, and the glory, and the victory, and the majesty: for all that is in the heaven and in the earth is thine; thine is the kingdom, O LORD, and thou art exalted as head above all.

29:12    豐富尊榮都從你而來，你也治理萬物。在你手裡有大能大力，使人尊大強盛都出於你。
Both riches and honour come of thee, and thou reignest over all; and in thine hand is power and might; and in thine hand it is to make great, and to give strength unto all.

29:13    我們的神阿，現在我們稱謝你，讚美你榮耀之名。
Now therefore, our God, we thank thee, and praise thy glorious name.

29:14    我算什麼，我的民算什麼，竟能如此樂意奉獻。因為萬物都從你而來，我們把從你而得的獻給你。
But who am I, and what is my people, that we should be able to offer so willingly after this sort? for all things come of thee, and of thine own have we given thee.

29:15    我們在你面前是客旅，是寄居的，與我們列祖一樣。我們在世的日子如影兒，不能長存（或作沒有長存的指望）。
For we are strangers before thee, and sojourners, as were all our fathers: our days on the earth are as a shadow, and there is none abiding.

29:16    耶和華我們的神阿，我們預備這許多材料，要為你的聖名建造殿宇，都是從你而來，都是屬你的。
O LORD our God, all this store that we have prepared to build thee an house for thine holy name cometh of thine hand, and is all thine own.

29:17    我的神阿，我知道你察驗人心，喜悅正直。我以正直的心樂意獻上這一切物。現在我喜歡見你的民在這裡都樂意奉獻與你。
I know also, my God, that thou triest the heart, and hast pleasure in uprightness. As for me, in the uprightness of mine heart I have willingly offered all these things: and now have I seen with joy thy people, which are present here, to offer willingly unto thee.

29:18    耶和華我們列祖亞伯拉罕，以撒，以色列的神阿，求你使你的民常存這樣的心思意念，堅定他們的心歸向你，
O LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and of Israel, our fathers, keep this for ever in the imagination of the thoughts of the heart of thy people, and prepare their heart unto thee:

29:19    又求你賜我兒子所羅門誠實的心，遵守你的命令，法度，律例，成就這一切的事，用我所預備的建造殿宇。
And give unto Solomon my son a perfect heart, to keep thy commandments, thy testimonies, and thy statutes, and to do all these things, and to build the palace, for the which I have made provision.

29:20    大衛對全會眾說，你們應當稱頌耶和華你們的神。於是會眾稱頌耶和華他們列祖的神，低頭拜耶和華與王。
And David said to all the congregation, Now bless the LORD your God. And all the congregation blessed the LORD God of their fathers, and bowed down their heads, and worshipped the LORD, and the king.

29:21    次日，他們向耶和華獻平安祭和燔祭，就是獻公牛一千隻，公綿羊一千隻，羊羔一千隻，並同獻的奠祭。又為以色列眾人獻許多的祭。那日，他們在耶和華面前吃喝，大大歡樂。
And they sacrificed sacrifices unto the LORD, and offered burnt offerings unto the LORD, on the morrow after that day, even a thousand bullocks, a thousand rams, and a thousand lambs, with their drink offerings, and sacrifices in abundance for all Israel:

29:22    他們奉耶和華的命再膏大衛的兒子所羅門作王，又膏撒督作祭司。
And did eat and drink before the LORD on that day with great gladness. And they made Solomon the son of David king the second time, and anointed him unto the LORD to be the chief governor, and Zadok to be priest.

29:23    於是所羅門坐在耶和華所賜的位上，接續他父親大衛作王，萬事亨通。以色列眾人也都聽從他。
Then Solomon sat on the throne of the LORD as king instead of David his father, and prospered; and all Israel obeyed him.

29:24    眾首領和勇士，並大衛王的眾子，都順服所羅門王。
And all the princes, and the mighty men, and all the sons likewise of king David, submitted themselves unto Solomon the king.

29:25    耶和華使所羅門在以色列眾人眼前甚為尊大，極其威嚴，勝過在他以前的以色列王。
And the LORD magnified Solomon exceedingly in the sight of all Israel, and bestowed upon him such royal majesty as had not been on any king before him in Israel.

29:26    耶西的兒子大衛作以色列眾人的王，
Thus David the son of Jesse reigned over all Israel.

29:27    作王共四十年，在希伯侖作王七年，在耶路撒冷作王三十三年。
And the time that he reigned over Israel was forty years; seven years reigned he in Hebron, and thirty and three years reigned he in Jerusalem.

29:28    他年紀老邁，日子滿足，享受豐富，尊榮，就死了。他兒子所羅門接續他作王。
And he died in a good old age, full of days, riches, and honour: and Solomon his son reigned in his stead.

29:29    大衛王始終的事都寫在先見撒母耳的書上和先知拿單並先見迦得的書上。
Now the acts of David the king, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Samuel the seer, and in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the book of Gad the seer,

29:30    他的國事和他的勇力，以及他和以色列並列國所經過的事都寫在這書上。
With all his reign and his might, and the times that went over him, and over Israel, and over all the kingdoms of the countries.




