舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


1:1    大衛的兒子所羅門國位堅固。耶和華他的神與他同在，使他甚為尊大。
And Solomon the son of David was strengthened in his kingdom, and the LORD his God was with him, and magnified him exceedingly.

1:2    所羅門吩咐以色列眾人，就是千夫長，百夫長，審判官，首領與族長都來。
Then Solomon spake unto all Israel, to the captains of thousands and of hundreds, and to the judges, and to every governor in all Israel, the chief of the fathers.

1:3    所羅門和會眾都往基遍的邱壇去，因那裡有神的會幕，就是耶和華僕人摩西在曠野所製造的。
So Solomon, and all the congregation with him, went to the high place that was at Gibeon; for there was the tabernacle of the congregation of God, which Moses the servant of the LORD had made in the wilderness.

1:4    只是神的約櫃，大衛已經從基列耶琳搬到他所預備的地方，因他曾在耶路撒冷為約櫃支搭了帳幕，
But the ark of God had David brought up from Kirjathjearim to the place which David had prepared for it: for he had pitched a tent for it at Jerusalem.

1:5    並且戶珥的孫子，烏利的兒子比撒列所造的銅壇也在基遍耶和華的會幕前。所羅門和會眾都就近壇前。
Moreover the brasen altar, that Bezaleel the son of Uri, the son of Hur, had made, he put before the tabernacle of the LORD: and Solomon and the congregation sought unto it.

1:6    所羅門上到耶和華面前會幕的銅壇那裡，獻一千犧牲為燔祭。
And Solomon went up thither to the brasen altar before the LORD, which was at the tabernacle of the congregation, and offered a thousand burnt offerings upon it.

1:7    當夜，神向所羅門顯現，對他說，你願我賜你什麼，你可以求。
In that night did God appear unto Solomon, and said unto him, Ask what I shall give thee.

1:8    所羅門對神說，你曾向我父大衛大施慈愛，使我接續他作王。
And Solomon said unto God, Thou hast shewed great mercy unto David my father, and hast made me to reign in his stead.

1:9    耶和華神阿，現在求你成就向我父大衛所應許的話。因你立我作這民的王，他們如同地上塵沙那樣多。
Now, O LORD God, let thy promise unto David my father be established: for thou hast made me king over a people like the dust of the earth in multitude.

1:10    求你賜我智慧聰明，我好在這民前出入。不然，誰能判斷這眾多的民呢。
Give me now wisdom and knowledge, that I may go out and come in before this people: for who can judge this thy people, that is so great?

1:11    神對所羅門說，我已立你作我民的王。你既有這心意，並不求資財，豐富，尊榮，也不求滅絕那恨你之人的性命，又不求大壽數，只求智慧聰明好判斷我的民。
And God said to Solomon, Because this was in thine heart, and thou hast not asked riches, wealth, or honour, nor the life of thine enemies, neither yet hast asked long life; but hast asked wisdom and knowledge for thyself, that thou mayest judge my people, over whom I have made thee king:

1:12    我必賜你智慧聰明，也必賜你資財，豐富，尊榮。在你以前的列王都沒有這樣，在你以後也必沒有這樣的。
Wisdom and knowledge is granted unto thee; and I will give thee riches, and wealth, and honour, such as none of the kings have had that have been before thee, neither shall there any after thee have the like.

1:13    於是，所羅門從基遍邱壇會幕前回到耶路撒冷，治理以色列人。
Then Solomon came from his journey to the high place that was at Gibeon to Jerusalem, from before the tabernacle of the congregation, and reigned over Israel.

1:14    所羅門聚集戰車馬兵，有戰車一千四百輛，馬兵一萬二千名，安置在屯車的城邑和耶路撒冷，就是王那裡。
And Solomon gathered chariots and horsemen: and he had a thousand and four hundred chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen, which he placed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.

1:15    王在耶路撒冷使金銀多如石頭，香柏木多如高原的桑樹。
And the king made silver and gold at Jerusalem as plenteous as stones, and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in the vale for abundance.

1:16    所羅門的馬是從埃及帶來的，是王的商人一群一群按著定價買來的。
And Solomon had horses brought out of Egypt, and linen yarn: the king's merchants received the linen yarn at a price.

1:17    他們從埃及買來的車，每輛價銀七百舍客勒，馬每匹一百五十舍客勒。赫人諸王和亞蘭諸王所買的車馬，也是按這價值經他們手買來的。
And they fetched up, and brought forth out of Egypt a chariot for six hundred shekels of silver, and an horse for an hundred and fifty: and so brought they out horses for all the kings of the Hittites, and for the kings of Syria, by their means.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


2:1    所羅門定意要為耶和華的名建造殿宇，又為自己的國建造宮室。
And Solomon determined to build an house for the name of the LORD, and an house for his kingdom.

2:2    所羅門就挑選七萬扛抬的，八萬在山上鑿石頭的，三千六百督工的。
And Solomon told out threescore and ten thousand men to bear burdens, and fourscore thousand to hew in the mountain, and three thousand and six hundred to oversee them.

2:3    所羅門差人去見推羅王希蘭，說，你曾運香柏木與我父大衛建宮居住，求你也這樣待我。
And Solomon sent to Huram the king of Tyre, saying, As thou didst deal with David my father, and didst send him cedars to build him an house to dwell therein, even so deal with me.

2:4    我要為耶和華我神的名建造殿宇，分別為聖獻給他，在他面前焚燒美香，常擺陳設餅，每早晚，安息日，月朔，並耶和華我們神所定的節期獻燔祭。這是以色列人永遠的定例。
Behold, I build an house to the name of the LORD my God, to dedicate it to him, and to burn before him sweet incense, and for the continual shewbread, and for the burnt offerings morning and evening, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts of the LORD our God. This is an ordinance for ever to Israel.

2:5    我所要建造的殿宇甚大。因為我們的神至大，超乎諸神。
And the house which I build is great: for great is our God above all gods.

2:6    天和天上的天，尚且不足他居住的，誰能為他建造殿宇呢。我是誰。能為他建造殿宇嗎。不過在他面前燒香而已。
But who is able to build him an house, seeing the heaven and heaven of heavens cannot contain him? who am I then, that I should build him an house, save only to burn sacrifice before him?

2:7    現在求你差一個巧匠來，就是善用金，銀，銅，鐵，和紫色，硃紅色，藍色線，並精於雕刻之工的巧匠，與我父大衛在猶大和耶路撒冷所預備的巧匠一同作工。
Send me now therefore a man cunning to work in gold, and in silver, and in brass, and in iron, and in purple, and crimson, and blue, and that can skill to grave with the cunning men that are with me in Judah and in Jerusalem, whom David my father did provide.

2:8    又求你從黎巴嫩運些香柏木，松木，檀香木到我這裡來，因我知道你的僕人善於砍伐黎巴嫩的樹木。我的僕人也必與你的僕人同工。
Send me also cedar trees, fir trees, and algum trees, out of Lebanon: for I know that thy servants can skill to cut timber in Lebanon; and, behold, my servants shall be with thy servants,

2:9    這樣，可以給我預備許多的木料，因我要建造的殿宇高大出奇。
Even to prepare me timber in abundance: for the house which I am about to build shall be wonderful great.

2:10    你的僕人砍伐樹木，我必給他們打好了的小麥二萬歌珥，大麥二萬歌珥，酒二萬吧特，油二萬吧特。
And, behold, I will give to thy servants, the hewers that cut timber, twenty thousand measures of beaten wheat, and twenty thousand measures of barley, and twenty thousand baths of wine, and twenty thousand baths of oil.

2:11    推羅王希蘭寫信回答所羅門說，耶和華因為愛他的子民，所以立你作他們的王。
Then Huram the king of Tyre answered in writing, which he sent to Solomon, Because the LORD hath loved his people, he hath made thee king over them.

2:12    又說，創造天地的耶和華以色列的神是應當稱頌的。他賜給大衛王一個有智慧的兒子，使他有謀略聰明，可以為耶和華建造殿宇，又為自己的國建造宮室。
Huram said moreover, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, that made heaven and earth, who hath given to David the king a wise son, endued with prudence and understanding, that might build an house for the LORD, and an house for his kingdom.

2:13    現在我打發一個精巧有聰明的人去，他是我父親希蘭所用的，
And now I have sent a cunning man, endued with understanding, of Huram my father's,

2:14    是但支派一個婦人的兒子。他父親是推羅人，他善用金，銀，銅，鐵，石，木，和紫色，藍色，硃紅色線與細麻製造各物，並精於雕刻，又能想出各樣的巧工。請你派定這人，與你的巧匠和你父，我主大衛的巧匠一同做工。
The son of a woman of the daughters of Dan, and his father was a man of Tyre, skilful to work in gold, and in silver, in brass, in iron, in stone, and in timber, in purple, in blue, and in fine linen, and in crimson; also to grave any manner of graving, and to find out every device which shall be put to him, with thy cunning men, and with the cunning men of my lord David thy father.

2:15    我主所說的小麥，大麥，酒，油，願我主運來給眾僕人。
Now therefore the wheat, and the barley, the oil, and the wine, which my lord hath spoken of, let him send unto his servants:

2:16    我們必照你所需用的，從黎巴嫩砍伐樹木，紮成筏子，浮海運到約帕。你可以從那裡運到耶路撒冷。
And we will cut wood out of Lebanon, as much as thou shalt need: and we will bring it to thee in floats by sea to Joppa; and thou shalt carry it up to Jerusalem.

2:17    所羅門仿照他父大衛數點住在以色列地所有寄居的外邦人，共有十五萬三千六百名。
And Solomon numbered all the strangers that were in the land of Israel, after the numbering wherewith David his father had numbered them; and they were found an hundred and fifty thousand and three thousand and six hundred.

2:18    使七萬人扛抬材料，八萬人在山上鑿石頭，三千六百人督理工作。
And he set threescore and ten thousand of them to be bearers of burdens, and fourscore thousand to be hewers in the mountain, and three thousand and six hundred overseers to set the people a work.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


3:1    所羅門就在耶路撒冷，耶和華向他父大衛顯現的摩利亞山上，就是耶布斯人阿珥楠的禾場上，大衛所指定的地方預備好了，開工建造耶和華的殿。
Then Solomon began to build the house of the LORD at Jerusalem in mount Moriah, where the Lord appeared unto David his father, in the place that David had prepared in the threshingfloor of Ornan the Jebusite.

3:2    所羅門作王第四年二月初二日開工建造。
And he began to build in the second day of the second month, in the fourth year of his reign.

3:3    所羅門建築神殿的根基，乃是這樣，長六十肘，寬二十肘，都按著古時的尺寸。
Now these are the things wherein Solomon was instructed for the building of the house of God. The length by cubits after the first measure was threescore cubits, and the breadth twenty cubits.

3:4    殿前的廊子長二十肘，與殿的寬窄一樣，高一百二十肘。裡面貼上精金。
And the porch that was in the front of the house, the length of it was according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the height was an hundred and twenty: and he overlaid it within with pure gold.

3:5    大殿的牆都用松木板遮蔽，又貼了精金，上面雕刻棕樹和鏈子。
And the greater house he cieled with fir tree, which he overlaid with fine gold, and set thereon palm trees and chains.

3:6    又用寶石裝飾殿牆，使殿華美。所用的金子都是巴瓦音的金子。
And he garnished the house with precious stones for beauty: and the gold was gold of Parvaim.

3:7    又用金子貼殿和殿的楝樑，門檻，牆壁，門扇。牆上雕刻基路伯。
He overlaid also the house, the beams, the posts, and the walls thereof, and the doors thereof, with gold; and graved cherubims on the walls.

3:8    又建造至聖所，長二十肘，與殿的寬窄一樣，寬也是二十肘。貼上精金，共用金子六百他連得。
And he made the most holy house, the length whereof was according to the breadth of the house, twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof twenty cubits: and he overlaid it with fine gold, amounting to six hundred talents.

3:9    金釘重五十舍客勒。樓房都貼上金子。
And the weight of the nails was fifty shekels of gold. And he overlaid the upper chambers with gold.

3:10    在至聖所按造像的法子造兩個基路伯，用金子包裹。
And in the most holy house he made two cherubims of image work, and overlaid them with gold.

3:11    兩個基路伯的翅膀共長二十肘。這基路伯的一個翅膀長五肘，挨著殿這邊的牆。那一個翅膀也長五肘，與那基路伯翅膀相接。
And the wings of the cherubims were twenty cubits long: one wing of the one cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house: and the other wing was likewise five cubits, reaching to the wing of the other cherub.

3:12    那基路伯的一個翅膀長五肘，挨著殿那邊的牆。那一個翅膀也長五肘，與這基路伯的翅膀相接。
And one wing of the other cherub was five cubits, reaching to the wall of the house: and the other wing was five cubits also, joining to the wing of the other cherub.

3:13    兩個基路伯張開翅膀，共長二十肘，面向外殿而立。
The wings of these cherubims spread themselves forth twenty cubits: and they stood on their feet, and their faces were inward.

3:14    又用藍色，紫色，硃紅色線和細麻織幔子，在其上繡出基路伯來。
And he made the vail of blue, and purple, and crimson, and fine linen, and wrought cherubims thereon.

3:15    在殿前造了兩根柱子，高三十五肘。每柱頂高五肘。
Also he made before the house two pillars of thirty and five cubits high, and the chapiter that was on the top of each of them was five cubits.

3:16    又照聖所內鏈子的樣式作鏈子，安在柱頂上。又作一百石榴，安在鏈子上。
And he made chains, as in the oracle, and put them on the heads of the pillars; and made an hundred pomegranates, and put them on the chains.

3:17    將兩根柱子立在殿前，一根在右邊，一根在左邊。右邊的起名叫雅斤，左邊的起名叫波阿斯。
And he reared up the pillars before the temple, one on the right hand, and the other on the left; and called the name of that on the right hand Jachin, and the name of that on the left Boaz.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


4:1    他又製造一座銅壇，長二十肘，寬二十肘，高十肘。
Moreover he made an altar of brass, twenty cubits the length thereof, and twenty cubits the breadth thereof, and ten cubits the height thereof.

4:2    又鑄一個銅海，樣式是圓的，高五肘，徑十肘，圍三十肘。
Also he made a molten sea of ten cubits from brim to brim, round in compass, and five cubits the height thereof; and a line of thirty cubits did compass it round about.

4:3    海周圍有野瓜（野瓜原文作牛）的樣式，每肘十瓜，共有兩行，是鑄海的時候鑄上的。
And under it was the similitude of oxen, which did compass it round about: ten in a cubit, compassing the sea round about. Two rows of oxen were cast, when it was cast.

4:4    有十二隻銅牛馱海，三隻向北，三隻向西，三隻向南，三隻向東。海在牛上，牛尾向內。
It stood upon twelve oxen, three looking toward the north, and three looking toward the west, and three looking toward the south, and three looking toward the east: and the sea was set above upon them, and all their hinder parts were inward.

4:5    海厚一掌，邊如杯邊，又如百合花，可容三千吧特。
And the thickness of it was an handbreadth, and the brim of it like the work of the brim of a cup, with flowers of lilies; and it received and held three thousand baths.

4:6    又製造十個盆，五個放在右邊，五個放在左邊，獻燔祭所用之物都洗在其內。但海是為祭司沭浴的。
He made also ten lavers, and put five on the right hand, and five on the left, to wash in them: such things as they offered for the burnt offering they washed in them; but the sea was for the priests to wash in.

4:7    他又照所定的樣式造十個金燈臺放在殿裡，五個在右邊，五個在左邊。
And he made ten candlesticks of gold according to their form, and set them in the temple, five on the right hand, and five on the left.

4:8    又造十張桌子放在殿裡，五張在右邊，五張在左邊。又造一百個金碗。
He made also ten tables, and placed them in the temple, five on the right side, and five on the left. And he made an hundred basons of gold.

4:9    又建立祭司院和大院，並院門，用銅包裹門扇。
Furthermore he made the court of the priests, and the great court, and doors for the court, and overlaid the doors of them with brass.

4:10    將海安在殿門的右邊，就是南邊。
And he set the sea on the right side of the east end, over against the south.

4:11    戶蘭又造了盆，鏟，碗。這樣，他為所羅門王作完了神殿的工。
And Huram made the pots, and the shovels, and the basons. And Huram finished the work that he was to make for king Solomon for the house of God;

4:12    所造的就是兩根柱子和柱上兩個如球的頂，並兩個蓋柱頂的網子，
To wit, the two pillars, and the pommels, and the chapiters which were on the top of the two pillars, and the two wreaths to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were on the top of the pillars;

4:13    和四百石榴，安在兩個網子上，每網兩行蓋著兩個柱上如球的頂。
And four hundred pomegranates on the two wreaths; two rows of pomegranates on each wreath, to cover the two pommels of the chapiters which were upon the pillars.

4:14    盆座和其上的盆，
He made also bases, and lavers made he upon the bases;

4:15    海和海下的十二隻牛，
One sea, and twelve oxen under it.

4:16    盆，鏟子，肉鍤子，與耶和華殿裡的一切器皿，都是巧匠戶蘭用光亮的銅為所羅門王造成的，
The pots also, and the shovels, and the fleshhooks, and all their instruments, did Huram his father make to king Solomon for the house of the LORD of bright brass.

4:17    是在約旦平原疏割和撒利但中間藉膠泥鑄成的。
In the plain of Jordan did the king cast them, in the clay ground between Succoth and Zeredathah.

4:18    所羅門製造的這一切甚多，銅的輕重無法可查。
Thus Solomon made all these vessels in great abundance: for the weight of the brass could not be found out.

4:19    所羅門又造神殿裡的金壇和陳設餅的桌子，
And Solomon made all the vessels that were for the house of God, the golden altar also, and the tables whereon the shewbread was set;

4:20    並精金的燈臺和燈盞，可以照例點在內殿前。
Moreover the candlesticks with their lamps, that they should burn after the manner before the oracle, of pure gold;

4:21    燈臺上的花和燈盞，並臘剪都是金的，且是純金的。
And the flowers, and the lamps, and the tongs, made he of gold, and that perfect gold;

4:22    又用精金製造鑷子，盤子，調羹，火鼎。至於殿門和至聖所的門扇，並殿的門扇，都是金子妝飾的。
And the snuffers, and the basons, and the spoons, and the censers, of pure gold: and the entry of the house, the inner doors thereof for the most holy place, and the doors of the house of the temple, were of gold.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


5:1    所羅門作完了耶和華殿的一切工，就把他父大衛分別為聖的金銀和器皿都帶來，放在神殿的府庫裡。
Thus all the work that Solomon made for the house of the LORD was finished: and Solomon brought in all the things that David his father had dedicated; and the silver, and the gold, and all the instruments, put he among the treasures of the house of God.

5:2    那時，所羅門將以色列的長老，各支派的首領，並以色列的族長招聚到耶路撒冷，要把耶和華的約櫃從大衛城就是錫安運上來。
Then Solomon assembled the elders of Israel, and all the heads of the tribes, the chief of the fathers of the children of Israel, unto Jerusalem, to bring up the ark of the covenant of the LORD out of the city of David, which is Zion.

5:3    於是以色列眾人在七月節前都聚集到王那裡。
Wherefore all the men of Israel assembled themselves unto the king in the feast which was in the seventh month.

5:4    以色列眾長老來到，利未人便抬起約櫃。
And all the elders of Israel came; and the Levites took up the ark.

5:5    祭司利未人將約櫃運上來，又將會幕和會幕的一切聖器具都帶上來。
And they brought up the ark, and the tabernacle of the congregation, and all the holy vessels that were in the tabernacle, these did the priests and the Levites bring up.

5:6    所羅門王和聚集到他那裡的以色列全會眾都在約櫃前獻牛羊為祭，多得不可勝數。
Also king Solomon, and all the congregation of Israel that were assembled unto him before the ark, sacrificed sheep and oxen, which could not be told nor numbered for multitude.



5:7    祭司將耶和華的約櫃抬進內殿，就是至聖所，放在兩個基路伯的翅膀底下。
And the priests brought in the ark of the covenant of the LORD unto his place, to the oracle of the house, into the most holy place, even under the wings of the cherubims:

5:8    基路伯張著翅膀在約櫃之上，遮掩約櫃和抬櫃的槓。
For the cherubims spread forth their wings over the place of the ark, and the cherubims covered the ark and the staves thereof above.

5:9    這槓甚長，槓頭在內殿前可以看見，在殿外卻不能看見，直到如今還在那裡。
And they drew out the staves of the ark, that the ends of the staves were seen from the ark before the oracle; but they were not seen without. And there it is unto this day.

5:10    約櫃裡惟有兩塊石版，就是以色列人出埃及後，耶和華與他們立約的時候，摩西在何烈山所放的。除此以外，並無別物。
There was nothing in the ark save the two tables which Moses put therein at Horeb, when the LORD made a covenant with the children of Israel, when they came out of Egypt.

5:11    當時，在那裡所有的祭司都已自潔，並不分班供職。
And it came to pass, when the priests were come out of the holy place: (for all the priests that were present were sanctified, and did not then wait by course:

5:12    他們出聖所的時候，歌唱的利未人亞薩，希幔，耶杜頓，和他們的眾子眾弟兄都穿細麻布衣服，站在壇的東邊，敲鈸，鼓瑟，彈琴，同著他們有一百二十個祭司吹號。
Also the Levites which were the singers, all of them of Asaph, of Heman, of Jeduthun, with their sons and their brethren, being arrayed in white linen, having cymbals and psalteries and harps, stood at the east end of the altar, and with them an hundred and twenty priests sounding with trumpets:)

5:13    吹號的，歌唱的都一齊發聲，聲合為一，讚美感謝耶和華。吹號，敲鈸，用各種樂器，揚聲讚美耶和華說，耶和華本為善，他的慈愛永遠長存。那時，耶和華的殿有云充滿，
It came even to pass, as the trumpeters and singers were as one, to make one sound to be heard in praising and thanking the LORD; and when they lifted up their voice with the trumpets and cymbals and instruments of musick, and praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever: that then the house was filled with a cloud, even the house of the LORD;

5:14    甚至祭司不能站立供職，因為耶和華的榮光充滿了神的殿。
So that the priests could not stand to minister by reason of the cloud: for the glory of the LORD had filled the house of God.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


6:1    那時，所羅門說，耶和華曾說他必住在幽暗之處。
Then said Solomon, The LORD hath said that he would dwell in the thick darkness.

6:2    但我已經建造殿宇作你的居所，為你永遠的住處。
But I have built an house of habitation for thee, and a place for thy dwelling for ever.

6:3    王轉臉為以色列會眾祝福，以色列會眾就都站立。
And the king turned his face, and blessed the whole congregation of Israel: and all the congregation of Israel stood.

6:4    所羅門說，耶和華以色列的神是應當稱頌的。因他親口向我父大衛所應許的，也親手成就了。
And he said, Blessed be the LORD God of Israel, who hath with his hands fulfilled that which he spake with his mouth to my father David, saying,

6:5    他說，自從我領我民出埃及地以來，我未曾在以色列眾支派中選擇一城建造殿宇為我名的居所，也未曾揀選一人作我民以色列的君。
Since the day that I brought forth my people out of the land of Egypt I chose no city among all the tribes of Israel to build an house in, that my name might be there; neither chose I any man to be a ruler over my people Israel:

6:6    但選擇耶路撒冷為我名的居所，又揀選大衛治理我民以色列。
But I have chosen Jerusalem, that my name might be there; and have chosen David to be over my people Israel.

6:7    所羅門說，我父大衛曾立意要為耶和華以色列神的名建殿，
Now it was in the heart of David my father to build an house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.

6:8    耶和華卻對我父大衛說，你立意要為我的名建殿，這意思甚好。
But the LORD said to David my father, Forasmuch as it was in thine heart to build an house for my name, thou didst well in that it was in thine heart:

6:9    只是你不可建殿，惟你所生的兒子必為我名建殿。
Notwithstanding thou shalt not build the house; but thy son which shall come forth out of thy loins, he shall build the house for my name.

6:10    現在耶和華成就了他所應許的話，使我接續我父大衛坐以色列的國位，是照耶和華所說的，又為耶和華以色列神的名建造了殿。
The LORD therefore hath performed his word that he hath spoken: for I am risen up in the room of David my father, and am set on the throne of Israel, as the LORD promised, and have built the house for the name of the LORD God of Israel.

6:11    我將約櫃安置在其中，櫃內有耶和華的約，就是他與以色列人所立的約。
And in it have I put the ark, wherein is the covenant of the LORD, that he made with the children of Israel.

6:12    所羅門當著以色列會眾，站在耶和華的壇前，舉起手來，
And he stood before the altar of the LORD in the presence of all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands:

6:13    所羅門曾造一個銅臺，長五肘，寬五肘，高三肘，放在院中。就站在臺上，當著以色列的會眾跪下，向天舉手，
For Solomon had made a brasen scaffold of five cubits long, and five cubits broad, and three cubits high, and had set it in the midst of the court: and upon it he stood, and kneeled down upon his knees before all the congregation of Israel, and spread forth his hands toward heaven,

6:14    說，耶和華以色列的神阿，天上地下沒有神可比你的。你向那盡心行在你面前的僕人守約施慈愛。
And said, O LORD God of Israel, there is no God like thee in the heaven, nor in the earth; which keepest covenant, and shewest mercy unto thy servants, that walk before thee with all their hearts:

6:15    向你僕人我父大衛所應許的話現在應驗了。你親口應許，親手成就，正如今日一樣。
Thou which hast kept with thy servant David my father that which thou hast promised him; and spakest with thy mouth, and hast fulfilled it with thine hand, as it is this day.

6:16    耶和華以色列的神阿，你所應許你僕人我父大衛的話說，你的子孫若謹慎自己的行為，遵守我的律法，像你在我面前所行的一樣，就不斷人坐以色列的國位。現在求你應驗這話。
Now therefore, O LORD God of Israel, keep with thy servant David my father that which thou hast promised him, saying, There shall not fail thee a man in my sight to sit upon the throne of Israel; yet so that thy children take heed to their way to walk in my law, as thou hast walked before me.

6:17    耶和華以色列的神阿，求你成就向你僕人大衛所應許的話。
Now then, O LORD God of Israel, let thy word be verified, which thou hast spoken unto thy servant David.

6:18    神果真與世人同住在地上嗎。看哪，天和天上的天尚且不足你居住的，何況我所建的這殿呢。
But will God in very deed dwell with men on the earth? behold, heaven and the heaven of heavens cannot contain thee; how much less this house which I have built!

6:19    惟求耶和華我的神垂顧僕人的禱告祈求，俯聽僕人在你面前的祈禱呼籲。
Have respect therefore to the prayer of thy servant, and to his supplication, O LORD my God, to hearken unto the cry and the prayer which thy servant prayeth before thee:

6:20    願你晝夜看顧這殿，就是你應許立為你名的居所。求你垂聽僕人向此處禱告的話。
That thine eyes may be open upon this house day and night, upon the place whereof thou hast said that thou wouldest put thy name there; to hearken unto the prayer which thy servant prayeth toward this place.

6:21    你僕人和你民以色列向此處祈禱的時候，求你從天上你的居所垂聽，垂聽而赦免。
Hearken therefore unto the supplications of thy servant, and of thy people Israel, which they shall make toward this place: hear thou from thy dwelling place, even from heaven; and when thou hearest, forgive.

6:22    人若得罪鄰舍，有人叫他起誓，他來到這殿，在你的壇前起誓，
If a man sin against his neighbour, and an oath be laid upon him to make him swear, and the oath come before thine altar in this house;

6:23    求你從天上垂聽，判斷你的僕人，定惡人有罪，照他所行的報應在他頭上。定義人有理，照他的義賞賜他。
Then hear thou from heaven, and do, and judge thy servants, by requiting the wicked, by recompensing his way upon his own head; and by justifying the righteous, by giving him according to his righteousness.

6:24    你的民以色列若得罪你，敗在仇敵面前，又回心轉意承認你的名，在這殿裡向你祈求禱告，
And if thy people Israel be put to the worse before the enemy, because they have sinned against thee; and shall return and confess thy name, and pray and make supplication before thee in this house;

6:25    求你從天上垂聽，赦免你民以色列的罪，使他們歸回你賜給他們和他們列祖之地。
Then hear thou from the heavens, and forgive the sin of thy people Israel, and bring them again unto the land which thou gavest to them and to their fathers.

6:26    你的民因得罪你，你懲罰他們，使天閉塞不下雨，他們若向此處禱告，承認你的名，離開他們的罪，
When the heaven is shut up, and there is no rain, because they have sinned against thee; yet if they pray toward this place, and confess thy name, and turn from their sin, when thou dost afflict them;

6:27    求你在天上垂聽，赦免你僕人和你民以色列的罪，將當行的善道指教他們，且降雨在你的地，就是你賜給你民為業之地。
Then hear thou from heaven, and forgive the sin of thy servants, and of thy people Israel, when thou hast taught them the good way, wherein they should walk; and send rain upon thy land, which thou hast given unto thy people for an inheritance.

6:28    國中若有饑荒，瘟疫，旱風，黴爛，蝗蟲，螞蚱，或有仇敵犯境，圍困城邑，無論遭遇什麼災禍疾病，
If there be dearth in the land, if there be pestilence, if there be blasting, or mildew, locusts, or caterpillers; if their enemies besiege them in the cities of their land; whatsoever sore or whatsoever sickness there be:

6:29    你的民以色列，或是眾人，或是一人，自覺災禍甚苦，向這殿舉手，無論祈求什麼，禱告什麼，
Then what prayer or what supplication soever shall be made of any man, or of all thy people Israel, when every one shall know his own sore and his own grief, and shall spread forth his hands in this house:

6:30    求你從天上你的居所垂聽赦免。你是知道人心的，要照各人所行的待他們（惟有你知道世人的心），
Then hear thou from heaven thy dwelling place, and forgive, and render unto every man according unto all his ways, whose heart thou knowest; (for thou only knowest the hearts of the children of men:)

6:31    使他們在你賜給我們列祖之地上一生一世敬畏你，遵行你的道。
That they may fear thee, to walk in thy ways, so long as they live in the land which thou gavest unto our fathers.

6:32    論到不屬你民以色列的外邦人，為你的大名和大能的手，並伸出來的膀臂，從遠方而來，向這殿禱告，
Moreover concerning the stranger, which is not of thy people Israel, but is come from a far country for thy great name's sake, and thy mighty hand, and thy stretched out arm; if they come and pray in this house;

6:33    求你從天上你的居所垂聽，照著外邦人所祈求的而行，使天下萬民都認識你的名，敬畏你，像你的民以色列一樣，又使他們知道我建造的這殿是稱為你名下的。
Then hear thou from the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, and do according to all that the stranger calleth to thee for; that all people of the earth may know thy name, and fear thee, as doth thy people Israel, and may know that this house which I have built is called by thy name.

6:34    你的民若奉你的差遣，無論往何處去與仇敵爭戰，向你所選擇的城與我為你名所建造的殿禱告，
If thy people go out to war against their enemies by the way that thou shalt send them, and they pray unto thee toward this city which thou hast chosen, and the house which I have built for thy name;

6:35    求你從天上垂聽他們的禱告祈求，使他們得勝。
Then hear thou from the heavens their prayer and their supplication, and maintain their cause.

6:36    你的民若得罪你（世上沒有不犯罪的人），你向他們發怒，將他們交給仇敵擄到或遠或近之地。
If they sin against thee, (for there is no man which sinneth not,) and thou be angry with them, and deliver them over before their enemies, and they carry them away captives unto a land far off or near;

6:37    他們若在擄到之地想起罪來，回心轉意，懇求你說，我們有罪了，我們悖逆了，我們作惡了。
Yet if they bethink themselves in the land whither they are carried captive, and turn and pray unto thee in the land of their captivity, saying, We have sinned, we have done amiss, and have dealt wickedly;

6:38    他們若在擄到之地盡心儘性歸服你，又向自己的地，就是你賜給他們列祖之地和你所選擇的城，並我為你名所建造的殿禱告，
If they return to thee with all their heart and with all their soul in the land of their captivity, whither they have carried them captives, and pray toward their land, which thou gavest unto their fathers, and toward the city which thou hast chosen, and toward the house which I have built for thy name:

6:39    求你從天上你的居所垂聽你民的禱告祈求，為他們伸冤，赦免他們的過犯。
Then hear thou from the heavens, even from thy dwelling place, their prayer and their supplications, and maintain their cause, and forgive thy people which have sinned against thee.

6:40    我的神阿，現在求你睜眼看，側耳聽在此處所獻的禱告。
Now, my God, let, I beseech thee, thine eyes be open, and let thine ears be attent unto the prayer that is made in this place.

6:41    耶和華神阿，求你起來，和你有能力的約櫃同入安息之所。耶和華神阿，願你的祭司披上救恩。願你的聖民蒙福歡樂。
Now therefore arise, O LORD God, into thy resting place, thou, and the ark of thy strength: let thy priests, O LORD God, be clothed with salvation, and let thy saints rejoice in goodness.

6:42    耶和華神阿，求你不要厭棄你的受膏者，要記念向你僕人大衛所施的慈愛。
O LORD God, turn not away the face of thine anointed: remember the mercies of David thy servant.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


7:1    所羅門祈禱已畢，就有火從天上降下來，燒盡燔祭和別的祭。耶和華的榮光充滿了殿。
Now when Solomon had made an end of praying, the fire came down from heaven, and consumed the burnt offering and the sacrifices; and the glory of the LORD filled the house.

7:2    因耶和華的榮光充滿了耶和華殿，所以祭司不能進殿。
And the priests could not enter into the house of the LORD, because the glory of the LORD had filled the LORD's house.

7:3    那火降下，耶和華的榮光在殿上的時候，以色列眾人看見，就在鋪石地俯伏叩拜，稱謝耶和華說，耶和華本為善，他的慈愛永遠長存。
And when all the children of Israel saw how the fire came down, and the glory of the LORD upon the house, they bowed themselves with their faces to the ground upon the pavement, and worshipped, and praised the LORD, saying, For he is good; for his mercy endureth for ever.

7:4    王和眾民在耶和華面前獻祭。
Then the king and all the people offered sacrifices before the LORD.

7:5    所羅門王用牛二萬二千，羊十二萬獻祭。這樣，王和眾民為神的殿行奉獻之禮。
And king Solomon offered a sacrifice of twenty and two thousand oxen, and an hundred and twenty thousand sheep: so the king and all the people dedicated the house of God.

7:6    祭司侍立，各供其職。利未人也拿著耶和華的樂器，就是大衛王造出來，藉利未人頌讚耶和華的。（他的慈愛永遠長存。）祭司在眾人面前吹號，以色列人都站立。
And the priests waited on their offices: the Levites also with instruments of musick of the LORD, which David the king had made to praise the LORD, because his mercy endureth for ever, when David praised by their ministry; and the priests sounded trumpets before them, and all Israel stood.

7:7    所羅門因他所造的銅壇容不下燔祭，素祭，和脂油，便將耶和華殿前院子當中分別為聖，在那裡獻燔祭和平安祭牲的脂油。
Moreover Solomon hallowed the middle of the court that was before the house of the LORD: for there he offered burnt offerings, and the fat of the peace offerings, because the brasen altar which Solomon had made was not able to receive the burnt offerings, and the meat offerings, and the fat.

7:8    那時所羅門和以色列眾人，就是從哈馬口直到埃及小河，所有的以色列人都聚整合為大會，守節七日。
Also at the same time Solomon kept the feast seven days, and all Israel with him, a very great congregation, from the entering in of Hamath unto the river of Egypt.

7:9    第八日設立嚴肅會，行奉獻壇的禮七日，守節七日。
And in the eighth day they made a solemn assembly: for they kept the dedication of the altar seven days, and the feast seven days.

7:10    七月二十三日，王遣散眾民。他們因見耶和華向大衛和所羅門與他民以色列所施的恩惠，就都心中喜樂，各歸各家去了。
And on the three and twentieth day of the seventh month he sent the people away into their tents, glad and merry in heart for the goodness that the LORD had shewed unto David, and to Solomon, and to Israel his people.

7:11    所羅門造成了耶和華殿和王宮。在耶和華殿和王宮凡他心中所要作的，都順順利利地作成了。
Thus Solomon finished the house of the LORD, and the king's house: and all that came into Solomon's heart to make in the house of the LORD, and in his own house, he prosperously effected.

7:12    夜間耶和華向所羅門顯現，對他說，我已聽了你的禱告，也選擇這地方作為祭祀我的殿宇。
And the LORD appeared to Solomon by night, and said unto him, I have heard thy prayer, and have chosen this place to myself for an house of sacrifice.

7:13    我若使天閉塞不下雨，或使蝗蟲吃這地的出產，或使瘟疫流行在我民中，
If I shut up heaven that there be no rain, or if I command the locusts to devour the land, or if I send pestilence among my people;

7:14    這稱為我名下的子民，若是自卑，禱告，尋求我的面，轉離他們的惡行，我必從天上垂聽，赦免他們的罪，醫治他們的地。
If my people, which are called by my name, shall humble themselves, and pray, and seek my face, and turn from their wicked ways; then will I hear from heaven, and will forgive their sin, and will heal their land.

7:15    我必睜眼看，側耳聽在此處所獻的禱告。
Now mine eyes shall be open, and mine ears attent unto the prayer that is made in this place.

7:16    現在我已選擇這殿，分別為聖，使我的名永在其中，我的眼，我的心也必常在那裡。
For now have I chosen and sanctified this house, that my name may be there for ever: and mine eyes and mine heart shall be there perpetually.

7:17    你若在我面前效法你父大衛所行的，遵行我一切所吩咐你的，謹守我的律例典章，
And as for thee, if thou wilt walk before me, as David thy father walked, and do according to all that I have commanded thee, and shalt observe my statutes and my judgments;

7:18    我就必堅固你的國位，正如我與你父大衛所立的約，說，你的子孫必不斷人作以色列的王。
Then will I stablish the throne of thy kingdom, according as I have covenanted with David thy father, saying, There shall not fail thee a man to be ruler in Israel.

7:19    倘若你們轉去丟棄我指示你們的律例誡命，去事奉敬拜別神，
But if ye turn away, and forsake my statutes and my commandments, which I have set before you, and shall go and serve other gods, and worship them;



7:20    我就必將以色列人從我賜給他們的地上拔出根來，並且我為己名所分別為聖的殿也必捨棄不顧，使他在萬民中作笑談，被譏誚。
Then will I pluck them up by the roots out of my land which I have given them; and this house, which I have sanctified for my name, will I cast out of my sight, and will make it to be a proverb and a byword among all nations.

7:21    這殿雖然甚高，將來經過的人必驚訝說，耶和華為何向這地和這殿如此行呢。
And this house, which is high, shall be an astonishment to every one that passeth by it; so that he shall say, Why hath the LORD done thus unto this land, and unto this house?

7:22    人必回答說，是因此地的人離棄耶和華他們列祖的神，就是領他們出埃及地的神，去親近別神，敬拜事奉他，所以耶和華使這一切災禍臨到他們。
And it shall be answered, Because they forsook the LORD God of their fathers, which brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, and laid hold on other gods, and worshipped them, and served them: therefore hath he brought all this evil upon them.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


8:1    所羅門建造耶和華殿和王宮，二十年才完畢了。
And it came to pass at the end of twenty years, wherein Solomon had built the house of the LORD, and his own house,

8:2    以後所羅門重新修築希蘭送給他的那些城邑，使以色列人住在那裡。
That the cities which Huram had restored to Solomon, Solomon built them, and caused the children of Israel to dwell there.

8:3    所羅門往哈馬瑣巴去，攻取了那地方。
And Solomon went to Hamathzobah, and prevailed against it.

8:4    所羅門建造曠野裡的達莫，又建造哈馬所有的積貨城，
And he built Tadmor in the wilderness, and all the store cities, which he built in Hamath.

8:5    又建造上伯和侖，下伯和侖作為保障，都有牆，有門，有閂。
Also he built Bethhoron the upper, and Bethhoron the nether, fenced cities, with walls, gates, and bars;

8:6    又建造巴拉和所有的積貨城，並屯車輛馬兵的城，與耶路撒冷，黎巴嫩，以及自己治理的全國中所願意建造的。
And Baalath, and all the store cities that Solomon had, and all the chariot cities, and the cities of the horsemen, and all that Solomon desired to build in Jerusalem, and in Lebanon, and throughout all the land of his dominion.

8:7    至於國中所剩下不屬以色列人的赫人，亞摩利人，比利洗人，希未人，耶布斯人，
As for all the people that were left of the Hittites, and the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Hivites, and the Jebusites, which were not of Israel,

8:8    就是以色列人未曾滅絕的，所羅門挑取他們的後裔作服苦的奴僕，直到今日。
But of their children, who were left after them in the land, whom the children of Israel consumed not, them did Solomon make to pay tribute until this day.

8:9    惟有以色列人，所羅門不使他們當奴僕作工，乃是作他的戰士，軍長的統領，車兵長，馬兵長。
But of the children of Israel did Solomon make no servants for his work; but they were men of war, and chief of his captains, and captains of his chariots and horsemen.

8:10    所羅門王有二百五十督工的，監管工人。
And these were the chief of king Solomon's officers, even two hundred and fifty, that bare rule over the people.

8:11    所羅門將法老的女兒帶出大衛城，上到為她建造的宮裡。因所羅門說，耶和華約櫃所到之處都為聖地，所以我的妻不可住在以色列王大衛的宮裡。
And Solomon brought up the daughter of Pharaoh out of the city of David unto the house that he had built for her: for he said, My wife shall not dwell in the house of David king of Israel, because the places are holy, whereunto the ark of the LORD hath come.

8:12    所羅門在耶和華的壇上，就是在廊子前他所築的壇上，與耶和華獻燔祭。
Then Solomon offered burnt offerings unto the LORD on the altar of the LORD, which he had built before the porch,

8:13    又遵著摩西的吩咐在安息日，月朔，並一年三節，就是除酵節，七七節，住棚節，獻每日所當獻的祭。
Even after a certain rate every day, offering according to the commandment of Moses, on the sabbaths, and on the new moons, and on the solemn feasts, three times in the year, even in the feast of unleavened bread, and in the feast of weeks, and in the feast of tabernacles.

8:14    所羅門照著他父大衛所定的例，派定祭司的班次，使他們各供己事，又使利未人各盡其職，讚美耶和華，在祭司面前作每日所當作的。又派守門的按著班次看守各門，因為神人大衛是這樣吩咐的。
And he appointed, according to the order of David his father, the courses of the priests to their service, and the Levites to their charges, to praise and minister before the priests, as the duty of every day required: the porters also by their courses at every gate: for so had David the man of God commanded.

8:15    王所吩咐眾祭司和利未人的，無論是管府庫或辦別的事，他們都不違背。
And they departed not from the commandment of the king unto the priests and Levites concerning any matter, or concerning the treasures.

8:16    所羅門建造耶和華的殿，從立根基直到成功的日子，工料俱備。這樣，耶和華的殿全然完畢。
Now all the work of Solomon was prepared unto the day of the foundation of the house of the LORD, and until it was finished. So the house of the LORD was perfected.

8:17    那時，所羅門往以東地靠海的以旬迦別和以祿去。
Then went Solomon to Eziongeber, and to Eloth, at the sea side in the land of Edom.

8:18    希蘭差遣他的臣僕，將船隻和熟悉泛海的僕人送到所羅門那裡。他們同著所羅門的僕人到了俄斐，得了四百五十他連得金子，運到所羅門王那裡。
And Huram sent him by the hands of his servants ships, and servants that had knowledge of the sea; and they went with the servants of Solomon to Ophir, and took thence four hundred and fifty talents of gold, and brought them to king Solomon.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


9:1    示巴女王聽見所羅門的名聲，就來到耶路撒冷，要用難解的話試問所羅門。跟隨她的人甚多，又有駱駝馱著香料，寶石，和許多金子。她來見了所羅門，就把心裡所有的對所羅門都說出來。
And when the queen of Sheba heard of the fame of Solomon, she came to prove Solomon with hard questions at Jerusalem, with a very great company, and camels that bare spices, and gold in abundance, and precious stones: and when she was come to Solomon, she communed with him of all that was in her heart.

9:2    所羅門將她所問的都答上了，沒有一句不明白，不能答的。
And Solomon told her all her questions: and there was nothing hid from Solomon which he told her not.

9:3    示巴女王見所羅門的智慧和他所建造的宮室，
And when the queen of Sheba had seen the wisdom of Solomon, and the house that he had built,

9:4    席上的珍饈美味，群臣分列而坐，僕人兩旁侍立，以及他們的衣服裝飾，酒政，和酒政的衣服裝飾，又見他上耶和華殿的臺階，就詫異得神不守舍，
And the meat of his table, and the sitting of his servants, and the attendance of his ministers, and their apparel; his cupbearers also, and their apparel; and his ascent by which he went up into the house of the LORD; there was no more spirit in her.

9:5    對王說，我在本國裡所聽見論到你的事和你的智慧實在是真的。
And she said to the king, It was a true report which I heard in mine own land of thine acts, and of thy wisdom:

9:6    我先不信那些話，及至我來親眼見了，才知道你的大智慧。人所告訴我的，還不到一半。你的實跡越過我所聽見的名聲。
Howbeit I believed not their words, until I came, and mine eyes had seen it: and, behold, the one half of the greatness of thy wisdom was not told me: for thou exceedest the fame that I heard.

9:7    你的群臣，你的僕人常侍立在你面前聽你智慧的話是有福的。
Happy are thy men, and happy are these thy servants, which stand continually before thee, and hear thy wisdom.

9:8    耶和華你的神是應當稱頌的。他喜悅你，使你坐他的國位，為耶和華你的神作王。因為你的神愛以色列人，要永遠堅立他們，所以立你作他們的王，使你秉公行義。
Blessed be the LORD thy God, which delighted in thee to set thee on his throne, to be king for the LORD thy God: because thy God loved Israel, to establish them for ever, therefore made he thee king over them, to do judgment and justice.

9:9    於是示巴女王將一百二十他連得金子和寶石，與極多的香料送給所羅門王。她送給王的香料，以後再沒有這樣的。
And she gave the king an hundred and twenty talents of gold, and of spices great abundance, and precious stones: neither was there any such spice as the queen of Sheba gave king Solomon.

9:10    希蘭的僕人和所羅門的僕人從俄斐運了金子來，也運了檀香木（或作烏木。下同）和寶石來。
And the servants also of Huram, and the servants of Solomon, which brought gold from Ophir, brought algum trees and precious stones.

9:11    王用檀香木為耶和華殿和王宮作臺，又為歌唱的人作琴瑟。猶大地從來沒有見過這樣的。
And the king made of the algum trees terraces to the house of the LORD, and to the king's palace, and harps and psalteries for singers: and there were none such seen before in the land of Judah.

9:12    所羅門王按示巴女王所帶來的，還她禮物，另外照她一切所要所求的，都送給她。於是女王和她臣僕轉回本國去了。
And king Solomon gave to the queen of Sheba all her desire, whatsoever she asked, beside that which she had brought unto the king. So she turned, and went away to her own land, she and her servants.

9:13    所羅門每年所得的金子共有六百六十六他連得，
Now the weight of gold that came to Solomon in one year was six hundred and threescore and six talents of gold;

9:14    另外還有商人所進的金子，並且阿拉伯諸王與屬國的省長都帶金銀給所羅門。
Beside that which chapmen and merchants brought. And all the kings of Arabia and governors of the country brought gold and silver to Solomon.

9:15    所羅門王用錘出來的金子打成擋牌二百面，每面用金子六百舍客勒。
And king Solomon made two hundred targets of beaten gold: six hundred shekels of beaten gold went to one target.

9:16    又用錘出來的金子打成盾牌三百面，每面用金子三百舍客勒，都放在黎巴嫩林宮裡。
And three hundred shields made he of beaten gold: three hundred shekels of gold went to one shield. And the king put them in the house of the forest of Lebanon.

9:17    王用象牙製造一個大寶座，用精金包裹。
Moreover the king made a great throne of ivory, and overlaid it with pure gold.

9:18    寶座有六層臺階，又有金腳凳，與寶座相連。寶座兩旁有扶手，靠近扶手有兩個獅子站立。
And there were six steps to the throne, with a footstool of gold, which were fastened to the throne, and stays on each side of the sitting place, and two lions standing by the stays:

9:19    六層臺階上有十二個獅子站立，每層有兩個，左邊一個，右邊一個。在列國中沒有這樣作的。
And twelve lions stood there on the one side and on the other upon the six steps. There was not the like made in any kingdom.

9:20    所羅門王一切的飲器都是金的，黎巴嫩林宮裡的一切器皿都是精金的。所羅門年間，銀子算不了什麼。
And all the drinking vessels of king Solomon were of gold, and all the vessels of the house of the forest of Lebanon were of pure gold: none were of silver; it was not any thing accounted of in the days of Solomon.

9:21    因為王的船隻與希蘭的僕人一同往他施去。他施船隻三年一次裝載金，銀，象牙，猿猴，孔雀回來。
For the king's ships went to Tarshish with the servants of Huram: every three years once came the ships of Tarshish bringing gold, and silver, ivory, and apes, and peacocks.

9:22    所羅門王的財寶與智慧勝過天下的列王。
And king Solomon passed all the kings of the earth in riches and wisdom.

9:23    普天下的王都求見所羅門，要聽神賜給他智慧的話。
And all the kings of the earth sought the presence of Solomon, to hear his wisdom, that God had put in his heart.

9:24    他們各帶貢物，就是金器，銀器，衣服，軍械，香料，騾馬，每年有一定之例。
And they brought every man his present, vessels of silver, and vessels of gold, and raiment, harness, and spices, horses, and mules, a rate year by year.

9:25    所羅門有套車的馬四千棚，有馬兵一萬二千，安置在屯車的城邑和耶路撒冷，就是王那裡。
And Solomon had four thousand stalls for horses and chariots, and twelve thousand horsemen; whom he bestowed in the chariot cities, and with the king at Jerusalem.

9:26    所羅門統管諸王，從大河到非利士地，直到埃及的邊界。
And he reigned over all the kings from the river even unto the land of the Philistines, and to the border of Egypt.

9:27    王在耶路撒冷使銀子多如石頭，香柏木多如高原的桑樹。
And the king made silver in Jerusalem as stones, and cedar trees made he as the sycomore trees that are in the low plains in abundance.

9:28    有人從埃及和各國為所羅門趕馬群來。
And they brought unto Solomon horses out of Egypt, and out of all lands.

9:29    所羅門其餘的事，自始至終，不都寫在先知拿單的書上和示羅人亞希雅的預言書上，並先見易多論尼八兒子耶羅波安的默示書上嗎。
Now the rest of the acts of Solomon, first and last, are they not written in the book of Nathan the prophet, and in the prophecy of Ahijah the Shilonite, and in the visions of Iddo the seer against Jeroboam the son of Nebat?

9:30    所羅門在耶路撒冷作以色列眾人的王共四十年。
And Solomon reigned in Jerusalem over all Israel forty years.

9:31    所羅門與他列祖同睡，葬在他父大衛城裡。他兒子羅波安接續他作王。
And Solomon slept with his fathers, and he was buried in the city of David his father: and Rehoboam his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


10:1    羅波安往示劍去，因為以色列人都到了示劍，要立他作王。
And Rehoboam went to Shechem: for to Shechem were all Israel come to make him king.

10:2    尼八的兒子耶羅波安先前躲避所羅門王，逃往埃及，住在那裡。他聽見這事，就從埃及回來。
And it came to pass, when Jeroboam the son of Nebat, who was in Egypt, whither he had fled from the presence of Solomon the king, heard it, that Jeroboam returned out of Egypt.

10:3    以色列人打發人去請他，他就和以色列眾人來見羅波安，對他說，
And they sent and called him. So Jeroboam and all Israel came and spake to Rehoboam, saying,

10:4    你父親使我們負重軛作苦工，現在求你使我們作的苦工負的重軛輕鬆些，我們就事奉你。
Thy father made our yoke grievous: now therefore ease thou somewhat the grievous servitude of thy father, and his heavy yoke that he put upon us, and we will serve thee.

10:5    羅波安對他們說，第三日再來見我吧。民就去了。
And he said unto them, Come again unto me after three days. And the people departed.

10:6    羅波安之父所羅門在世的日子，有侍立在他面前的老年人，羅波安王和他們商議，說，你們給我出個什麼主意，我好回覆這民。
And king Rehoboam took counsel with the old men that had stood before Solomon his father while he yet lived, saying, What counsel give ye me to return answer to this people?

10:7    老年人對他說，王若恩待這民，使他們喜悅，用好話回覆他們，他們就永遠作王的僕人。
And they spake unto him, saying, If thou be kind to this people, and please them, and speak good words to them, they will be thy servants for ever.

10:8    王卻不用老年人給他出的主意，就和那些與他一同長大，在他面前侍立的少年人商議，
But he forsook the counsel which the old men gave him, and took counsel with the young men that were brought up with him, that stood before him.

10:9    說，這民對我說，你父親使我們負重軛，求你使我們輕鬆些。你們給我出個什麼主意，我好回覆他們。
And he said unto them, What advice give ye that we may return answer to this people, which have spoken to me, saying, Ease somewhat the yoke that thy father did put upon us?

10:10    那同他長大的少年人說，這民對王說，你父親使我們負重軛，求你使我們輕鬆些。王要對他們如此說，我的小拇指比我父親的腰還粗。
And the young men that were brought up with him spake unto him, saying, Thus shalt thou answer the people that spake unto thee, saying, Thy father made our yoke heavy, but make thou it somewhat lighter for us; thus shalt thou say unto them, My little finger shall be thicker than my father's loins.

10:11    我父親使你們負重軛，我必使你們負更重的軛。我父親用鞭子責打你們，我要用蠍子鞭責打你們。
For whereas my father put a heavy yoke upon you, I will put more to your yoke: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

10:12    耶羅波安和眾百姓遵著羅波安王所說你們第三日再來見我的那話，第三日他們果然來了。
So Jeroboam and all the people came to Rehoboam on the third day, as the king bade, saying, Come again to me on the third day.

10:13    羅波安王用嚴厲的話回覆他們，不用老年人所出的主意，
And the king answered them roughly; and king Rehoboam forsook the counsel of the old men,

10:14    照著少年人所出的主意對他們說，我父親使你們負重軛，我必使你們負更重的軛。我父親用鞭子責打你們，我要用蠍子鞭責打你們。
And answered them after the advice of the young men, saying, My father made your yoke heavy, but I will add thereto: my father chastised you with whips, but I will chastise you with scorpions.

10:15    王不肯依從百姓。這事乃出於神，為要應驗耶和華藉示羅人亞希雅對尼八兒子耶羅波安所說的話。
So the king hearkened not unto the people: for the cause was of God, that the LORD might perform his word, which he spake by the hand of Ahijah the Shilonite to Jeroboam the son of Nebat.

10:16    以色列眾民見王不依從他們，就對王說，我們與大衛有什麼分兒呢。與耶西的兒子並沒有關涉。以色列人哪，各回各家去吧。大衛家阿，自己顧自己吧。於是，以色列眾人都回自己家裡去了。
And when all Israel saw that the king would not hearken unto them, the people answered the king, saying, What portion have we in David? and we have none inheritance in the son of Jesse: every man to your tents, O Israel: and now, David, see to thine own house. So all Israel went to their tents.

10:17    惟獨住在猶大城邑的以色列人，羅波安仍作他們的王。
But as for the children of Israel that dwelt in the cities of Judah, Rehoboam reigned over them.

10:18    羅波安王差遣掌管服苦之人的哈多蘭往以色列人那裡去，以色列人就用石頭打死他。羅波安王急忙上車，逃回耶路撒冷去了。
Then king Rehoboam sent Hadoram that was over the tribute; and the children of Israel stoned him with stones, that he died. But king Rehoboam made speed to get him up to his chariot, to flee to Jerusalem.

10:19    這樣，以色列人背叛大衛家，直到今日。
And Israel rebelled against the house of David unto this day.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


11:1    羅波安來到耶路撒冷，招聚猶大家和便雅憫家，共十八萬人，都是挑選的戰士，要與以色列人爭戰，好將國奪回再歸自己。
And when Rehoboam was come to Jerusalem, he gathered of the house of Judah and Benjamin an hundred and fourscore thousand chosen men, which were warriors, to fight against Israel, that he might bring the kingdom again to Rehoboam.

11:2    但耶和華的話臨到神人示瑪雅說，
But the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah the man of God, saying,

11:3    你去告訴所羅門的兒子猶大王羅波安和住猶大，便雅憫的以色列眾人說，
Speak unto Rehoboam the son of Solomon, king of Judah, and to all Israel in Judah and Benjamin, saying,

11:4    耶和華如此說，你們不可上去與你們的弟兄爭戰，各歸各家去吧。因為這事出於我。眾人就聽從耶和華的話歸回，不去與耶羅波安爭戰。
Thus saith the LORD, Ye shall not go up, nor fight against your brethren: return every man to his house: for this thing is done of me. And they obeyed the words of the LORD, and returned from going against Jeroboam.

11:5    羅波安住在耶路撒冷，在猶大地修築城邑，
And Rehoboam dwelt in Jerusalem, and built cities for defence in Judah.

11:6    為保障修築伯利恆，以坦，提哥亞，
He built even Bethlehem, and Etam, and Tekoa,

11:7    伯夙，梭哥，亞杜蘭，
And Bethzur, and Shoco, and Adullam,

11:8    迦特，瑪利沙，西弗，
And Gath, and Mareshah, and Ziph,

11:9    亞多萊音，拉吉，亞西加，
And Adoraim, and Lachish, and Azekah,

11:10    瑣拉，亞雅侖，希伯侖。這都是猶大和便雅憫的堅固城。
And Zorah, and Aijalon, and Hebron, which are in Judah and in Benjamin fenced cities.

11:11    羅波安又堅固各處的保障，在其中安置軍長，又預備下糧食，油，酒。
And he fortified the strong holds, and put captains in them, and store of victual, and of oil and wine.

11:12    他在各城裡預備盾牌和槍，且使城極其堅固。猶大和便雅憫都歸了他。
And in every several city he put shields and spears, and made them exceeding strong, having Judah and Benjamin on his side.

11:13    以色列全地的祭司和利未人都從四方來歸羅波安。
And the priests and the Levites that were in all Israel resorted to him out of all their coasts.

11:14    利未人撇下他們的郊野和產業，來到猶大與耶路撒冷，是因耶羅波安和他的兒子拒絕他們，不許他們供祭司職分事奉耶和華。
For the Levites left their suburbs and their possession, and came to Judah and Jerusalem: for Jeroboam and his sons had cast them off from executing the priest's office unto the LORD:

11:15    耶羅波安為邱壇，為鬼魔（原文作公山羊），為自己所鑄造的牛犢設立祭司。
And he ordained him priests for the high places, and for the devils, and for the calves which he had made.

11:16    以色列各支派中，凡立定心意尋求耶和華以色列神的，都隨從利未人，來到耶路撒冷祭祀耶和華他們列祖的神。
And after them out of all the tribes of Israel such as set their hearts to seek the LORD God of Israel came to Jerusalem, to sacrifice unto the LORD God of their fathers.

11:17    這樣，就堅固猶大國，使所羅門的兒子羅波安強盛三年，因為他們三年遵行大衛和所羅門的道。
So they strengthened the kingdom of Judah, and made Rehoboam the son of Solomon strong, three years: for three years they walked in the way of David and Solomon.

11:18    羅波安娶大衛兒子耶利摩的女兒瑪哈拉為妻，又娶耶西兒子以利押的女兒亞比孩為妻。
And Rehoboam took him Mahalath the daughter of Jerimoth the son of David to wife, and Abihail the daughter of Eliab the son of Jesse;

11:19    從她生了幾個兒子，就是耶烏施，示瑪利雅，撒罕。
Which bare him children; Jeush, and Shamariah, and Zaham.

11:20    後來又娶押沙龍的女兒瑪迦（十三章二節作烏列的女兒米該雅），從她生了亞比雅，亞太，細撒，示羅密。
And after her he took Maachah the daughter of Absalom; which bare him Abijah, and Attai, and Ziza, and Shelomith.

11:21    羅波安娶十八個妻，立六十個妾，生二十八個兒子，六十個女兒。他卻愛押沙龍的女兒瑪迦，比愛別的妻妾更甚。
And Rehoboam loved Maachah the daughter of Absalom above all his wives and his concubines: (for he took eighteen wives, and threescore concubines; and begat twenty and eight sons, and threescore daughters.)

11:22    羅波安立瑪迦的兒子亞比雅作太子，在他弟兄中為首，因為想要立他接續作王。
And Rehoboam made Abijah the son of Maachah the chief, to be ruler among his brethren: for he thought to make him king.

11:23    羅波安辦事精明，使他眾子分散在猶大和便雅憫全地各堅固城裡，又賜他們許多糧食，為他們多尋妻子。
And he dealt wisely, and dispersed of all his children throughout all the countries of Judah and Benjamin, unto every fenced city: and he gave them victual in abundance. And he desired many wives.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


12:1    羅波安的國堅立，他強盛的時候就離棄耶和華的律法，以色列人也都隨從他。
And it came to pass, when Rehoboam had established the kingdom, and had strengthened himself, he forsook the law of the LORD, and all Israel with him.

12:2    羅波安王第五年，埃及王示撒上來攻打耶路撒冷，因為王和民得罪了耶和華。
And it came to pass, that in the fifth year of king Rehoboam Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, because they had transgressed against the LORD,

12:3    示撒帶戰車一千二百輛，馬兵六萬，並且跟從他出埃及的路比人，蘇基人，和古實人，多得不可勝數。
With twelve hundred chariots, and threescore thousand horsemen: and the people were without number that came with him out of Egypt; the Lubims, the Sukkiims, and the Ethiopians.

12:4    他攻取了猶大的堅固城，就來到耶路撒冷。
And he took the fenced cities which pertained to Judah, and came to Jerusalem.

12:5    那時，猶大的首領因為示撒就聚集在耶路撒冷。有先知示瑪雅去見羅波安和眾首領，對他們說，耶和華如此說，你們離棄了我，所以我使你們落在示撒手裡。
Then came Shemaiah the prophet to Rehoboam, and to the princes of Judah, that were gathered together to Jerusalem because of Shishak, and said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, Ye have forsaken me, and therefore have I also left you in the hand of Shishak.

12:6    於是王和以色列的眾首領都自卑說，耶和華是公義的。
Whereupon the princes of Israel and the king humbled themselves; and they said, The LORD is righteous.

12:7    耶和華見他們自卑，耶和華的話就臨到示瑪雅說，他們既自卑，我必不滅絕他們。必使他們略得拯救，我不藉著示撒的手將我的怒氣倒在耶路撒冷。
And when the LORD saw that they humbled themselves, the word of the LORD came to Shemaiah, saying, They have humbled themselves; therefore I will not destroy them, but I will grant them some deliverance; and my wrath shall not be poured out upon Jerusalem by the hand of Shishak.

12:8    然而他們必作示撒的僕人，好叫他們知道，服事我與服事外邦人有何分別。
Nevertheless they shall be his servants; that they may know my service, and the service of the kingdoms of the countries.

12:9    於是，埃及王示撒上來攻取耶路撒冷，奪了耶和華殿和王宮裡的寶物，盡都帶走，又奪去所羅門製造的金盾牌。
So Shishak king of Egypt came up against Jerusalem, and took away the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king's house; he took all: he carried away also the shields of gold which Solomon had made.

12:10    羅波安王制造銅盾牌代替那金盾牌，交給守王宮門的護衛長看守。
Instead of which king Rehoboam made shields of brass, and committed them to the hands of the chief of the guard, that kept the entrance of the king's house.

12:11    王每逢進耶和華的殿，護衛兵就拿這盾牌，隨後仍將盾牌送回，放在護衛房。
And when the king entered into the house of the LORD, the guard came and fetched them, and brought them again into the guard chamber.

12:12    王自卑的時候，耶和華的怒氣就轉消了，不將他滅盡，並且在猶大中間也有善益的事。
And when he humbled himself, the wrath of the LORD turned from him, that he would not destroy him altogether: and also in Judah things went well.

12:13    羅波安王自強，在耶路撒冷作王。他登基的時候年四十一歲，在耶路撒冷，就是耶和華從以色列眾支派中所選擇立他名的城，作王十七年。羅波安的母親名叫拿瑪，是亞捫人。
So king Rehoboam strengthened himself in Jerusalem, and reigned: for Rehoboam was one and forty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned seventeen years in Jerusalem, the city which the LORD had chosen out of all the tribes of Israel, to put his name there. And his mother's name was Naamah an Ammonitess.

12:14    羅波安行惡，因他不立定心意尋求耶和華。
And he did evil, because he prepared not his heart to seek the LORD.

12:15    羅波安所行的事，自始至終不都寫在先知示瑪雅和先見易多的史記上嗎。羅波安與耶羅波安時常爭戰。
Now the acts of Rehoboam, first and last, are they not written in the book of Shemaiah the prophet, and of Iddo the seer concerning genealogies? And there were wars between Rehoboam and Jeroboam continually.

12:16    羅波安與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城裡。他兒子亞比雅接續他作王。
And Rehoboam slept with his fathers, and was buried in the city of David: and Abijah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


13:1    耶羅波安王十八年，亞比雅登基作猶大王，
Now in the eighteenth year of king Jeroboam began Abijah to reign over Judah.

13:2    在耶路撒冷作王三年。他母親名叫米該亞（又作瑪迦），是基比亞人烏列的女兒。亞比雅常與耶羅波安爭戰。
He reigned three years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Michaiah the daughter of Uriel of Gibeah. And there was war between Abijah and Jeroboam.

13:3    有一次亞比雅率領挑選的兵四十萬擺陣，都是勇敢的戰士。耶羅波安也挑選大能的勇士八十萬，對亞比雅擺陣。
And Abijah set the battle in array with an army of valiant men of war, even four hundred thousand chosen men: Jeroboam also set the battle in array against him with eight hundred thousand chosen men, being mighty men of valour.

13:4    亞比雅站在以法蓮山地中的洗瑪臉山上，說，耶羅波安和以色列眾人哪，要聽我說。
And Abijah stood up upon mount Zemaraim, which is in mount Ephraim, and said, Hear me, thou Jeroboam, and all Israel;

13:5    耶和華以色列的神曾立鹽約（鹽即不廢壞的意思），將以色列國永遠賜給大衛和他的子孫，你們不知道嗎。
Ought ye not to know that the LORD God of Israel gave the kingdom over Israel to David for ever, even to him and to his sons by a covenant of salt?

13:6    無奈大衛兒子所羅門的臣僕，尼八兒子耶羅波安起來背叛他的主人。
Yet Jeroboam the son of Nebat, the servant of Solomon the son of David, is risen up, and hath rebelled against his lord.

13:7    有些無賴的匪徒聚集跟從他，逞強攻擊所羅門的兒子羅波安。那時羅波安還幼弱，不能抵擋他們。
And there are gathered unto him vain men, the children of Belial, and have strengthened themselves against Rehoboam the son of Solomon, when Rehoboam was young and tenderhearted, and could not withstand them.

13:8    現在你們有意抗拒大衛子孫手下所治耶和華的國，你們的人也甚多，你們那裡又有耶羅波安為你們所造當作神的金牛犢。
And now ye think to withstand the kingdom of the LORD in the hand of the sons of David; and ye be a great multitude, and there are with you golden calves, which Jeroboam made you for gods.

13:9    你們不是驅逐耶和華的祭司亞倫的後裔和利未人嗎。不是照著外邦人的惡俗為自己立祭司嗎。無論何人牽一隻公牛犢，七隻公綿羊將自己分別出來，就可作虛無之神的祭司。
Have ye not cast out the priests of the LORD, the sons of Aaron, and the Levites, and have made you priests after the manner of the nations of other lands? so that whosoever cometh to consecrate himself with a young bullock and seven rams, the same may be a priest of them that are no gods.

13:10    至於我們，耶和華是我們的神，我們並沒有離棄他。我們有事奉耶和華的祭司，都是亞倫的後裔，並有利未人各盡其職，
But as for us, the LORD is our God, and we have not forsaken him; and the priests, which minister unto the LORD, are the sons of Aaron, and the Levites wait upon their business:

13:11    每日早晚向耶和華獻燔祭，燒美香，又在精金的桌子上擺陳設餅。又有金燈臺和燈盞，每晚點起，因為我們遵守耶和華我們神的命。惟有你們離棄了他。
And they burn unto the LORD every morning and every evening burnt sacrifices and sweet incense: the shewbread also set they in order upon the pure table; and the candlestick of gold with the lamps thereof, to burn every evening: for we keep the charge of the LORD our God; but ye have forsaken him.

13:12    率領我們的是神，我們這裡也有神的祭司拿號向你們吹出大聲。以色列人哪，不要與耶和華你們列祖的神爭戰，因你們必不能亨通。
And, behold, God himself is with us for our captain, and his priests with sounding trumpets to cry alarm against you. O children of Israel, fight ye not against the LORD God of your fathers; for ye shall not prosper.

13:13    耶羅波安卻在猶大人的後頭設伏兵。這樣，以色列人在猶大人的前頭，伏兵在猶大人的後頭。
But Jeroboam caused an ambushment to come about behind them: so they were before Judah, and the ambushment was behind them.

13:14    猶大人回頭觀看，見前後都有敵兵，就呼求耶和華，祭司也吹號。
And when Judah looked back, behold, the battle was before and behind: and they cried unto the LORD, and the priests sounded with the trumpets.

13:15    於是猶大人吶喊。猶大人吶喊的時候，神就使耶羅波安和以色列眾人敗在亞比雅與猶大人面前。
Then the men of Judah gave a shout: and as the men of Judah shouted, it came to pass, that God smote Jeroboam and all Israel before Abijah and Judah.

13:16    以色列人在猶大人面前逃跑，神將他們交在猶大人手裡。
And the children of Israel fled before Judah: and God delivered them into their hand.

13:17    亞比雅和他的軍兵大大殺戮以色列人，以色列人仆倒死亡的精兵有五十萬。
And Abijah and his people slew them with a great slaughter: so there fell down slain of Israel five hundred thousand chosen men.

13:18    那時，以色列人被制伏了，猶大人得勝，是因倚靠耶和華他們列祖的神。
Thus the children of Israel were brought under at that time, and the children of Judah prevailed, because they relied upon the LORD God of their fathers.

13:19    亞比雅追趕耶羅波安，攻取了他的幾座城，就是伯特利和屬伯特利的鎮市，耶沙拿和屬耶沙拿的鎮市，以法拉音（或作以弗倫）和屬以法拉音的鎮市。
And Abijah pursued after Jeroboam, and took cities from him, Bethel with the towns thereof, and Jeshanah with the towns thereof, and Ephrain with the towns thereof.

13:20    亞比雅在世的時候，耶羅波安不能再強盛。耶和華攻擊他，他就死了。
Neither did Jeroboam recover strength again in the days of Abijah: and the LORD struck him, and he died.

13:21    亞比雅卻漸漸強盛，娶妻妾十四個，生了二十二個兒子，十六個女兒。
But Abijah waxed mighty, and married fourteen wives, and begat twenty and two sons, and sixteen daughters.

13:22    亞比雅其餘的事和他的言行都寫在先知易多的傳上。
And the rest of the acts of Abijah, and his ways, and his sayings, are written in the story of the prophet Iddo.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


14:1    亞比雅與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城裡。他兒子亞撒接續他作王。亞撒年間，國中太平十年。
So Abijah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David: and Asa his son reigned in his stead. In his days the land was quiet ten years.

14:2    亞撒行耶和華他神眼中看為善為正的事，
And Asa did that which was good and right in the eyes of the LORD his God:

14:3    除掉外邦神的壇和邱壇，打碎柱像，砍下木偶，
For he took away the altars of the strange gods, and the high places, and brake down the images, and cut down the groves:

14:4    吩咐猶大人尋求耶和華他們列祖的神，遵行他的律法，誡命。
And commanded Judah to seek the LORD God of their fathers, and to do the law and the commandment.

14:5    又在猶大各城邑除掉邱壇和日像，那時國享太平。
Also he took away out of all the cities of Judah the high places and the images: and the kingdom was quiet before him.

14:6    又在猶大建造了幾座堅固城。國中太平數年，沒有戰爭，因為耶和華賜他平安。
And he built fenced cities in Judah: for the land had rest, and he had no war in those years; because the LORD had given him rest.

14:7    他對猶大人說，我們要建造這些城邑，四圍築牆，蓋樓，安門，作閂。地還屬我們，是因尋求耶和華我們的神。我們既尋求他，他就賜我們四境平安。於是建造城邑，諸事亨通。
Therefore he said unto Judah, Let us build these cities, and make about them walls, and towers, gates, and bars, while the land is yet before us; because we have sought the LORD our God, we have sought him, and he hath given us rest on every side. So they built and prospered.

14:8    亞撒的軍兵，出自猶大拿盾牌拿槍的三十萬人。出自便雅憫拿盾牌拉弓的二十八萬人。這都是大能的勇士。
And Asa had an army of men that bare targets and spears, out of Judah three hundred thousand; and out of Benjamin, that bare shields and drew bows, two hundred and fourscore thousand: all these were mighty men of valour.

14:9    有古實王謝拉率領軍兵一百萬，戰車三百輛，出來攻擊猶大人，到了瑪利沙。
And there came out against them Zerah the Ethiopian with an host of a thousand thousand, and three hundred chariots; and came unto Mareshah.

14:10    於是亞撒出去與他迎敵，就在瑪利沙的洗法谷彼此擺陣。
Then Asa went out against him, and they set the battle in array in the valley of Zephathah at Mareshah.

14:11    亞撒呼求耶和華他的神說，耶和華阿，惟有你能幫助軟弱的，勝過強盛的。耶和華我們的神阿，求你幫助我們。因為我們仰賴你，奉你的名來攻擊這大軍。耶和華阿，你是我們的神，不要容人勝過你。
And Asa cried unto the LORD his God, and said, LORD, it is nothing with thee to help, whether with many, or with them that have no power: help us, O LORD our God; for we rest on thee, and in thy name we go against this multitude. O LORD, thou art our God; let not man prevail against thee.

14:12    於是耶和華使古實人敗在亞撒和猶大人面前，古實人就逃跑了。
So the LORD smote the Ethiopians before Asa, and before Judah; and the Ethiopians fled.

14:13    亞撒和跟隨他的軍兵追趕他們，直到基拉耳。古實人被殺的甚多，不能再強盛，因為敗在耶和華與他軍兵面前。猶大人就奪了許多財物，
And Asa and the people that were with him pursued them unto Gerar: and the Ethiopians were overthrown, that they could not recover themselves; for they were destroyed before the LORD, and before his host; and they carried away very much spoil.

14:14    又打破基拉耳四圍的城邑。耶和華使其中的人都甚恐懼。猶大人又將所有的城擄掠一空，因其中的財物甚多，
And they smote all the cities round about Gerar; for the fear of the LORD came upon them: and they spoiled all the cities; for there was exceeding much spoil in them.

14:15    又毀壞了群畜的圈，奪取許多的羊和駱駝，就回耶路撒冷去了。
They smote also the tents of cattle, and carried away sheep and camels in abundance, and returned to Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


15:1    神的靈感動俄德的兒子亞撒利雅。
And the Spirit of God came upon Azariah the son of Oded:

15:2    他出來迎接亞撒，對他說，亞撒和猶大，便雅憫眾人哪，要聽我說，你們若順從耶和華，耶和華必與你們同在。你們若尋求他，就必尋見。你們若離棄他，他必離棄你們。
And he went out to meet Asa, and said unto him, Hear ye me, Asa, and all Judah and Benjamin; The LORD is with you, while ye be with him; and if ye seek him, he will be found of you; but if ye forsake him, he will forsake you.

15:3    以色列人不信真神，沒有訓誨的祭司，也沒有律法，已經好久了。
Now for a long season Israel hath been without the true God, and without a teaching priest, and without law.

15:4    但他們在急難的時候歸向耶和華以色列的神，尋求他，他就被他們尋見。
But when they in their trouble did turn unto the LORD God of Israel, and sought him, he was found of them.

15:5    那時，出入的人不得平安，列國的居民都遭大亂。
And in those times there was no peace to him that went out, nor to him that came in, but great vexations were upon all the inhabitants of the countries.

15:6    這國攻擊那國，這城攻擊那城，互相破壞，因為神用各樣災難擾亂他們。
And nation was destroyed of nation, and city of city: for God did vex them with all adversity.

15:7    現在你們要剛強，不要手軟，因你們所行的必得賞賜。
Be ye strong therefore, and let not your hands be weak: for your work shall be rewarded.

15:8    亞撒聽見這話和俄德兒子先知亞撒利雅的預言，就壯起膽來，在猶大，便雅憫全地，並以法蓮山地所奪的各城，將可憎之物盡都除掉，又在耶和華殿的廊前重新修築耶和華的壇。
And when Asa heard these words, and the prophecy of Oded the prophet, he took courage, and put away the abominable idols out of all the land of Judah and Benjamin, and out of the cities which he had taken from mount Ephraim, and renewed the altar of the LORD, that was before the porch of the LORD.

15:9    又招聚猶大，便雅憫的眾人，並他們中間寄居的以法蓮人，瑪拿西人，西緬人。有許多以色列人歸降亞撒，因見耶和華他的神與他同在。
And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin, and the strangers with them out of Ephraim and Manasseh, and out of Simeon: for they fell to him out of Israel in abundance, when they saw that the LORD his God was with him.

15:10    亞撒十五年三月，他們都聚集在耶路撒冷。
So they gathered themselves together at Jerusalem in the third month, in the fifteenth year of the reign of Asa.

15:11    當日他們從所取的擄物中，將牛七百隻，羊七千只獻給耶和華。
And they offered unto the LORD the same time, of the spoil which they had brought, seven hundred oxen and seven thousand sheep.

15:12    他們就立約，要盡心儘性地尋求耶和華他們列祖的神。
And they entered into a covenant to seek the LORD God of their fathers with all their heart and with all their soul;

15:13    凡不尋求耶和華以色列神的，無論大小，男女，必被治死。
That whosoever would not seek the LORD God of Israel should be put to death, whether small or great, whether man or woman.

15:14    他們就大聲歡呼，吹號吹角，向耶和華起誓。
And they sware unto the LORD with a loud voice, and with shouting, and with trumpets, and with cornets.

15:15    猶大眾人為所起的誓歡喜。因他們是盡心起誓，盡意尋求耶和華，耶和華就被他們尋見，且賜他們四境平安。
And all Judah rejoiced at the oath: for they had sworn with all their heart, and sought him with their whole desire; and he was found of them: and the LORD gave them rest round about.

15:16    亞撒王貶了他祖母瑪迦太后的位，因她造了可憎的偶像亞舍拉。亞撒砍下她的偶像，搗得粉碎，燒在汲淪溪邊。
And also concerning Maachah the mother of Asa the king, he removed her from being queen, because she had made an idol in a grove: and Asa cut down her idol, and stamped it, and burnt it at the brook Kidron.

15:17    只是邱壇還沒有從以色列中廢去，然而亞撒的心一生誠實。
But the high places were not taken away out of Israel: nevertheless the heart of Asa was perfect all his days.



15:18    亞撒將他父所分別為聖，與自己所分別為聖的金銀和器皿都奉到神的殿裡。
And he brought into the house of God the things that his father had dedicated, and that he himself had dedicated, silver, and gold, and vessels.

15:19    從這時直到亞撒三十五年，都沒有爭戰的事。
And there was no more war unto the five and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


16:1    亞撒三十六年，以色列王巴沙上來攻擊猶大，修築拉瑪，不許人從猶大王亞撒那裡出入。
In the six and thirtieth year of the reign of Asa Baasha king of Israel came up against Judah, and built Ramah, to the intent that he might let none go out or come in to Asa king of Judah.

16:2    於是亞撒從耶和華殿和王宮的府庫裡拿出金銀來，送與住大馬士革的亞蘭王便哈達，說，
Then Asa brought out silver and gold out of the treasures of the house of the LORD and of the king's house, and sent to Benhadad king of Syria, that dwelt at Damascus, saying,

16:3    你父曾與我父立約，我與你也要立約。現在我將金銀送給你，求你廢掉你與以色列王巴沙所立的約，使他離開我。
There is a league between me and thee, as there was between my father and thy father: behold, I have sent thee silver and gold; go, break thy league with Baasha king of Israel, that he may depart from me.

16:4    便哈達聽從亞撒王的話，派軍長去攻擊以色列的城邑。他們就攻破以雲，但，亞伯瑪音，和拿弗他利一切的積貨城。
And Benhadad hearkened unto king Asa, and sent the captains of his armies against the cities of Israel; and they smote Ijon, and Dan, and Abelmaim, and all the store cities of Naphtali.

16:5    巴沙聽見就停工，不修築拉瑪了。
And it came to pass, when Baasha heard it, that he left off building of Ramah, and let his work cease.

16:6    於是亞撒王率領猶大眾人，將巴沙修築拉瑪所用的石頭，木頭都運去，用以修築迦巴和米斯巴。
Then Asa the king took all Judah; and they carried away the stones of Ramah, and the timber thereof, wherewith Baasha was building; and he built therewith Geba and Mizpah.

16:7    那時，先見哈拿尼來見猶大王亞撒，對他說，因你仰賴亞蘭王，沒有仰賴耶和華你的神，所以亞蘭王的軍兵脫離了你的手。
And at that time Hanani the seer came to Asa king of Judah, and said unto him, Because thou hast relied on the king of Syria, and not relied on the LORD thy God, therefore is the host of the king of Syria escaped out of thine hand.

16:8    古實人，路比人的軍隊不是甚大嗎。戰車馬兵不是極多嗎。只因你仰賴耶和華，他便將他們交在你手裡。
Were not the Ethiopians and the Lubims a huge host, with very many chariots and horsemen? yet, because thou didst rely on the LORD, he delivered them into thine hand.

16:9    耶和華的眼目遍察全地，要顯大能幫助向他心存誠實的人。你這事行得愚昧。此後，你必有爭戰的事。
For the eyes of the LORD run to and fro throughout the whole earth, to shew himself strong in the behalf of them whose heart is perfect toward him. Herein thou hast done foolishly: therefore from henceforth thou shalt have wars.

16:10    亞撒因此惱恨先見，將他囚在監裡。那時亞撒也虐待一些人民。
Then Asa was wroth with the seer, and put him in a prison house; for he was in a rage with him because of this thing. And Asa oppressed some of the people the same time.

16:11    亞撒所行的事，自思至終都寫在猶大和以色列諸王記上。
And, behold, the acts of Asa, first and last, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

16:12    亞撒作王三十九年，他腳上有病，而且甚重。病的時候沒有求耶和華，只求醫生。
And Asa in the thirty and ninth year of his reign was diseased in his feet, until his disease was exceeding great: yet in his disease he sought not to the LORD, but to the physicians.

16:13    他作王四十一年而死，與他列祖同睡，
And Asa slept with his fathers, and died in the one and fortieth year of his reign.

16:14    葬在大衛城自己所鑿的墳墓裡，放在床上，其床堆滿各樣馨香的香料，就是按作香的作法調和的香料，又為他燒了許多的物件。
And they buried him in his own sepulchres, which he had made for himself in the city of David, and laid him in the bed which was filled with sweet odours and divers kinds of spices prepared by the apothecaries' art: and they made a very great burning for him.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


17:1    亞撒的兒子約沙法接續他作王，奮勇自強，防備以色列人，
And Jehoshaphat his son reigned in his stead, and strengthened himself against Israel.

17:2    安置軍兵在猶大一切堅固城裡，又安置防兵在猶大地和他父亞撒所得以法蓮的城邑中。
And he placed forces in all the fenced cities of Judah, and set garrisons in the land of Judah, and in the cities of Ephraim, which Asa his father had taken.

17:3    耶和華與約沙法同在。因為他行他祖大衛初行的道，不尋求巴力，
And the LORD was with Jehoshaphat, because he walked in the first ways of his father David, and sought not unto Baalim;

17:4    只尋求他父親的神，遵行他的誡命，不效法以色列人的行為。
But sought to the Lord God of his father, and walked in his commandments, and not after the doings of Israel.

17:5    所以耶和華堅定他的國，猶大眾人給他進貢。約沙法大有尊榮資財。
Therefore the LORD stablished the kingdom in his hand; and all Judah brought to Jehoshaphat presents; and he had riches and honour in abundance.

17:6    他高興遵行耶和華的道，並且從猶大除掉一切邱壇和木偶。
And his heart was lifted up in the ways of the LORD: moreover he took away the high places and groves out of Judah.

17:7    他作王第三年，就差遣臣子便亥伊勒，俄巴底，撒迦利雅，拿坦業，米該亞往猶大各城去教訓百姓。
Also in the third year of his reign he sent to his princes, even to Benhail, and to Obadiah, and to Zechariah, and to Nethaneel, and to Michaiah, to teach in the cities of Judah.

17:8    同著他們有利未人示瑪雅，尼探雅，西巴第雅，亞撒黑，示米拉末，約拿單，亞多尼雅，多比雅，駝巴多尼雅，又有祭司以利沙瑪，約蘭同著他們。
And with them he sent Levites, even Shemaiah, and Nethaniah, and Zebadiah, and Asahel, and Shemiramoth, and Jehonathan, and Adonijah, and Tobijah, and Tobadonijah, Levites; and with them Elishama and Jehoram, priests.

17:9    他們帶著耶和華的律法書，走遍猶大各城教訓百姓。
And they taught in Judah, and had the book of the law of the LORD with them, and went about throughout all the cities of Judah, and taught the people.



17:10    耶和華使猶大四圍的列國都甚恐懼，不敢與約沙法爭戰。
And the fear of the LORD fell upon all the kingdoms of the lands that were round about Judah, so that they made no war against Jehoshaphat.

17:11    有些非利士人與約沙法送禮物，納貢銀。阿拉伯人也送他公綿羊七千七百隻，公山羊七千七百隻。
Also some of the Philistines brought Jehoshaphat presents, and tribute silver; and the Arabians brought him flocks, seven thousand and seven hundred rams, and seven thousand and seven hundred he goats.

17:12    約沙法日漸強大，在猶大建造營寨和積貨城。
And Jehoshaphat waxed great exceedingly; and he built in Judah castles, and cities of store.

17:13    他在猶大城邑中有許多工程，又在耶路撒冷有戰士，就是大能的勇士。
And he had much business in the cities of Judah: and the men of war, mighty men of valour, were in Jerusalem.

17:14    他們的數目，按著宗族，記在下面，猶大族的，千夫長押拿為首率領大能的勇士三十萬。
And these are the numbers of them according to the house of their fathers: Of Judah, the captains of thousands; Adnah the chief, and with him mighty men of valour three hundred thousand.

17:15    其次是，千夫長約哈難率領大能的勇士二十八萬。
And next to him was Jehohanan the captain, and with him two hundred and fourscore thousand.

17:16    其次是細基利的兒子亞瑪斯雅，他為耶和華犧牲自己，率領大能的勇士二十萬。
And next him was Amasiah the son of Zichri, who willingly offered himself unto the LORD; and with him two hundred thousand mighty men of valour.

17:17    便雅憫族，是大能的勇士以利雅大率領，拿弓箭和盾牌的二十萬。
And of Benjamin; Eliada a mighty man of valour, and with him armed men with bow and shield two hundred thousand.

17:18    其次是，約薩拔率領預備打仗的十八萬。
And next him was Jehozabad, and with him an hundred and fourscore thousand ready prepared for the war.

17:19    這都是伺候王的，還有王在猶大全地堅固城所安置的不在其內。
These waited on the king, beside those whom the king put in the fenced cities throughout all Judah.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


18:1    約沙法大有尊榮資財，就與亞哈結親。
Now Jehoshaphat had riches and honour in abundance, and joined affinity with Ahab.

18:2    過了幾年，他下到撒馬利亞去見亞哈。亞哈為他和跟從他的人宰了許多牛羊，勸他與自己同去攻取基列的拉末。
And after certain years he went down to Ahab to Samaria. And Ahab killed sheep and oxen for him in abundance, and for the people that he had with him, and persuaded him to go up with him to Ramothgilead.

18:3    以色列王亞哈問猶大王約沙法說，你肯同我去攻取基列的拉末嗎。他回答說，你我不分彼此，我的民與你的民一樣，必與你同去爭戰。
And Ahab king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat king of Judah, Wilt thou go with me to Ramothgilead? And he answered him, I am as thou art, and my people as thy people; and we will be with thee in the war.

18:4    約沙法對以色列王說，請你先求問耶和華。
And Jehoshaphat said unto the king of Israel, Enquire, I pray thee, at the word of the LORD to day.

18:5    於是以色列王招聚先知四百人，問他們說，我們上去攻取基列的拉末可以不可以。他們說，可以上去，因為神必將那城交在王的手裡。
Therefore the king of Israel gathered together of prophets four hundred men, and said unto them, Shall we go to Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And they said, Go up; for God will deliver it into the king's hand.

18:6    約沙法說，這裡不是還有耶和華的先知，我們可以求問他嗎。
But Jehoshaphat said, Is there not here a prophet of the LORD besides, that we might enquire of him?

18:7    以色列王對約沙法說，還有一個人，是音拉的兒子米該雅。我們可以託他求問耶和華，只是我恨他。因為他指著我所說的預言，不說吉語，常說凶言。約沙法說，王不必這樣說。
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, There is yet one man, by whom we may enquire of the LORD: but I hate him; for he never prophesied good unto me, but always evil: the same is Micaiah the son of Imla. And Jehoshaphat said, Let not the king say so.

18:8    以色列王就召了一個太監來，說，你快去將音拉的兒子米該雅召來。
And the king of Israel called for one of his officers, and said, Fetch quickly Micaiah the son of Imla.

18:9    以色列王和猶大王約沙法在撒馬利亞城門前的空場上，各穿朝服坐在位上，所有的先知都在他們面前說預言。
And the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat king of Judah sat either of them on his throne, clothed in their robes, and they sat in a void place at the entering in of the gate of Samaria; and all the prophets prophesied before them.

18:10    基拿拿的兒子西底家造了兩個鐵角，說，耶和華如此說，你要用這角牴觸亞蘭人，直到將他們滅盡。
And Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah had made him horns of iron, and said, Thus saith the LORD, With these thou shalt push Syria until they be consumed.

18:11    所有的先知也都這樣預言說，可以上基列的拉末去，必然得勝，因為耶和華必將那城交在王的手中。
And all the prophets prophesied so, saying, Go up to Ramothgilead, and prosper: for the LORD shall deliver it into the hand of the king.

18:12    那去召米該雅的使者對米該雅說，眾先知一口同音地都向王說吉言，你不如與他們說一樣的話，也說吉言。
And the messenger that went to call Micaiah spake to him, saying, Behold, the words of the prophets declare good to the king with one assent; let thy word therefore, I pray thee, be like one of theirs, and speak thou good.

18:13    米該雅說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，我的神說什麼，我就說什麼。
And Micaiah said, As the LORD liveth, even what my God saith, that will I speak.

18:14    米該雅到王面前，王問他說，米該雅阿，我們上去攻取基列的拉末可以不可以。他說，可以上去，必然得勝，敵人必交在你們手裡。
And when he was come to the king, the king said unto him, Micaiah, shall we go to Ramothgilead to battle, or shall I forbear? And he said, Go ye up, and prosper, and they shall be delivered into your hand.

18:15    王對他說，我當囑咐你幾次，你才奉耶和華的名向我說實話呢。
And the king said to him, How many times shall I adjure thee that thou say nothing but the truth to me in the name of the LORD?

18:16    米該雅說，我看見以色列眾民散在山上，如同沒有牧人的羊群一般。耶和華說，這民沒有主人，他們可以平平安安地各歸各家去。
Then he said, I did see all Israel scattered upon the mountains, as sheep that have no shepherd: and the LORD said, These have no master; let them return therefore every man to his house in peace.

18:17    以色列王對約沙法說，我豈沒有告訴你，這人指著我所說的預言，不說吉語，單說凶言嗎。
And the king of Israel said to Jehoshaphat, Did I not tell thee that he would not prophesy good unto me, but evil?

18:18    米該雅說，你們要聽耶和華的話。我看見耶和華坐在寶座上，天上的萬軍侍立在他左右。
Again he said, Therefore hear the word of the LORD; I saw the LORD sitting upon his throne, and all the host of heaven standing on his right hand and on his left.

18:19    耶和華說，誰去引誘以色列王亞哈上基列的拉末去陣亡呢。這個就這樣說，那個就那樣說。
And the LORD said, Who shall entice Ahab king of Israel, that he may go up and fall at Ramothgilead? And one spake saying after this manner, and another saying after that manner.

18:20    隨後，有一個神靈出來，站在耶和華面前說，我去引誘他。耶和華問他說，你用何法呢。
Then there came out a spirit, and stood before the LORD, and said, I will entice him. And the LORD said unto him, Wherewith?

18:21    他說，我去，要在他眾先知口中作謊言的靈。耶和華說，這樣，你必能引誘他，你去如此行吧。
And he said, I will go out, and be a lying spirit in the mouth of all his prophets. And the Lord said, Thou shalt entice him, and thou shalt also prevail: go out, and do even so.

18:22    現在耶和華使謊言的靈入了你這些先知的口，並且耶和華已經命定降禍與你。
Now therefore, behold, the LORD hath put a lying spirit in the mouth of these thy prophets, and the LORD hath spoken evil against thee.

18:23    基拿拿的兒子西底家前來打米該雅的臉，說，耶和華的靈從哪裡離開我與你說話呢。
Then Zedekiah the son of Chenaanah came near, and smote Micaiah upon the cheek, and said, Which way went the Spirit of the LORD from me to speak unto thee?

18:24    米該雅說，你進嚴密的屋子藏躲的那日，就必看見了。
And Micaiah said, Behold, thou shalt see on that day when thou shalt go into an inner chamber to hide thyself.

18:25    以色列王說，將米該雅帶回，交給邑宰亞們和王的兒子約阿施，說，
Then the king of Israel said, Take ye Micaiah, and carry him back to Amon the governor of the city, and to Joash the king's son;

18:26    王如此說，把這個人下在監裡，使他受苦，吃不飽喝不足，等候我平平安安地回來。
And say, Thus saith the king, Put this fellow in the prison, and feed him with bread of affliction and with water of affliction, until I return in peace.

18:27    米該雅說，你若能平安回來，那就是耶和華沒有藉我說這話了。又說，眾民哪，你們都要聽。
And Micaiah said, If thou certainly return in peace, then hath not the LORD spoken by me. And he said, Hearken, all ye people.

18:28    以色列王和猶大王約沙法上基列的拉末去了。
So the king of Israel and Jehoshaphat the king of Judah went up to Ramothgilead.

18:29    以色列王對約沙法說，我要改裝上陣，你可以仍穿王服。於是以色列王改裝，他們就上陣去了。
And the king of Israel said unto Jehoshaphat, I will disguise myself, and will go to the battle; but put thou on thy robes. So the king of Israel disguised himself; and they went to the battle.

18:30    先是亞蘭王吩咐車兵長說，他們的兵將，無論大小，你們都不可與他們爭戰，只要與以色列王爭戰。
Now the king of Syria had commanded the captains of the chariots that were with him, saying, Fight ye not with small or great, save only with the king of Israel.

18:31    車兵長看見約沙法便說，這必是以色列王，就轉過去與他爭戰。約沙法一呼喊，耶和華就幫助他，神又感動他們離開他。
And it came to pass, when the captains of the chariots saw Jehoshaphat, that they said, It is the king of Israel. Therefore they compassed about him to fight: but Jehoshaphat cried out, and the LORD helped him; and God moved them to depart from him.

18:32    車兵長見不是以色列王，就轉去不追他了。
For it came to pass, that, when the captains of the chariots perceived that it was not the king of Israel, they turned back again from pursuing him.

18:33    有一人隨便開弓，恰巧射入以色列王的甲縫裡。王對趕車的說，我受了重傷，你轉過車來，拉我出陣吧。
And a certain man drew a bow at a venture, and smote the king of Israel between the joints of the harness: therefore he said to his chariot man, Turn thine hand, that thou mayest carry me out of the host; for I am wounded.

18:34    那日陣勢越戰越猛，以色列王勉強站在車上抵擋亞蘭人，直到晚上。約在日落的時候，王就死了。
And the battle increased that day: howbeit the king of Israel stayed himself up in his chariot against the Syrians until the even: and about the time of the sun going down he died.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


19:1    猶大王約沙法平平安安地回耶路撒冷，到宮裡去了。
And Jehoshaphat the king of Judah returned to his house in peace to Jerusalem.

19:2    先見哈拿尼的兒子耶戶出來迎接約沙法王，對他說，你豈當幫助惡人，愛那恨惡耶和華的人呢。因此耶和華的忿怒臨到你。
And Jehu the son of Hanani the seer went out to meet him, and said to king Jehoshaphat, Shouldest thou help the ungodly, and love them that hate the LORD? therefore is wrath upon thee from before the LORD.

19:3    然而你還有善行，因你從國中除掉木偶，立定心意尋求神。
Nevertheless there are good things found in thee, in that thou hast taken away the groves out of the land, and hast prepared thine heart to seek God.

19:4    約沙法住在耶路撒冷，以後又出巡民間，從別是巴直到以法蓮山地，引導民歸向耶和華他們列祖的神。
And Jehoshaphat dwelt at Jerusalem: and he went out again through the people from Beersheba to mount Ephraim, and brought them back unto the LORD God of their fathers.

19:5    又在猶大國中遍地的堅固城裡設立審判官，
And he set judges in the land throughout all the fenced cities of Judah, city by city,

19:6    對他們說，你們辦事應當謹慎。因為你們判斷不是為人，乃是為耶和華。判斷的時候，他必與你們同在。
And said to the judges, Take heed what ye do: for ye judge not for man, but for the LORD, who is with you in the judgment.

19:7    現在你們應當敬畏耶和華，謹慎辦事。因為耶和華我們的神沒有不義，不偏待人，也不受賄賂。
Wherefore now let the fear of the LORD be upon you; take heed and do it: for there is no iniquity with the LORD our God, nor respect of persons, nor taking of gifts.

19:8    約沙法從利未人和祭司，並以色列族長中派定人，在耶路撒冷為耶和華判斷，聽民間的爭訟，就回耶路撒冷去了。
Moreover in Jerusalem did Jehoshaphat set of the Levites, and of the priests, and of the chief of the fathers of Israel, for the judgment of the LORD, and for controversies, when they returned to Jerusalem.

19:9    約沙法囑咐他們說，你們當敬畏耶和華，忠心誠實辦事。
And he charged them, saying, Thus shall ye do in the fear of the LORD, faithfully, and with a perfect heart.

19:10    住在各城裡你們的弟兄，若有爭訟的事來到你們這裡，或為流血，或犯律法，誡命，律例，典章，你們要警戒他們，免得他們得罪耶和華，以致他的忿怒臨到你們和你們的弟兄。這樣行，你們就沒有罪了。
And what cause soever shall come to you of your brethren that dwell in their cities, between blood and blood, between law and commandment, statutes and judgments, ye shall even warn them that they trespass not against the LORD, and so wrath come upon you, and upon your brethren: this do, and ye shall not trespass.

19:11    凡屬耶和華的事，有大祭司亞瑪利雅管理你們。凡屬王的事，有猶大支派的族長以實瑪利的兒子西巴第雅管理你們。在你們面前有利未人作官長。你們應當壯膽辦事，願耶和華與善人同在。
And, behold, Amariah the chief priest is over you in all matters of the LORD; and Zebadiah the son of Ishmael, the ruler of the house of Judah, for all the king's matters: also the Levites shall be officers before you. Deal courageously, and the LORD shall be with the good.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


20:1    此後，摩押人和亞捫人，又有米烏尼人，一同來攻擊約沙法。
It came to pass after this also, that the children of Moab, and the children of Ammon, and with them other beside the Ammonites, came against Jehoshaphat to battle.

20:2    有人來報告約沙法說，從海外亞蘭（又作以東）那邊有大軍來攻擊你，如今他們在哈洗遜他瑪，就是隱基底。
Then there came some that told Jehoshaphat, saying, There cometh a great multitude against thee from beyond the sea on this side Syria; and, behold, they be in Hazazontamar, which is Engedi.

20:3    約沙法便懼怕，定意尋求耶和華，在猶大全地宣告禁食。
And Jehoshaphat feared, and set himself to seek the LORD, and proclaimed a fast throughout all Judah.

20:4    於是猶大人聚會，求耶和華幫助。猶大各城都有人出來尋求耶和華。
And Judah gathered themselves together, to ask help of the LORD: even out of all the cities of Judah they came to seek the LORD.

20:5    約沙法就在猶大和耶路撒冷的會中，站在耶和華殿的新院前，
And Jehoshaphat stood in the congregation of Judah and Jerusalem, in the house of the LORD, before the new court,

20:6    說，耶和華我們列祖的神阿，你不是天上的神嗎。你不是萬邦萬國的主宰嗎。在你手中有大能大力，無人能抵擋你。
And said, O LORD God of our fathers, art not thou God in heaven? and rulest not thou over all the kingdoms of the heathen? and in thine hand is there not power and might, so that none is able to withstand thee?

20:7    我們的神阿，你不是曾在你民以色列人面前驅逐這地的居民，將這地賜給你朋友亞伯拉罕的後裔永遠為業嗎。
Art not thou our God, who didst drive out the inhabitants of this land before thy people Israel, and gavest it to the seed of Abraham thy friend for ever?

20:8    他們住在這地，又為你的名建造聖所，說，
And they dwelt therein, and have built thee a sanctuary therein for thy name, saying,



20:9    倘有禍患臨到我們，或刀兵災殃，或瘟疫饑荒，我們在急難的時候，站在這殿前向你呼求，你必垂聽而拯救，因為你的名在這殿裡。
If, when evil cometh upon us, as the sword, judgment, or pestilence, or famine, we stand before this house, and in thy presence, (for thy name is in this house,) and cry unto thee in our affliction, then thou wilt hear and help.

20:10    從前以色列人出埃及地的時候，你不容以色列人侵犯亞捫人，摩押人，和西珥山人，以色列人就離開他們，不滅絕他們。
And now, behold, the children of Ammon and Moab and mount Seir, whom thou wouldest not let Israel invade, when they came out of the land of Egypt, but they turned from them, and destroyed them not;

20:11    看哪，他們怎樣報復我們，要來驅逐我們出離你的地，就是你賜給我們為業之地。
Behold, I say, how they reward us, to come to cast us out of thy possession, which thou hast given us to inherit.

20:12    我們的神阿，你不懲罰他們嗎。因為我們無力抵擋這來攻擊我們的大軍，我們也不知道怎樣行，我們的眼目單仰望你。
O our God, wilt thou not judge them? for we have no might against this great company that cometh against us; neither know we what to do: but our eyes are upon thee.

20:13    猶大眾人和他們的嬰孩，妻子，兒女都站在耶和華面前。
And all Judah stood before the LORD, with their little ones, their wives, and their children.

20:14    那時，耶和華的靈在會中臨到利未人亞薩的後裔瑪探雅的玄孫，耶利的曾孫，比拿雅的孫子，撒迦利雅的兒子雅哈悉。
Then upon Jahaziel the son of Zechariah, the son of Benaiah, the son of Jeiel, the son of Mattaniah, a Levite of the sons of Asaph, came the Spirit of the LORD in the midst of the congregation;

20:15    他說，猶大眾人，耶路撒冷的居民，和約沙法王，你們請聽。耶和華對你們如此說，不要因這大軍恐懼驚惶。因為勝敗不在乎你們，乃在乎神。
And he said, Hearken ye, all Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem, and thou king Jehoshaphat, Thus saith the LORD unto you, Be not afraid nor dismayed by reason of this great multitude; for the battle is not yours, but God's.

20:16    明日你們要下去迎敵，他們是從洗斯坡上來，你們必在耶魯伊勒曠野前的谷口遇見他們。
To morrow go ye down against them: behold, they come up by the cliff of Ziz; and ye shall find them at the end of the brook, before the wilderness of Jeruel.

20:17    猶大和耶路撒冷人哪，這次你們不要爭戰，要擺陣站著，看耶和華為你們施行拯救。不要恐懼，也不要驚惶。明日當出去迎敵，因為耶和華與你們同在。
Ye shall not need to fight in this battle: set yourselves, stand ye still, and see the salvation of the LORD with you, O Judah and Jerusalem: fear not, nor be dismayed; to morrow go out against them: for the LORD will be with you.

20:18    約沙法就面伏於地，猶大眾人和耶路撒冷的居民也俯伏在耶和華面前，叩拜耶和華。
And Jehoshaphat bowed his head with his face to the ground: and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem fell before the LORD, worshipping the LORD.

20:19    哥轄族和可拉族的利未人都起來，用極大的聲音讚美耶和華以色列的神。
And the Levites, of the children of the Kohathites, and of the children of the Korhites, stood up to praise the LORD God of Israel with a loud voice on high.

20:20    次日清早，眾人起來往提哥亞的曠野去。出去的時候，約沙法站著說，猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民哪，要聽我說，信耶和華你們的神就必立穩。信他的先知就必亨通。
And they rose early in the morning, and went forth into the wilderness of Tekoa: and as they went forth, Jehoshaphat stood and said, Hear me, O Judah, and ye inhabitants of Jerusalem; Believe in the LORD your God, so shall ye be established; believe his prophets, so shall ye prosper.

20:21    約沙法既與民商議了，就設立歌唱的人，頌讚耶和華，使他們穿上聖潔的禮服，走在軍前讚美耶和華說，當稱謝耶和華，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And when he had consulted with the people, he appointed singers unto the LORD, and that should praise the beauty of holiness, as they went out before the army, and to say, Praise the LORD; for his mercy endureth for ever.

20:22    眾人方唱歌讚美的時候，耶和華就派伏兵擊殺那來攻擊猶大人的亞捫人，摩押人，和西珥山人，他們就被打敗了。
And when they began to sing and to praise, the LORD set ambushments against the children of Ammon, Moab, and mount Seir, which were come against Judah; and they were smitten.

20:23    因為亞捫人和摩押人起來，擊殺住西珥山的人，將他們滅盡。滅盡住西珥山的人之後，他們又彼此自相擊殺。
For the children of Ammon and Moab stood up against the inhabitants of mount Seir, utterly to slay and destroy them: and when they had made an end of the inhabitants of Seir, every one helped to destroy another.

20:24    猶大人來到曠野的望樓，向那大軍觀看，見屍橫遍地，沒有一個逃脫的。
And when Judah came toward the watch tower in the wilderness, they looked unto the multitude, and, behold, they were dead bodies fallen to the earth, and none escaped.

20:25    約沙法和他的百姓就來收取敵人的財物，在屍首中見了許多財物，珍寶，他們剝脫下來的多得不可攜帶。因為甚多，直收取了三日。
And when Jehoshaphat and his people came to take away the spoil of them, they found among them in abundance both riches with the dead bodies, and precious jewels, which they stripped off for themselves, more than they could carry away: and they were three days in gathering of the spoil, it was so much.

20:26    第四日眾人聚集在比拉迦谷（就是稱頌的意思），在那裡稱頌耶和華。因此那地方名叫比拉迦谷，直到今日。
And on the fourth day they assembled themselves in the valley of Berachah; for there they blessed the LORD: therefore the name of the same place was called, The valley of Berachah, unto this day.

20:27    猶大人和耶路撒冷人都歡歡喜喜地回耶路撒冷，約沙法率領他們。因為耶和華使他們戰勝仇敵，就歡喜快樂。
Then they returned, every man of Judah and Jerusalem, and Jehoshaphat in the forefront of them, to go again to Jerusalem with joy; for the LORD had made them to rejoice over their enemies.

20:28    他們彈琴，鼓瑟，吹號來到耶路撒冷，進了耶和華的殿。
And they came to Jerusalem with psalteries and harps and trumpets unto the house of the LORD.

20:29    列邦諸國聽見耶和華戰敗以色列的仇敵，就甚懼怕。
And the fear of God was on all the kingdoms of those countries, when they had heard that the LORD fought against the enemies of Israel.

20:30    這樣，約沙法的國得享太平，因為神賜他四境平安。
So the realm of Jehoshaphat was quiet: for his God gave him rest round about.

20:31    約沙法作猶大王，登基的時候年三十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王二十五年。他母親名叫阿蘇巴，乃示利希的女兒。
And Jehoshaphat reigned over Judah: he was thirty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and five years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Azubah the daughter of Shilhi.

20:32    約沙法效法他父亞撒所行的，不偏左右，行耶和華眼中看為正的事。
And he walked in the way of Asa his father, and departed not from it, doing that which was right in the sight of the LORD.

20:33    只是邱壇還沒有廢去，百姓也沒有立定心意歸向他們列祖的神。
Howbeit the high places were not taken away: for as yet the people had not prepared their hearts unto the God of their fathers.

20:34    約沙法其餘的事，自始至終都寫在哈拿尼的兒子耶戶的書上，也載入以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoshaphat, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of Jehu the son of Hanani, who is mentioned in the book of the kings of Israel.



20:35    此後，猶大王約沙法與以色列王亞哈謝交好。亞哈謝行惡太甚。
And after this did Jehoshaphat king of Judah join himself with Ahaziah king of Israel, who did very wickedly:

20:36    二王合夥造船要往他施去，遂在以旬迦別造船。
And he joined himself with him to make ships to go to Tarshish: and they made the ships in Eziongaber.

20:37    那時瑪利沙人，多大瓦的兒子以利以謝向約沙法預言說，因你與亞哈謝交好，耶和華必破壞你所造的。後來那船果然破壞，不能往他施去了。
Then Eliezer the son of Dodavah of Mareshah prophesied against Jehoshaphat, saying, Because thou hast joined thyself with Ahaziah, the LORD hath broken thy works. And the ships were broken, that they were not able to go to Tarshish.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


21:1    約沙法與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城他列祖的墳地裡。他兒子約蘭接續他作王。
Now Jehoshaphat slept with his fathers, and was buried with his fathers in the city of David. And Jehoram his son reigned in his stead.

21:2    約蘭有幾個兄弟，就是約沙法的兒子亞撒利雅，耶歇，撒迦利雅，亞撒利雅，米迦勒，示法提雅。這都是猶大王約沙法的兒子。
And he had brethren the sons of Jehoshaphat, Azariah, and Jehiel, and Zechariah, and Azariah, and Michael, and Shephatiah: all these were the sons of Jehoshaphat king of Israel.

21:3    他們的父親將許多金銀，財寶，和猶大地的堅固城賜給他們。但將國賜給約蘭，因為他是長子。
And their father gave them great gifts of silver, and of gold, and of precious things, with fenced cities in Judah: but the kingdom gave he to Jehoram; because he was the firstborn.

21:4    約蘭興起坐他父的位，奮勇自強，就用刀殺了他的眾兄弟和以色列的幾個首領。
Now when Jehoram was risen up to the kingdom of his father, he strengthened himself, and slew all his brethren with the sword, and divers also of the princes of Israel.

21:5    約蘭登基的時候年三十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王八年。
Jehoram was thirty and two years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eight years in Jerusalem.

21:6    他行以色列諸王的道，與亞哈家一樣。因他娶了亞哈的女兒為妻，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事。
And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel, like as did the house of Ahab: for he had the daughter of Ahab to wife: and he wrought that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD.

21:7    耶和華卻因自己與大衛所立的約，不肯滅大衛的家，照他所應許的，永遠賜燈光與大衛和他的子孫。
Howbeit the LORD would not destroy the house of David, because of the covenant that he had made with David, and as he promised to give a light to him and to his sons for ever.

21:8    約蘭年間，以東人背叛猶大，脫離他的權下，自己立王。
In his days the Edomites revolted from under the dominion of Judah, and made themselves a king.

21:9    約蘭就率領軍長和所有的戰車，夜間起來，攻擊圍困他的以東人和車兵長。
Then Jehoram went forth with his princes, and all his chariots with him: and he rose up by night, and smote the Edomites which compassed him in, and the captains of the chariots.

21:10    這樣，以東人背叛猶大，脫離他的權下，直到今日。那時，立拿人也背叛了，因為約蘭離棄耶和華他列祖的神。
So the Edomites revolted from under the hand of Judah unto this day. The same time also did Libnah revolt from under his hand; because he had forsaken the LORD God of his fathers.

21:11    他又在猶大諸山建築邱壇，使耶路撒冷的居民行邪淫，誘惑猶大人。
Moreover he made high places in the mountains of Judah, and caused the inhabitants of Jerusalem to commit fornication, and compelled Judah thereto.

21:12    先知以利亞達信與約蘭說，耶和華你祖大衛的神如此說，因為你不行你父約沙法和猶大王亞撒的道，
And there came a writing to him from Elijah the prophet, saying, Thus saith the LORD God of David thy father, Because thou hast not walked in the ways of Jehoshaphat thy father, nor in the ways of Asa king of Judah,

21:13    乃行以色列諸王的道，使猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民行邪淫，像亞哈家一樣，又殺了你父家比你好的諸兄弟。
But hast walked in the way of the kings of Israel, and hast made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to go a whoring, like to the whoredoms of the house of Ahab, and also hast slain thy brethren of thy father's house, which were better than thyself:

21:14    故此，耶和華降大災與你的百姓和你的妻子，兒女，並你一切所有的。
Behold, with a great plague will the LORD smite thy people, and thy children, and thy wives, and all thy goods:

21:15    你的腸子必患病，日加沉重，以致你的腸子墜落下來。
And thou shalt have great sickness by disease of thy bowels, until thy bowels fall out by reason of the sickness day by day.

21:16    以後，耶和華激動非利士人和靠近古實的阿拉伯人來攻擊約蘭。
Moreover the LORD stirred up against Jehoram the spirit of the Philistines, and of the Arabians, that were near the Ethiopians:

21:17    他們上來攻擊猶大，侵入境內，擄掠了王宮裡所有的財貨和他的妻子，兒女，除了他小兒子約哈斯（又名亞哈謝）之外，沒有留下一個兒子。
And they came up into Judah, and brake into it, and carried away all the substance that was found in the king's house, and his sons also, and his wives; so that there was never a son left him, save Jehoahaz, the youngest of his sons.

21:18    這些事以後，耶和華使約蘭的腸子患不能醫治的病。
And after all this the LORD smote him in his bowels with an incurable disease.

21:19    他患此病纏綿日久，過了二年，腸子墜落下來，病重而死。他的民沒有為他燒什麼物件，像從前為他列祖所燒的一樣。
And it came to pass, that in process of time, after the end of two years, his bowels fell out by reason of his sickness: so he died of sore diseases. And his people made no burning for him, like the burning of his fathers.

21:20    約蘭登基的時候年三十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王八年。他去世無人思慕，眾人葬他在大衛城，只是不在列王的墳墓裡。
Thirty and two years old was he when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem eight years, and departed without being desired. Howbeit they buried him in the city of David, but not in the sepulchres of the kings.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


22:1    耶路撒冷的居民立約蘭的小兒子亞哈謝接續他作王。因為跟隨阿拉伯人來攻營的軍兵曾殺了亞哈謝的眾兄長。這樣，猶大王約蘭的兒子亞哈謝作了王。
And the inhabitants of Jerusalem made Ahaziah his youngest son king in his stead: for the band of men that came with the Arabians to the camp had slain all the eldest. So Ahaziah the son of Jehoram king of Judah reigned.

22:2    亞哈謝登基的時候年四十二歲（列王下八章二十六節作二十二歲），在耶路撒冷作王一年。他母親名叫亞他利雅，是暗利的孫女。
Forty and two years old was Ahaziah when he began to reign, and he reigned one year in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Athaliah the daughter of Omri.

22:3    亞哈謝也行亞哈家的道。因為他母親給他主謀，使他行惡。
He also walked in the ways of the house of Ahab: for his mother was his counsellor to do wickedly.

22:4    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，像亞哈家一樣。因他父親死後有亞哈家的人給他主謀，以致敗壞。
Wherefore he did evil in the sight of the LORD like the house of Ahab: for they were his counsellors after the death of his father to his destruction.

22:5    他聽從亞哈家的計謀，同以色列王亞哈的兒子約蘭往基列的拉末去，與亞蘭王哈薛爭戰。亞蘭人打傷了約蘭。
He walked also after their counsel, and went with Jehoram the son of Ahab king of Israel to war against Hazael king of Syria at Ramothgilead: and the Syrians smote Joram.

22:6    約蘭回到耶斯列，醫治在拉末與亞蘭王哈薛打仗所受的傷，猶大王約蘭的兒子亞撒利雅（即亞哈謝）因為亞哈的兒子約蘭病了，就下到耶斯列看望他。
And he returned to be healed in Jezreel because of the wounds which were given him at Ramah, when he fought with Hazael king of Syria. And Azariah the son of Jehoram king of Judah went down to see Jehoram the son of Ahab at Jezreel, because he was sick.

22:7    亞哈謝去見約蘭就被害了，這是出乎神。因為他到了，就同約蘭出去攻擊寧示的孫子耶戶。這耶戶是耶和華所膏，使他剪除亞哈家的。
And the destruction of Ahaziah was of God by coming to Joram: for when he was come, he went out with Jehoram against Jehu the son of Nimshi, whom the LORD had anointed to cut off the house of Ahab.

22:8    耶戶討亞哈家罪的時候，遇見猶大的眾首領和亞哈謝的眾侄子服事亞哈謝，就把他們都殺了。
And it came to pass, that, when Jehu was executing judgment upon the house of Ahab, and found the princes of Judah, and the sons of the brethren of Ahaziah, that ministered to Ahaziah, he slew them.

22:9    亞哈謝藏在撒馬利亞，耶戶尋梢他，眾人將他拿住，送到耶戶那裡，就殺了他，將他葬埋。因他們說，他是那盡心尋求耶和華之約沙法的兒子。這樣，亞哈謝的家無力保守國權。
And he sought Ahaziah: and they caught him, (for he was hid in Samaria,) and brought him to Jehu: and when they had slain him, they buried him: Because, said they, he is the son of Jehoshaphat, who sought the LORD with all his heart. So the house of Ahaziah had no power to keep still the kingdom.

22:10    亞哈謝的母親亞他利雅見她兒子死了，就起來剿滅猶大王室。
But when Athaliah the mother of Ahaziah saw that her son was dead, she arose and destroyed all the seed royal of the house of Judah.

22:11    但王的女兒約示巴將亞哈謝的兒子約阿施從那被殺的王子中偷出來，把他和他的乳母都藏在臥房裡。約示巴是約蘭王的女兒，亞哈謝的妹子，祭司耶何耶大的妻。她收藏約阿施，躲避亞她利雅，免得被殺。
But Jehoshabeath, the daughter of the king, took Joash the son of Ahaziah, and stole him from among the king's sons that were slain, and put him and his nurse in a bedchamber. So Jehoshabeath, the daughter of king Jehoram, the wife of Jehoiada the priest, (for she was the sister of Ahaziah,) hid him from Athaliah, so that she slew him not.

22:12    約阿施和她們一同藏在神殿裡六年。亞他利雅篡了國位。
And he was with them hid in the house of God six years: and Athaliah reigned over the land.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


23:1    第七年，耶何耶大奮勇自強，將百夫長耶羅罕的兒子亞撒利雅，約哈難的兒子以實瑪利，俄備得的兒子亞撒利雅，亞大雅的兒子瑪西雅，細基利的兒子以利沙法召來，與他們立約。
And in the seventh year Jehoiada strengthened himself, and took the captains of hundreds, Azariah the son of Jeroham, and Ishmael the son of Jehohanan, and Azariah the son of Obed, and Maaseiah the son of Adaiah, and Elishaphat the son of Zichri, into covenant with him.

23:2    他們走遍猶大，從猶大各城裡招聚利未人和以色列的眾族長到耶路撒冷來。
And they went about in Judah, and gathered the Levites out of all the cities of Judah, and the chief of the fathers of Israel, and they came to Jerusalem.

23:3    會眾在神殿裡與王立約。耶何耶大對他們說，看哪，王的兒子必當作王，正如耶和華指著大衛子孫所應許的話。
And all the congregation made a covenant with the king in the house of God. And he said unto them, Behold, the king's son shall reign, as the LORD hath said of the sons of David.

23:4    又說，你們當這樣行，祭司和利未人凡安息日進班的，三分之一要把守各門，
This is the thing that ye shall do; A third part of you entering on the sabbath, of the priests and of the Levites, shall be porters of the doors;

23:5    三分之一要在王宮，三分之一要在基址門。眾百姓要在耶和華殿的院內。
And a third part shall be at the king's house; and a third part at the gate of the foundation: and all the people shall be in the courts of the house of the LORD.

23:6    除了祭司和供職的利未人之外，不準別人進耶和華的殿。惟獨他們可以進去，因為他們聖潔。眾百姓要遵守耶和華所吩咐的。
But let none come into the house of the LORD, save the priests, and they that minister of the Levites; they shall go in, for they are holy: but all the people shall keep the watch of the LORD.

23:7    利未人要手中各拿兵器，四圍護衛王。凡擅入殿宇的，必當治死。王出入的時候，你們當跟隨他。
And the Levites shall compass the king round about, every man with his weapons in his hand; and whosoever else cometh into the house, he shall be put to death: but be ye with the king when he cometh in, and when he goeth out.

23:8    利未人和猶大眾人都照著祭司耶何耶大一切所吩咐的去行，各帶所管安息日進班出班的人來，因為祭司耶何耶大不許他們下班。
So the Levites and all Judah did according to all things that Jehoiada the priest had commanded, and took every man his men that were to come in on the sabbath, with them that were to go out on the sabbath: for Jehoiada the priest dismissed not the courses.

23:9    祭司耶何耶大便將神殿裡所藏大衛王的槍，盾牌，擋牌交給百夫長，
Moreover Jehoiada the priest delivered to the captains of hundreds spears, and bucklers, and shields, that had been king David's, which were in the house of God.

23:10    又分派眾民手中各拿兵器，在壇和殿那裡，從殿右直到殿左，站在王子的四圍。
And he set all the people, every man having his weapon in his hand, from the right side of the temple to the left side of the temple, along by the altar and the temple, by the king round about.

23:11    於是領王子出來，給他戴上冠冕，將律法書交給他，立他作王。耶何耶大和眾子膏他，眾人說，願王萬歲。
Then they brought out the king's son, and put upon him the crown, and gave him the testimony, and made him king. And Jehoiada and his sons anointed him, and said, God save the king.

23:12    亞他利雅聽見民奔走讚美王的聲音，就到民那裡，進耶和華的殿，
Now when Athaliah heard the noise of the people running and praising the king, she came to the people into the house of the LORD:

23:13    看見王站在殿門的柱旁，百夫長和吹號的人侍立在王左右，國民都歡樂吹號，又有歌唱的，用各樣的樂器領人歌唱讚美。亞他利雅就撕裂衣服，喊叫說，反了。反了。
And she looked, and, behold, the king stood at his pillar at the entering in, and the princes and the trumpets by the king: and all the people of the land rejoiced, and sounded with trumpets, also the singers with instruments of musick, and such as taught to sing praise. Then Athaliah rent her clothes, and said, Treason, Treason.

23:14    祭司耶何耶大帶管轄軍兵的百夫長出來，吩咐他們說，將她趕到班外，凡跟隨她的必用刀殺死。因為祭司說，不可在耶和華殿裡殺她。
Then Jehoiada the priest brought out the captains of hundreds that were set over the host, and said unto them, Have her forth of the ranges: and whoso followeth her, let him be slain with the sword. For the priest said, Slay her not in the house of the LORD.

23:15    眾兵就閃開，讓她去。她走到王宮的馬門，便在那裡把她殺了。
So they laid hands on her; and when she was come to the entering of the horse gate by the king's house, they slew her there.

23:16    耶何耶大與眾民和王立約，都要作耶和華的民。
And Jehoiada made a covenant between him, and between all the people, and between the king, that they should be the LORD's people.

23:17    於是眾民都到巴力廟，拆毀了廟，打碎壇和像，又在壇前將巴力的祭司瑪坦殺了。
Then all the people went to the house of Baal, and brake it down, and brake his altars and his images in pieces, and slew Mattan the priest of Baal before the altars.

23:18    耶何耶大派官看守耶和華的殿，是在祭司利未人手下。這祭司利未人是大衛分派在耶和華殿中，照摩西律法上所寫的，給耶和華獻燔祭，又按大衛所定的例，歡樂歌唱。
Also Jehoiada appointed the offices of the house of the LORD by the hand of the priests the Levites, whom David had distributed in the house of the LORD, to offer the burnt offerings of the LORD, as it is written in the law of Moses, with rejoicing and with singing, as it was ordained by David.

23:19    且設立守門的把守耶和華殿的各門，無論為何事，不潔淨的人都不準進去。
And he set the porters at the gates of the house of the LORD, that none which was unclean in any thing should enter in.

23:20    又率領百夫長和貴胄，與民間的官長，並國中的眾民，請王從耶和華殿下來，由上門進入王宮，立王坐在國位上。
And he took the captains of hundreds, and the nobles, and the governors of the people, and all the people of the land, and brought down the king from the house of the LORD: and they came through the high gate into the king's house, and set the king upon the throne of the kingdom.

23:21    國民都歡樂，合城都安靜。眾人已將亞他利雅用刀殺了。
And all the people of the land rejoiced: and the city was quiet, after that they had slain Athaliah with the sword.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


24:1    約阿施登基的時候年七歲，在耶路撒冷作王四十年。他母親名叫西比亞，是別是巴人。
Joash was seven years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Zibiah of Beersheba.

24:2    祭司耶何耶大在世的時候，約阿施行耶和華眼中看為正的事。
And Joash did that which was right in the sight of the LORD all the days of Jehoiada the priest.

24:3    耶何耶大為他娶了兩個妻，並且生兒養女。
And Jehoiada took for him two wives; and he begat sons and daughters.

24:4    此後，約阿施有意重修耶和華的殿，
And it came to pass after this, that Joash was minded to repair the house of the LORD.

24:5    便召聚眾祭司和利未人，吩咐他們說，你們要往猶大各城去，使以色列眾人捐納銀子，每年可以修理你們神的殿。你們要急速辦理這事。只是利未人不急速辦理。
And he gathered together the priests and the Levites, and said to them, Go out unto the cities of Judah, and gather of all Israel money to repair the house of your God from year to year, and see that ye hasten the matter. Howbeit the Levites hastened it not.

24:6    王召了大祭司耶何耶大來，對他說，從前耶和華的僕人摩西，為法櫃的帳幕與以色列會眾所定的捐項，你為何不叫利未人照這例從猶大和耶路撒冷帶來作殿的費用呢。
And the king called for Jehoiada the chief, and said unto him, Why hast thou not required of the Levites to bring in out of Judah and out of Jerusalem the collection, according to the commandment of Moses the servant of the LORD, and of the congregation of Israel, for the tabernacle of witness?

24:7    因為那惡婦亞他利雅的眾子曾拆毀神的殿，又用耶和華殿中分別為聖的物供奉巴力。
For the sons of Athaliah, that wicked woman, had broken up the house of God; and also all the dedicated things of the house of the LORD did they bestow upon Baalim.

24:8    於是王下令，眾人作了一櫃，放在耶和華殿的門外，
And at the king's commandment they made a chest, and set it without at the gate of the house of the LORD.

24:9    又通告猶大和耶路撒冷的百姓，要將神僕人摩西在曠野所吩咐以色列人的捐項給耶和華送來。
And they made a proclamation through Judah and Jerusalem, to bring in to the LORD the collection that Moses the servant of God laid upon Israel in the wilderness.

24:10    眾首領和百姓都歡歡喜喜地將銀子送來，投入櫃中，直到捐完。
And all the princes and all the people rejoiced, and brought in, and cast into the chest, until they had made an end.

24:11    利未人見銀子多了，就把櫃抬到王所派的司事面前。王的書記和大祭司的屬員來將櫃倒空，仍放在原處。日日都是這樣，積蓄的銀子甚多。
Now it came to pass, that at what time the chest was brought unto the king's office by the hand of the Levites, and when they saw that there was much money, the king's scribe and the high priest's officer came and emptied the chest, and took it, and carried it to his place again. Thus they did day by day, and gathered money in abundance.

24:12    王與耶何耶大將銀子交給耶和華殿裡辦事的人，他們就僱了石匠，木匠重修耶和華的殿，又僱了鐵匠，銅匠修理耶和華的殿。
And the king and Jehoiada gave it to such as did the work of the service of the house of the LORD, and hired masons and carpenters to repair the house of the LORD, and also such as wrought iron and brass to mend the house of the LORD.

24:13    工人操作，漸漸修成，將神殿修造得與從前一樣，而且甚是堅固。
So the workmen wrought, and the work was perfected by them, and they set the house of God in his state, and strengthened it.

24:14    工程完了，他們就把其餘的銀子拿到王與耶何耶大面前，用以製造耶和華殿供奉所用的器皿和調羹，並金銀的器皿。耶何耶大在世的時候，眾人常在耶和華殿裡獻燔祭。
And when they had finished it, they brought the rest of the money before the king and Jehoiada, whereof were made vessels for the house of the LORD, even vessels to minister, and to offer withal, and spoons, and vessels of gold and silver. And they offered burnt offerings in the house of the LORD continually all the days of Jehoiada.

24:15    耶何耶大年紀老邁，日子滿足而死。死的時候年一百三十歲，
But Jehoiada waxed old, and was full of days when he died; an hundred and thirty years old was he when he died.



24:16    葬在大衛城列王的墳墓裡。因為他在以色列人中行善，又事奉神，修理神的殿。
And they buried him in the city of David among the kings, because he had done good in Israel, both toward God, and toward his house.

24:17    耶何耶大死後，猶大的眾首領來朝拜王。王就聽從他們。
Now after the death of Jehoiada came the princes of Judah, and made obeisance to the king. Then the king hearkened unto them.

24:18    他們離棄耶和華他們列祖神的殿，去事奉亞舍拉和偶像。因他們這罪，就有忿怒臨到猶大和耶路撒冷。
And they left the house of the LORD God of their fathers, and served groves and idols: and wrath came upon Judah and Jerusalem for this their trespass.

24:19    但神仍遣先知到他們那裡，引導他們歸向耶和華。這先知警戒他們，他們卻不肯聽。
Yet he sent prophets to them, to bring them again unto the LORD; and they testified against them: but they would not give ear.

24:20    那時，神的靈感動祭司耶何耶大的兒子撒迦利亞，他就站在上面對民說，神如此說，你們為何干犯耶和華的誡命，以致不得亨通呢。因為你們離棄耶和華，所以他也離棄你們。
And the Spirit of God came upon Zechariah the son of Jehoiada the priest, which stood above the people, and said unto them, Thus saith God, Why transgress ye the commandments of the LORD, that ye cannot prosper? because ye have forsaken the LORD, he hath also forsaken you.

24:21    眾民同心謀害撒迦利亞，就照王的吩咐，在耶和華殿的院內用石頭打死他。
And they conspired against him, and stoned him with stones at the commandment of the king in the court of the house of the LORD.

24:22    這樣，約阿施王不想念撒迦利亞的父親耶何耶大向自己所施的恩，殺了他的兒子。撒迦利亞臨死的時候說，願耶和華鑑察伸冤。
Thus Joash the king remembered not the kindness which Jehoiada his father had done to him, but slew his son. And when he died, he said, The LORD look upon it, and require it.

24:23    滿了一年，亞蘭的軍兵上來攻擊約阿施，來到猶大和耶路撒冷，殺了民中的眾首領，將所掠的財貨送到大馬士革王那裡。
And it came to pass at the end of the year, that the host of Syria came up against him: and they came to Judah and Jerusalem, and destroyed all the princes of the people from among the people, and sent all the spoil of them unto the king of Damascus.

24:24    亞蘭的軍兵雖來了一小隊，耶和華卻將大隊的軍兵交在他們手裡，是因猶大人離棄耶和華他們列祖的神，所以藉亞蘭人懲罰約阿施。
For the army of the Syrians came with a small company of men, and the LORD delivered a very great host into their hand, because they had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers. So they executed judgment against Joash.

24:25    亞蘭人離開約阿施的時候，他患重病。臣僕背叛他，要報祭司耶何耶大兒子流血之仇，殺他在床上，葬他在大衛城，只是不葬在列王的墳墓裡。
And when they were departed from him, (for they left him in great diseases,) his own servants conspired against him for the blood of the sons of Jehoiada the priest, and slew him on his bed, and he died: and they buried him in the city of David, but they buried him not in the sepulchres of the kings.

24:26    背叛他的是亞捫婦人示米押的兒子撒拔和摩押婦人示米利的兒子約薩拔。
And these are they that conspired against him; Zabad the son of Shimeath an Ammonitess, and Jehozabad the son of Shimrith a Moabitess.

24:27    至於他的眾子和他所受的警戒，並他重修神殿的事，都寫在列王的傳上。他兒子亞瑪謝接續他作王。
Now concerning his sons, and the greatness of the burdens laid upon him, and the repairing of the house of God, behold, they are written in the story of the book of the kings. And Amaziah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


25:1    亞瑪謝登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王二十九年。他母親名叫約耶但，是耶路撒冷人。
Amaziah was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned twenty and nine years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Jehoaddan of Jerusalem.

25:2    亞瑪謝行耶和華眼中看為正的事，只是心不專誠。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, but not with a perfect heart.

25:3    國一堅定，就把殺他父王的臣僕殺了，
Now it came to pass, when the kingdom was established to him, that he slew his servants that had killed the king his father.

25:4    卻沒有治死他們的兒子，是照摩西律法書上耶和華所吩咐的說，不可因子殺父，也不可因父殺子，各人要為本身的罪而死。
But he slew not their children, but did as it is written in the law in the book of Moses, where the LORD commanded, saying, The fathers shall not die for the children, neither shall the children die for the fathers, but every man shall die for his own sin.

25:5    亞瑪謝招聚猶大人，按著猶大和便雅憫的宗族設立千夫長，百夫長，又數點人數，從二十歲以外，能拿槍拿盾牌出去打仗的精兵共有三十萬。
Moreover Amaziah gathered Judah together, and made them captains over thousands, and captains over hundreds, according to the houses of their fathers, throughout all Judah and Benjamin: and he numbered them from twenty years old and above, and found them three hundred thousand choice men, able to go forth to war, that could handle spear and shield.

25:6    又用銀子一百他連得，從以色列招募了十萬大能的勇士。
He hired also an hundred thousand mighty men of valour out of Israel for an hundred talents of silver.

25:7    有一個神人來見亞瑪謝，對他說，王阿，不要使以色列的軍兵與你同去，因為耶和華不與以色列人以法蓮的後裔同在。
But there came a man of God to him, saying, O king, let not the army of Israel go with thee; for the LORD is not with Israel, to wit, with all the children of Ephraim.

25:8    你若一定要去，就奮勇爭戰吧。但神必使你敗在敵人面前。因為神能助人得勝，也能使人傾敗。
But if thou wilt go, do it, be strong for the battle: God shall make thee fall before the enemy: for God hath power to help, and to cast down.

25:9    亞瑪謝問神人說，我給了以色列軍的那一百他連得銀子怎嗎樣呢。神人回答說，耶和華能把更多的賜給你。
And Amaziah said to the man of God, But what shall we do for the hundred talents which I have given to the army of Israel? And the man of God answered, The LORD is able to give thee much more than this.

25:10    於是亞瑪謝將那從以法蓮來的軍兵分別出來，叫他們回家去。故此，他們甚惱怒猶大人，氣忿忿地回家去了。
Then Amaziah separated them, to wit, the army that was come to him out of Ephraim, to go home again: wherefore their anger was greatly kindled against Judah, and they returned home in great anger.

25:11    亞瑪謝壯起膽來，率領他的民到鹽谷，殺了西珥人一萬。
And Amaziah strengthened himself, and led forth his people, and went to the valley of salt, and smote of the children of Seir ten thousand.

25:12    猶大人又生擒了一萬帶到山崖上，從那裡把他們扔下去，以致他們都摔碎了。
And other ten thousand left alive did the children of Judah carry away captive, and brought them unto the top of the rock, and cast them down from the top of the rock, that they all were broken in pieces.

25:13    但亞瑪謝所打發回去，不許一同出征的那些軍兵攻打猶大各城，從撒馬利亞直到伯和侖，殺了三千人，搶了許多財物。
But the soldiers of the army which Amaziah sent back, that they should not go with him to battle, fell upon the cities of Judah, from Samaria even unto Bethhoron, and smote three thousand of them, and took much spoil.

25:14    亞瑪謝殺了以東人回來，就把西珥的神像帶回，立為自己的神，在它面前叩拜燒香。
Now it came to pass, after that Amaziah was come from the slaughter of the Edomites, that he brought the gods of the children of Seir, and set them up to be his gods, and bowed down himself before them, and burned incense unto them.



25:15    因此，耶和華的怒氣向亞瑪謝發作，就差一個先知去見他，說，這些神不能救它的民脫離你的手，你為何尋求它呢。
Wherefore the anger of the LORD was kindled against Amaziah, and he sent unto him a prophet, which said unto him, Why hast thou sought after the gods of the people, which could not deliver their own people out of thine hand?

25:16    先知與王說話的時候，王對他說，誰立你作王的謀士呢。你住口吧。為何找打呢。先知就止住了，又說，你行這事，不聽從我的勸戒，我知道神定意要滅你。
And it came to pass, as he talked with him, that the king said unto him, Art thou made of the king's counsel? forbear; why shouldest thou be smitten? Then the prophet forbare, and said, I know that God hath determined to destroy thee, because thou hast done this, and hast not hearkened unto my counsel.

25:17    猶大王亞瑪謝與群臣商議，就差遣使者去見耶戶的孫子，約哈斯的兒子，以色列王約阿施，說，你來，我們二人相見於戰場。
Then Amaziah king of Judah took advice, and sent to Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, the son of Jehu, king of Israel, saying, Come, let us see one another in the face.

25:18    以色列王約阿施差遣使者去見猶大王亞瑪謝，說，黎巴嫩的蒺藜差遣使者去見黎巴嫩的香柏樹，說，將你的女兒給我兒子為妻。後來黎巴嫩有一個野獸經過，把蒺藜踐踏了。
And Joash king of Israel sent to Amaziah king of Judah, saying, The thistle that was in Lebanon sent to the cedar that was in Lebanon, saying, Give thy daughter to my son to wife: and there passed by a wild beast that was in Lebanon, and trode down the thistle.

25:19    你說，看哪，我打敗了以東人，你就心高氣傲，以致矜誇。你在家裡安居就吧了，為何要惹禍使自己和猶大國一同敗亡呢。
Thou sayest, Lo, thou hast smitten the Edomites; and thine heart lifteth thee up to boast: abide now at home; why shouldest thou meddle to thine hurt, that thou shouldest fall, even thou, and Judah with thee?

25:20    亞瑪謝卻不肯聽從。這是出乎神，好將他們交在敵人手裡，因為他們尋求以東的神。
But Amaziah would not hear; for it came of God, that he might deliver them into the hand of their enemies, because they sought after the gods of Edom.

25:21    於是以色列王約阿施上來，在猶大的伯示麥與猶大王亞瑪謝相見於戰場。
So Joash the king of Israel went up; and they saw one another in the face, both he and Amaziah king of Judah, at Bethshemesh, which belongeth to Judah.

25:22    猶大人敗在以色列人面前，各自逃回家裡去了。
And Judah was put to the worse before Israel, and they fled every man to his tent.

25:23    以色列王約阿施在伯示麥擒住約哈斯（即亞哈謝）的孫子，約阿施的兒子，猶大王亞瑪謝，將他帶到耶路撒冷，又拆毀耶路撒冷的城牆，從以法蓮門直到角門，共四百肘。
And Joash the king of Israel took Amaziah king of Judah, the son of Joash, the son of Jehoahaz, at Bethshemesh, and brought him to Jerusalem, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem from the gate of Ephraim to the corner gate, four hundred cubits.

25:24    又將俄別以東所看守神殿裡的一切金銀和器皿，與王宮裡的財寶都拿了去，並帶人去為質，就回撒馬利亞去了。
And he took all the gold and the silver, and all the vessels that were found in the house of God with Obededom, and the treasures of the king's house, the hostages also, and returned to Samaria.

25:25    以色列王約哈斯的兒子約阿施死後，猶大王約阿施的兒子亞瑪謝又活了十五年。
And Amaziah the son of Joash king of Judah lived after the death of Joash son of Jehoahaz king of Israel fifteen years.

25:26    亞瑪謝其餘的事，自始至終不都寫在猶大和以色列諸王記上嗎。
Now the rest of the acts of Amaziah, first and last, behold, are they not written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel?

25:27    自從亞瑪謝離棄耶和華之後，在耶路撒冷有人背叛他，他就逃到拉吉。叛黨卻打發人到拉吉，將他殺了。
Now after the time that Amaziah did turn away from following the LORD they made a conspiracy against him in Jerusalem; and he fled to Lachish: but they sent to Lachish after him, and slew him there.

25:28    人就用馬將他的屍首馱回，葬在猶大京城他列祖的墳地裡。
And they brought him upon horses, and buried him with his fathers in the city of Judah.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


26:1    猶大眾民立亞瑪謝的兒子烏西雅（又名亞撒利雅）接續他父作王，那時他年十六歲。
Then all the people of Judah took Uzziah, who was sixteen years old, and made him king in the room of his father Amaziah.

26:2    亞瑪謝與他列祖同睡之後，烏西雅收回以祿仍歸猶大，又重新修理。
He built Eloth, and restored it to Judah, after that the king slept with his fathers.

26:3    烏西雅登基的時候年十六歲，在耶路撒冷作王五十二年。他母親名叫耶可利雅，是耶路撒冷人。
Sixteen years old was Uzziah when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty and two years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Jecoliah of Jerusalem.

26:4    烏西雅行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他父亞瑪謝一切所行的。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Amaziah did.

26:5    通曉神默示，撒迦利亞在世的時候，烏西雅定意尋求神。他尋求耶和華，神就使他亨通。
And he sought God in the days of Zechariah, who had understanding in the visions of God: and as long as he sought the LORD, God made him to prosper.

26:6    他出去攻擊非利士人，拆毀了迦特城，雅比尼城，和亞實突城。在非利士人中，在亞實突境內，又建築了些城。
And he went forth and warred against the Philistines, and brake down the wall of Gath, and the wall of Jabneh, and the wall of Ashdod, and built cities about Ashdod, and among the Philistines.

26:7    神幫助他攻擊非利士人和住在姑珥巴力的阿拉伯人，並米烏尼人。
And God helped him against the Philistines, and against the Arabians that dwelt in Gurbaal, and the Mehunims.

26:8    亞捫人給烏西雅進貢。他的名聲傳到埃及，因他甚是強盛。
And the Ammonites gave gifts to Uzziah: and his name spread abroad even to the entering in of Egypt; for he strengthened himself exceedingly.

26:9    烏西雅在耶路撒冷的角門和谷門，並城牆轉彎之處，建築城樓，且甚堅固。
Moreover Uzziah built towers in Jerusalem at the corner gate, and at the valley gate, and at the turning of the wall, and fortified them.

26:10    又在曠野與高原和平原，建築望樓，挖了許多井，因他的牲畜甚多。又在山地和佳美之地，有農夫和修理葡萄園的人，因為他喜悅農事。
Also he built towers in the desert, and digged many wells: for he had much cattle, both in the low country, and in the plains: husbandmen also, and vine dressers in the mountains, and in Carmel: for he loved husbandry.

26:11    烏西雅又有軍兵，照書記耶利和官長瑪西雅所數點的，在王的一個將軍哈拿尼雅手下，分隊出戰。
Moreover Uzziah had an host of fighting men, that went out to war by bands, according to the number of their account by the hand of Jeiel the scribe and Maaseiah the ruler, under the hand of Hananiah, one of the king's captains.

26:12    族長，大能勇士的總數共有二千六百人，
The whole number of the chief of the fathers of the mighty men of valour were two thousand and six hundred.

26:13    他們手下的軍兵共有三十萬七千五百人，都有大能，善於爭戰，幫助王攻擊仇敵。
And under their hand was an army, three hundred thousand and seven thousand and five hundred, that made war with mighty power, to help the king against the enemy.

26:14    烏西雅為全軍預備盾牌，槍，盔，甲，弓，和甩石的機弦，
And Uzziah prepared for them throughout all the host shields, and spears, and helmets, and habergeons, and bows, and slings to cast stones.

26:15    又在耶路撒冷使巧匠作機器，安在城樓和角樓上，用以射箭發石。烏西雅的名聲傳到遠方。因為他得了非常的幫助，甚是強盛。
And he made in Jerusalem engines, invented by cunning men, to be on the towers and upon the bulwarks, to shoot arrows and great stones withal. And his name spread far abroad; for he was marvellously helped, till he was strong.

26:16    他既強盛，就心高氣傲，以致行事邪僻，干犯耶和華他的神，進耶和華的殿，要在香壇上燒香。
But when he was strong, his heart was lifted up to his destruction: for he transgressed against the LORD his God, and went into the temple of the LORD to burn incense upon the altar of incense.

26:17    祭司亞撒利雅率領耶和華勇敢的祭司八十人，跟隨他進去。
And Azariah the priest went in after him, and with him fourscore priests of the LORD, that were valiant men:

26:18    他們就阻擋烏西雅王，對他說，烏西雅阿，給耶和華燒香不是你的事，乃是亞倫子孫承接聖職祭司的事。你出聖殿吧。因為你犯了罪。你行這事，耶和華神必不使你得榮耀。
And they withstood Uzziah the king, and said unto him, It appertaineth not unto thee, Uzziah, to burn incense unto the LORD, but to the priests the sons of Aaron, that are consecrated to burn incense: go out of the sanctuary; for thou hast trespassed; neither shall it be for thine honour from the LORD God.

26:19    烏西雅就發怒，手拿香爐要燒香。他向祭司發怒的時候，在耶和華殿中香壇旁眾祭司面前，額上忽然發出大麻瘋。
Then Uzziah was wroth, and had a censer in his hand to burn incense: and while he was wroth with the priests, the leprosy even rose up in his forehead before the priests in the house of the LORD, from beside the incense altar.

26:20    大祭司亞撒利雅和眾祭司觀看，見他額上發出大麻瘋，就催他出殿。他自己也急速出去，因為耶和華降災與他。
And Azariah the chief priest, and all the priests, looked upon him, and, behold, he was leprous in his forehead, and they thrust him out from thence; yea, himself hasted also to go out, because the LORD had smitten him.

26:21    烏西雅王長大麻瘋直到死日，因此住在別的宮裡，與耶和華的殿隔絕。他兒子約坦管理家事，治理國民。
And Uzziah the king was a leper unto the day of his death, and dwelt in a several house, being a leper; for he was cut off from the house of the LORD: and Jotham his son was over the king's house, judging the people of the land.

26:22    烏西雅其餘的事，自始至終都是亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞所記的。
Now the rest of the acts of Uzziah, first and last, did Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, write.

26:23    烏西雅與他列祖同睡，葬在王陵的田間他列祖的墳地裡。因為人說，他是長大麻瘋的。他兒子約坦接續他作王。
So Uzziah slept with his fathers, and they buried him with his fathers in the field of the burial which belonged to the kings; for they said, He is a leper: and Jotham his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


27:1    約坦登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王十六年，他母親名叫耶路沙，是撒督的女兒。
Jotham was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem. His mother's name also was Jerushah, the daughter of Zadok.

27:2    約坦行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他父烏西雅一切所行的，只是不入耶和華的殿。百姓還行邪僻的事。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that his father Uzziah did: howbeit he entered not into the temple of the LORD. And the people did yet corruptly.

27:3    約坦建立耶和華殿的上門，在俄斐勒城上多有建造，
He built the high gate of the house of the LORD, and on the wall of Ophel he built much.

27:4    又在猶大山地建造城邑，在樹林中建築營寨和高樓。
Moreover he built cities in the mountains of Judah, and in the forests he built castles and towers.

27:5    約坦與亞捫人的王打仗勝了他們，當年他們進貢銀一百他連得，小麥一萬歌珥，大麥一萬歌珥。第二年，第三年也是這樣。
He fought also with the king of the Ammonites, and prevailed against them. And the children of Ammon gave him the same year an hundred talents of silver, and ten thousand measures of wheat, and ten thousand of barley. So much did the children of Ammon pay unto him, both the second year, and the third.

27:6    約坦在耶和華他神面前行正道，以致日漸強盛。
So Jotham became mighty, because he prepared his ways before the LORD his God.

27:7    約坦其餘的事和一切爭戰，並他的行為，都寫在以色列和猶大列王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Jotham, and all his wars, and his ways, lo, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.

27:8    他登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王十六年。
He was five and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem.

27:9    約坦與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛城裡。他兒子亞哈斯接續他作王。
And Jotham slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city of David: and Ahaz his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


28:1    亞哈斯登基的時候年二十歲，在耶路撒冷作王十六年。不像他祖大衛行耶和華眼中看為正的事，
Ahaz was twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned sixteen years in Jerusalem: but he did not that which was right in the sight of the LORD, like David his father:

28:2    卻行以色列諸王的道，又鑄造巴力的像，
For he walked in the ways of the kings of Israel, and made also molten images for Baalim.



28:3    並且在欣嫩子谷燒香，用火焚燒他的兒女，行耶和華在以色列人面前所驅逐的外邦人那可憎的事。
Moreover he burnt incense in the valley of the son of Hinnom, and burnt his children in the fire, after the abominations of the heathen whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

28:4    並在邱壇上，山岡上，各青翠樹下獻祭燒香。
He sacrificed also and burnt incense in the high places, and on the hills, and under every green tree.

28:5    所以，耶和華他的神將他交在亞蘭王手裡。亞蘭王打敗他，擄了他許多的民，帶到大馬士革去。神又將他交在以色列王手裡，以色列王向他大行殺戮。
Wherefore the LORD his God delivered him into the hand of the king of Syria; and they smote him, and carried away a great multitude of them captives, and brought them to Damascus. And he was also delivered into the hand of the king of Israel, who smote him with a great slaughter.

28:6    利瑪利的兒子比加一日殺了猶大人十二萬，都是勇士，因為他們離棄了耶和華他們列祖的神。
For Pekah the son of Remaliah slew in Judah an hundred and twenty thousand in one day, which were all valiant men; because they had forsaken the LORD God of their fathers.

28:7    有一個以法蓮中的勇士，名叫細基利，殺了王的兒子瑪西雅和管理王宮的押斯利甘，並宰相以利加拿。
And Zichri, a mighty man of Ephraim, slew Maaseiah the king's son, and Azrikam the governor of the house, and Elkanah that was next to the king.

28:8    以色列人擄了他們的弟兄，連婦人帶兒女共有二十萬，又掠了許多的財物，帶到撒馬利亞去了。
And the children of Israel carried away captive of their brethren two hundred thousand, women, sons, and daughters, and took also away much spoil from them, and brought the spoil to Samaria.

28:9    但那裡有耶和華的一個先知，名叫俄德，出來迎接往撒馬利亞去的軍兵，對他們說，因為耶和華你們列祖的神惱怒猶大人，所以將他們交在你們手裡，你們竟怒氣沖天，大行殺戮。
But a prophet of the LORD was there, whose name was Oded: and he went out before the host that came to Samaria, and said unto them, Behold, because the LORD God of your fathers was wroth with Judah, he hath delivered them into your hand, and ye have slain them in a rage that reacheth up unto heaven.

28:10    如今你們又有意強逼猶大人和耶路撒冷人作你們的奴婢，你們豈不也有得罪耶和華你們神的事嗎。
And now ye purpose to keep under the children of Judah and Jerusalem for bondmen and bondwomen unto you: but are there not with you, even with you, sins against the LORD your God?

28:11    現在你們當聽我說，要將擄來的弟兄釋放回去，因為耶和華向你們已經大發烈怒。
Now hear me therefore, and deliver the captives again, which ye have taken captive of your brethren: for the fierce wrath of the LORD is upon you.

28:12    於是，以法蓮人的幾個族長就是約哈難的兒子亞撒利雅，米實利末的兒子比利家，沙龍的兒子耶希西家，哈得萊的兒子亞瑪撒起來攔擋出兵回來的人，
Then certain of the heads of the children of Ephraim, Azariah the son of Johanan, Berechiah the son of Meshillemoth, and Jehizkiah the son of Shallum, and Amasa the son of Hadlai, stood up against them that came from the war,

28:13    對他們說，你們不可帶進這被擄的人來。你們想要使我們得罪耶和華，加增我們的罪惡過犯。因為我們的罪過甚大，已經有烈怒臨到以色列人了。
And said unto them, Ye shall not bring in the captives hither: for whereas we have offended against the LORD already, ye intend to add more to our sins and to our trespass: for our trespass is great, and there is fierce wrath against Israel.

28:14    於是帶兵器的人將擄來的人口和掠來的財物都留在眾首領和會眾的面前。
So the armed men left the captives and the spoil before the princes and all the congregation.

28:15    以上提名的那些人就站起，使被擄的人前來。其中有赤身的，就從所掠的財物中拿出衣服和鞋來，給他們穿，又給他們吃喝，用膏抹他們。其中有軟弱的，就使他們騎驢，送到棕樹城耶利哥他們弟兄那裡，隨後就回撒馬利亞去了。
And the men which were expressed by name rose up, and took the captives, and with the spoil clothed all that were naked among them, and arrayed them, and shod them, and gave them to eat and to drink, and anointed them, and carried all the feeble of them upon asses, and brought them to Jericho, the city of palm trees, to their brethren: then they returned to Samaria.

28:16    那時，亞哈斯王差遣人去見亞述諸王，求他們幫助。
At that time did king Ahaz send unto the kings of Assyria to help him.

28:17    因為以東人又來攻擊猶大，擄掠子民。
For again the Edomites had come and smitten Judah, and carried away captives.

28:18    非利士人也來侵佔高原和猶大南方的城邑，取了伯示麥，亞雅侖，基低羅，梭哥和屬梭哥的鄉村，亭納和屬亭納的鄉村，瑾鎖和屬瑾鎖的鄉村，就住在那裡。
The Philistines also had invaded the cities of the low country, and of the south of Judah, and had taken Bethshemesh, and Ajalon, and Gederoth, and Shocho with the villages thereof, and Timnah with the villages thereof, Gimzo also and the villages thereof: and they dwelt there.

28:19    因為以色列王亞哈斯在猶大放肆，大大幹犯耶和華，所以耶和華使猶大卑微。
For the LORD brought Judah low because of Ahaz king of Israel; for he made Judah naked, and transgressed sore against the LORD.

28:20    亞述王提革拉毗尼色上來，卻沒有幫助他，反倒欺凌他。
And Tilgathpilneser king of Assyria came unto him, and distressed him, but strengthened him not.

28:21    亞哈斯從耶和華殿裡和王宮中，並首領家內所取的財寶給了亞述王，這也無濟於事。
For Ahaz took away a portion out of the house of the LORD, and out of the house of the king, and of the princes, and gave it unto the king of Assyria: but he helped him not.

28:22    這亞哈斯王在急難的時候，越發得罪耶和華。
And in the time of his distress did he trespass yet more against the LORD: this is that king Ahaz.

28:23    他祭祀攻擊他的大馬士革之神，說，因為亞蘭王的神幫助他們，我也獻祭與他，他好幫助我。但那些神使他和以色列眾人敗亡了。
For he sacrificed unto the gods of Damascus, which smote him: and he said, Because the gods of the kings of Syria help them, therefore will I sacrifice to them, that they may help me. But they were the ruin of him, and of all Israel.

28:24    亞哈斯將神殿裡的器皿都聚了來，毀壞了，且封鎖耶和華殿的門。在耶路撒冷各處的拐角建築祭壇，
And Ahaz gathered together the vessels of the house of God, and cut in pieces the vessels of the house of God, and shut up the doors of the house of the LORD, and he made him altars in every corner of Jerusalem.

28:25    又在猶大各城建立邱壇，與別神燒香，惹動耶和華他列祖神的怒氣。
And in every several city of Judah he made high places to burn incense unto other gods, and provoked to anger the LORD God of his fathers.

28:26    亞哈斯其餘的事和他的行為，自始至終都寫在猶大和以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of his acts and of all his ways, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

28:27    亞哈斯與他列祖同睡，葬在耶路撒冷城裡，沒有送入以色列諸王的墳墓中。他兒子希西家接續他作王。
And Ahaz slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the city, even in Jerusalem: but they brought him not into the sepulchres of the kings of Israel: and Hezekiah his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


29:1    希西家登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王二十九年。他母親名叫亞比雅，是撒迦利雅的女兒。
Hezekiah began to reign when he was five and twenty years old, and he reigned nine and twenty years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Abijah, the daughter of Zechariah.

29:2    希西家行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他祖大衛一切所行的。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, according to all that David his father had done.

29:3    元年正月，開了耶和華殿的門，重新修理。
He in the first year of his reign, in the first month, opened the doors of the house of the LORD, and repaired them.

29:4    他召眾祭司和利未人來，聚集在東邊的寬闊處，
And he brought in the priests and the Levites, and gathered them together into the east street,

29:5    對他們說，利未人哪，當聽我說，現在你們要潔淨自己，又潔淨耶和華你們列祖神的殿，從聖所中除去汙穢之物。
And said unto them, Hear me, ye Levites, sanctify now yourselves, and sanctify the house of the LORD God of your fathers, and carry forth the filthiness out of the holy place.

29:6    我們列祖犯了罪，行耶和華我們神眼中看為惡的事，離棄他，轉臉背向他的居所，
For our fathers have trespassed, and done that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD our God, and have forsaken him, and have turned away their faces from the habitation of the LORD, and turned their backs.

29:7    封鎖廊門，吹滅燈火，不在聖所中向以色列神燒香，或獻燔祭。
Also they have shut up the doors of the porch, and put out the lamps, and have not burned incense nor offered burnt offerings in the holy place unto the God of Israel.

29:8    因此，耶和華的忿怒臨到猶大和耶路撒冷，將其中的人拋來拋去，令人驚駭，嗤笑，正如你們親眼所見的。
Wherefore the wrath of the LORD was upon Judah and Jerusalem, and he hath delivered them to trouble, to astonishment, and to hissing, as ye see with your eyes.

29:9    所以我們的祖宗倒在刀下，我們的妻子兒女也被擄掠。
For, lo, our fathers have fallen by the sword, and our sons and our daughters and our wives are in captivity for this.

29:10    現在我心中有意與耶和華以色列的神立約，好使他的烈怒轉離我們。
Now it is in mine heart to make a covenant with the LORD God of Israel, that his fierce wrath may turn away from us.

29:11    我的眾子阿，現在不要懈怠。因為耶和華揀選你們站在他面前事奉他，與他燒香。
My sons, be not now negligent: for the LORD hath chosen you to stand before him, to serve him, and that ye should minister unto him, and burn incense.

29:12    於是，利未人哥轄的子孫，亞瑪賽的兒子瑪哈，亞撒利雅的兒子約珥。米拉利的子孫，亞伯底的兒子基士，耶哈利勒的兒子亞撒利雅。革順的子孫，薪瑪的兒子約亞，約亞的兒子伊甸；
Then the Levites arose, Mahath the son of Amasai, and Joel the son of Azariah, of the sons of the Kohathites: and of the sons of Merari, Kish the son of Abdi, and Azariah the son of Jehalelel: and of the Gershonites; Joah the son of Zimmah, and Eden the son of Joah:

29:13    以利撒反的子孫申利和耶利。亞薩的子孫撒迦利雅和瑪探雅。
And of the sons of Elizaphan; Shimri, and Jeiel: and of the sons of Asaph; Zechariah, and Mattaniah:

29:14    希幔的子孫耶歇和示每。耶杜頓的子孫示瑪雅和烏薛。
And of the sons of Heman; Jehiel, and Shimei: and of the sons of Jeduthun; Shemaiah, and Uzziel.

29:15    起來聚集他們的弟兄，潔淨自己，照著王的吩咐，耶和華的命令，進去潔淨耶和華的殿。
And they gathered their brethren, and sanctified themselves, and came, according to the commandment of the king, by the words of the LORD, to cleanse the house of the LORD.

29:16    祭司進入耶和華的殿要潔淨殿，將殿中所有汙穢之物搬到耶和華殿的院內，利未人接去，搬到外頭汲淪溪邊。
And the priests went into the inner part of the house of the LORD, to cleanse it, and brought out all the uncleanness that they found in the temple of the LORD into the court of the house of the LORD. And the Levites took it, to carry it out abroad into the brook Kidron.

29:17    從正月初一日潔淨起，初八日到了耶和華的殿廊，用八日的工夫潔淨耶和華的殿，到正月十六日才潔淨完了。
Now they began on the first day of the first month to sanctify, and on the eighth day of the month came they to the porch of the LORD: so they sanctified the house of the LORD in eight days; and in the sixteenth day of the first month they made an end.

29:18    於是，他們晉見希西家王，說，我們已將耶和華的全殿和燔祭壇，並壇的一切器皿，陳設餅的桌子，與桌子的一切器皿都潔淨了。
Then they went in to Hezekiah the king, and said, We have cleansed all the house of the LORD, and the altar of burnt offering, with all the vessels thereof, and the shewbread table, with all the vessels thereof.

29:19    並且亞哈斯王在位犯罪的時候所廢棄的器皿，我們預備齊全，且潔淨了，現今都在耶和華的壇前。
Moreover all the vessels, which king Ahaz in his reign did cast away in his transgression, have we prepared and sanctified, and, behold, they are before the altar of the LORD.

29:20    希西家王清早起來，聚集城裡的首領都上耶和華的殿。
Then Hezekiah the king rose early, and gathered the rulers of the city, and went up to the house of the LORD.

29:21    牽了七隻公牛，七隻公羊，七隻羊羔，七隻公山羊，要為國，為殿，為猶大人作贖罪祭。王吩咐亞倫的子孫眾祭司，獻在耶和華的壇上，
And they brought seven bullocks, and seven rams, and seven lambs, and seven he goats, for a sin offering for the kingdom, and for the sanctuary, and for Judah. And he commanded the priests the sons of Aaron to offer them on the altar of the LORD.

29:22    就宰了公牛，祭司接血灑在壇上，宰了公羊，把血灑在壇上，又宰了羊羔，也把血灑在壇上。
So they killed the bullocks, and the priests received the blood, and sprinkled it on the altar: likewise, when they had killed the rams, they sprinkled the blood upon the altar: they killed also the lambs, and they sprinkled the blood upon the altar.

29:23    把那作贖罪祭的公山羊牽到王和會眾面前，他們就按手在其上。
And they brought forth the he goats for the sin offering before the king and the congregation; and they laid their hands upon them:

29:24    祭司宰了羊，將血獻在壇上作贖罪祭，為以色列眾人贖罪，因為王吩咐將燔祭和贖罪祭為以色列眾人獻上。
And the priests killed them, and they made reconciliation with their blood upon the altar, to make an atonement for all Israel: for the king commanded that the burnt offering and the sin offering should be made for all Israel.

29:25    王又派利未人在耶和華殿中敲鈸，鼓瑟，彈琴，乃照大衛和他先見迦得，並先知拿單所吩咐的，就是耶和華藉先知所吩咐的。
And he set the Levites in the house of the LORD with cymbals, with psalteries, and with harps, according to the commandment of David, and of Gad the king's seer, and Nathan the prophet: for so was the commandment of the LORD by his prophets.

29:26    利未人拿大衛的樂器，祭司拿號，一同站立。
And the Levites stood with the instruments of David, and the priests with the trumpets.

29:27    希西家吩咐在壇上獻燔祭，燔祭一獻，就唱讚美耶和華的歌，用號，並用以色列王大衛的樂器相和。
And Hezekiah commanded to offer the burnt offering upon the altar. And when the burnt offering began, the song of the LORD began also with the trumpets, and with the instruments ordained by David king of Israel.

29:28    會眾都敬拜，歌唱的歌唱，吹號的吹號，如此直到燔祭獻完了。
And all the congregation worshipped, and the singers sang, and the trumpeters sounded: and all this continued until the burnt offering was finished.

29:29    獻完了祭，王和一切跟隨的人都俯伏敬拜。
And when they had made an end of offering, the king and all that were present with him bowed themselves, and worshipped.

29:30    希西家王與眾首領又吩咐利未人用大衛和先見亞薩的詩詞頌讚耶和華。他們就歡歡喜喜地頌讚耶和華，低頭敬拜。
Moreover Hezekiah the king and the princes commanded the Levites to sing praise unto the LORD with the words of David, and of Asaph the seer. And they sang praises with gladness, and they bowed their heads and worshipped.

29:31    希西家說，你們既然歸耶和華為聖，就要前來把祭物和感謝祭奉到耶和華殿裡。會眾就把祭物和感謝祭奉來，凡甘心樂意的也將燔祭奉來。
Then Hezekiah answered and said, Now ye have consecrated yourselves unto the LORD, come near and bring sacrifices and thank offerings into the house of the LORD. And the congregation brought in sacrifices and thank offerings; and as many as were of a free heart burnt offerings.

29:32    會眾所奉的燔祭如下，公牛七十隻，公羊一百隻，羊羔二百隻，這都是作燔祭獻給耶和華的。
And the number of the burnt offerings, which the congregation brought, was threescore and ten bullocks, an hundred rams, and two hundred lambs: all these were for a burnt offering to the LORD.

29:33    又有分別為聖之物，公牛六百隻，綿羊三千隻。
And the consecrated things were six hundred oxen and three thousand sheep.

29:34    但祭司太少，不能剝盡燔祭牲的皮，所以他們的弟兄利未人幫助他們，直等燔祭的事完了，又等別的祭司自潔了。因為利未人誠心自潔，勝過祭司。
But the priests were too few, so that they could not flay all the burnt offerings: wherefore their brethren the Levites did help them, till the work was ended, and until the other priests had sanctified themselves: for the Levites were more upright in heart to sanctify themselves than the priests.

29:35    燔祭和平安祭牲的脂油，並燔祭同獻的奠祭甚多。這樣，耶和華殿中的事務俱都齊備了（或作就整頓了）。
And also the burnt offerings were in abundance, with the fat of the peace offerings, and the drink offerings for every burnt offering. So the service of the house of the LORD was set in order.

29:36    這事辦的甚速，希西家和眾民都喜樂，是因神為眾民所預備的。
And Hezekiah rejoiced, and all the people, that God had prepared the people: for the thing was done suddenly.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


30:1    希西家差遣人去見以色列和猶大眾人，又寫信給以法蓮和瑪拿西人，叫他們到耶路撒冷耶和華的殿，向耶和華以色列的神守逾越節。
And Hezekiah sent to all Israel and Judah, and wrote letters also to Ephraim and Manasseh, that they should come to the house of the LORD at Jerusalem, to keep the passover unto the LORD God of Israel.

30:2    因為王和眾首領，並耶路撒冷全會眾已經商議，要在二月內守逾越節。
For the king had taken counsel, and his princes, and all the congregation in Jerusalem, to keep the passover in the second month.

30:3    正月（原文作那時）間他們不能守。因為自潔的祭司尚不敷用，百姓也沒有聚集在耶路撒冷。
For they could not keep it at that time, because the priests had not sanctified themselves sufficiently, neither had the people gathered themselves together to Jerusalem.

30:4    王與全會眾都以這事為善。
And the thing pleased the king and all the congregation.

30:5    於是定了命令，傳遍以色列，從別是巴直到但，使他們都來，在耶路撒冷向耶和華以色列的神守逾越節。因為照所寫的例，守這節的不多了（或作因為民許久沒有照所寫的例守節了）。
So they established a decree to make proclamation throughout all Israel, from Beersheba even to Dan, that they should come to keep the passover unto the LORD God of Israel at Jerusalem: for they had not done it of a long time in such sort as it was written.

30:6    驛卒就把王和眾首領的信，遵著王命傳遍以色列和猶大。信內說，以色列人哪，你們當轉向耶和華亞伯拉罕，以撒，以色列的神，好叫他轉向你們這脫離亞述王手的餘民。
So the posts went with the letters from the king and his princes throughout all Israel and Judah, and according to the commandment of the king, saying, Ye children of Israel, turn again unto the LORD God of Abraham, Isaac, and Israel, and he will return to the remnant of you, that are escaped out of the hand of the kings of Assyria.

30:7    你們不要效法你們列祖和你們的弟兄。他們干犯耶和華他們列祖的神，以致耶和華丟棄他們，使他們敗亡（或作令人驚駭），正如你們所見的。
And be not ye like your fathers, and like your brethren, which trespassed against the LORD God of their fathers, who therefore gave them up to desolation, as ye see.

30:8    現在不要像你們列祖硬著頸項，只要歸順耶和華，進入他的聖所，就是永遠成聖的居所。又要事奉耶和華你們的神，好使他的烈怒轉離你們。
Now be ye not stiffnecked, as your fathers were, but yield yourselves unto the LORD, and enter into his sanctuary, which he hath sanctified for ever: and serve the LORD your God, that the fierceness of his wrath may turn away from you.

30:9    你們若轉向耶和華，你們的弟兄和兒女必在擄掠他們的人面前蒙憐恤，得以歸回這地，因為耶和華你們的神有恩典，施憐憫。你們若轉向他，他必不轉臉不顧你們。
For if ye turn again unto the LORD, your brethren and your children shall find compassion before them that lead them captive, so that they shall come again into this land: for the LORD your God is gracious and merciful, and will not turn away his face from you, if ye return unto him.

30:10    驛卒就由這城跑到那城，傳遍了以法蓮，瑪拿西，直到西布倫。那裡的人卻戲笑他們，譏誚他們。
So the posts passed from city to city through the country of Ephraim and Manasseh even unto Zebulun: but they laughed them to scorn, and mocked them.

30:11    然而亞設，瑪拿西，西布倫中也有人自卑，來到耶路撒冷。
Nevertheless divers of Asher and Manasseh and of Zebulun humbled themselves, and came to Jerusalem.

30:12    神也感動猶大人，使他們一心遵行王與眾首領憑耶和華之言所發的命令。
Also in Judah the hand of God was to give them one heart to do the commandment of the king and of the princes, by the word of the LORD.

30:13    二月，有許多人在耶路撒冷聚集，成為大會，要守除酵節。
And there assembled at Jerusalem much people to keep the feast of unleavened bread in the second month, a very great congregation.

30:14    他們起來，把耶路撒冷的祭壇和燒香的壇盡都除去，拋在汲淪溪中。
And they arose and took away the altars that were in Jerusalem, and all the altars for incense took they away, and cast them into the brook Kidron.

30:15    二月十四日，宰了逾越節的羊羔。祭司與利未人覺得慚愧，就潔淨自己，把燔祭奉到耶和華殿中，
Then they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the second month: and the priests and the Levites were ashamed, and sanctified themselves, and brought in the burnt offerings into the house of the LORD.

30:16    遵著神人摩西的律法，照例站在自己的地方。祭司從利未人手裡接過血來，灑在壇上。
And they stood in their place after their manner, according to the law of Moses the man of God: the priests sprinkled the blood, which they received of the hand of the Levites.

30:17    會中有許多人尚未自潔，所以利未人為一切不潔之人宰逾越節的羊羔，使他們在耶和華面前成為聖潔。
For there were many in the congregation that were not sanctified: therefore the Levites had the charge of the killing of the passovers for every one that was not clean, to sanctify them unto the LORD.

30:18    *
For a multitude of the people, even many of Ephraim, and Manasseh, Issachar, and Zebulun, had not cleansed themselves, yet did they eat the passover otherwise than it was written. But Hezekiah prayed for them, saying, The good LORD pardon every one

30:19    以法蓮，瑪拿西，以薩迦，西布倫有許多人尚未自潔，他們卻也吃逾越節的羊羔，不合所記錄的定例。希西家為他們禱告說，凡專心尋求神，就是耶和華他列祖之神的，雖不照著聖所潔淨之禮自潔，求至善的耶和華也饒恕他。
That prepareth his heart to seek God, the LORD God of his fathers, though he be not cleansed according to the purification of the sanctuary.

30:20    耶和華垂聽希西家的禱告，就饒恕（原文作醫治）百姓。
And the LORD hearkened to Hezekiah, and healed the people.

30:21    在耶路撒冷的以色列人大大喜樂，守除酵節七日。利未人和祭司用響亮的樂器，日日頌讚耶和華。
And the children of Israel that were present at Jerusalem kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with great gladness: and the Levites and the priests praised the LORD day by day, singing with loud instruments unto the LORD.

30:22    希西家慰勞一切善於事奉耶和華的利未人。於是眾人吃節筵七日，又獻平安祭，且向耶和華他們列祖的神認罪。
And Hezekiah spake comfortably unto all the Levites that taught the good knowledge of the LORD: and they did eat throughout the feast seven days, offering peace offerings, and making confession to the LORD God of their fathers.

30:23    全會眾商議，要再守節七日。於是歡歡喜喜地又守節七日。
And the whole assembly took counsel to keep other seven days: and they kept other seven days with gladness.

30:24    猶大王希西家賜給會眾公牛一千隻，羊七千摯為祭物。眾首領也賜給會眾公牛一千隻，羊一萬隻，並有許多的祭司潔淨自己。
For Hezekiah king of Judah did give to the congregation a thousand bullocks and seven thousand sheep; and the princes gave to the congregation a thousand bullocks and ten thousand sheep: and a great number of priests sanctified themselves.

30:25    猶大全會眾，祭司，利未人，並那從以色列地來的會眾和寄居的人，以及猶大寄居的人，盡都喜樂。
And all the congregation of Judah, with the priests and the Levites, and all the congregation that came out of Israel, and the strangers that came out of the land of Israel, and that dwelt in Judah, rejoiced.

30:26    這樣，在耶路撒冷大有喜樂，自從以色列王大衛兒子所羅門的時候，在耶路撒冷沒有這樣的喜樂。
So there was great joy in Jerusalem: for since the time of Solomon the son of David king of Israel there was not the like in Jerusalem.

30:27    那時，祭司，利未人起來，為民祝福。他們的聲音蒙神垂聽，他們的禱告達到天上的聖所。
Then the priests the Levites arose and blessed the people: and their voice was heard, and their prayer came up to his holy dwelling place, even unto heaven.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


31:1    這事既都完畢，在那裡的以色列眾人就到猶大的城邑，打碎柱像，砍斷木偶，又在猶大，便雅憫，以法蓮，瑪拿西遍地將邱壇和祭壇拆毀淨盡。於是以色列眾人各回各城，各歸各地。
Now when all this was finished, all Israel that were present went out to the cities of Judah, and brake the images in pieces, and cut down the groves, and threw down the high places and the altars out of all Judah and Benjamin, in Ephraim also and Manasseh, until they had utterly destroyed them all. Then all the children of Israel returned, every man to his possession, into their own cities.

31:2    希西家派定祭司利未人的班次，各按各職獻燔祭和平安祭，又在耶和華殿（原文作營）門內事奉，稱謝頌讚耶和華。
And Hezekiah appointed the courses of the priests and the Levites after their courses, every man according to his service, the priests and Levites for burnt offerings and for peace offerings, to minister, and to give thanks, and to praise in the gates of the tents of the LORD.

31:3    王又從自己的產業中定出分來為燔祭，就是早晚的燔祭和安息日，月朔，並節期的燔祭，都是按耶和華律法上所載的。
He appointed also the king's portion of his substance for the burnt offerings, to wit, for the morning and evening burnt offerings, and the burnt offerings for the sabbaths, and for the new moons, and for the set feasts, as it is written in the law of the LORD.

31:4    又吩咐住耶路撒冷的百姓將祭司，利未人所應得的分給他們，使他們專心遵守耶和華的律法。
Moreover he commanded the people that dwelt in Jerusalem to give the portion of the priests and the Levites, that they might be encouraged in the law of the LORD.

31:5    諭旨一出，以色列人就把初熟的五穀，新酒，油，蜜，和田地的出產多多送來，又把各物的十分之一送來的極多。
And as soon as the commandment came abroad, the children of Israel brought in abundance the firstfruits of corn, wine, and oil, and honey, and of all the increase of the field; and the tithe of all things brought they in abundantly.

31:6    住猶大各城的以色列人和猶大人也將牛羊的十分之一，並分別為聖歸耶和華他們神之物，就是十分取一之物，盡都送來，積成堆壘。
And concerning the children of Israel and Judah, that dwelt in the cities of Judah, they also brought in the tithe of oxen and sheep, and the tithe of holy things which were consecrated unto the LORD their God, and laid them by heaps.

31:7    從三月積起，到七月才完。
In the third month they began to lay the foundation of the heaps, and finished them in the seventh month.

31:8    希西家和眾首領來，看見堆壘，就稱頌耶和華，又為耶和華的民以色列人祝福。
And when Hezekiah and the princes came and saw the heaps, they blessed the LORD, and his people Israel.

31:9    希西家向祭司，利未人查問這堆壘。
Then Hezekiah questioned with the priests and the Levites concerning the heaps.

31:10    撒督家的大祭司亞撒利雅回答說，自從民將供物送到耶和華殿以來，我們不但吃飽，且剩下的甚多。因為耶和華賜福給他的民，所剩下的才這樣豐盛。
And Azariah the chief priest of the house of Zadok answered him, and said, Since the people began to bring the offerings into the house of the LORD, we have had enough to eat, and have left plenty: for the LORD hath blessed his people; and that which is left is this great store.

31:11    希西家吩咐在耶和華殿裡預備倉房，他們就預備了。
Then Hezekiah commanded to prepare chambers in the house of the LORD; and they prepared them,

31:12    他們誠心將供物和十分取一之物，並分別為聖之物，都搬入倉內。利未人歌楠雅掌管這事，他兄弟示每為副管。
And brought in the offerings and the tithes and the dedicated things faithfully: over which Cononiah the Levite was ruler, and Shimei his brother was the next.

31:13    耶歇，亞撒細雅，拿哈，亞撒黑，耶利末，約撒拔，以列，伊斯瑪基雅，瑪哈，比拿雅都是督理，在歌楠雅和他兄弟示每的手下，是希西家王和管理神殿的亞撒利雅所派的。
And Jehiel, and Azaziah, and Nahath, and Asahel, and Jerimoth, and Jozabad, and Eliel, and Ismachiah, and Mahath, and Benaiah, were overseers under the hand of Cononiah and Shimei his brother, at the commandment of Hezekiah the king, and Azariah the ruler of the house of God.

31:14    守東門的利未人音拿的兒子可利，掌管樂意獻與神的禮物，發放獻與耶和華的供物和至聖的物。
And Kore the son of Imnah the Levite, the porter toward the east, was over the freewill offerings of God, to distribute the oblations of the LORD, and the most holy things.

31:15    在他手下有伊甸，泯雅泯，耶書亞，示瑪雅，亞瑪利雅，示迦尼雅，在祭司的各城裡供緊要的職任，無論弟兄大小，都按著班次分給他們。
And next him were Eden, and Miniamin, and Jeshua, and Shemaiah, Amariah, and Shecaniah, in the cities of the priests, in their set office, to give to their brethren by courses, as well to the great as to the small:

31:16    按家譜，三歲以外的男丁，凡每日進耶和華殿，按班次供職的，也分給他。
Beside their genealogy of males, from three years old and upward, even unto every one that entereth into the house of the LORD, his daily portion for their service in their charges according to their courses;

31:17    又按宗族家譜分給祭司，按班次職任分給二十歲以外的利未人，
Both to the genealogy of the priests by the house of their fathers, and the Levites from twenty years old and upward, in their charges by their courses;

31:18    又按家譜計算，分給他們會中的妻子，兒女。因他們身供要職，自潔成聖。
And to the genealogy of all their little ones, their wives, and their sons, and their daughters, through all the congregation: for in their set office they sanctified themselves in holiness:

31:19    按名派定的人要把應得的分給亞倫子孫，住在各城郊野，祭司所有的男丁和一切載入家譜的利未人。
Also of the sons of Aaron the priests, which were in the fields of the suburbs of their cities, in every several city, the men that were expressed by name, to give portions to all the males among the priests, and to all that were reckoned by genealogies among the Levites.

31:20    希西家在猶大遍地這樣辦理，行耶和華他神眼中看為善為正為忠的事。
And thus did Hezekiah throughout all Judah, and wrought that which was good and right and truth before the LORD his God.

31:21    凡他所行的，無論是辦神殿的事，是遵律法守誡命，是尋求他的神，都是盡心去行，無不亨通。
And in every work that he began in the service of the house of God, and in the law, and in the commandments, to seek his God, he did it with all his heart, and prospered.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


32:1    這虔誠的事以後，亞述王西拿基立來侵入猶大，圍困一切堅固城，想要攻破佔據。
After these things, and the establishment thereof, Sennacherib king of Assyria came, and entered into Judah, and encamped against the fenced cities, and thought to win them for himself.

32:2    希西家見西拿基立來，定意要攻打耶路撒冷，
And when Hezekiah saw that Sennacherib was come, and that he was purposed to fight against Jerusalem,

32:3    就與首領和勇士商議，塞住城外的泉源。他們就都幫助他。
He took counsel with his princes and his mighty men to stop the waters of the fountains which were without the city: and they did help him.

32:4    於是有許多人聚集，塞了一切泉源，並通流國中的小河，說，亞述王來，為何讓他得著許多水呢。
So there was gathered much people together, who stopped all the fountains, and the brook that ran through the midst of the land, saying, Why should the kings of Assyria come, and find much water?

32:5    希西家力圖自強，就修築所有拆毀的城牆，高與城樓相齊。在城外又築一城，堅固大衛城的米羅，製造了許多軍器，盾牌。
Also he strengthened himself, and built up all the wall that was broken, and raised it up to the towers, and another wall without, and repaired Millo in the city of David, and made darts and shields in abundance.

32:6    設立軍長管理百姓，將他們招聚在城門的寬闊處，用話勉勵他們，說，
And he set captains of war over the people, and gathered them together to him in the street of the gate of the city, and spake comfortably to them, saying,

32:7    你們當剛強壯膽，不要因亞述王和跟隨他的大軍恐懼，驚慌。因為與我們同在的，比與他們同在的更大。
Be strong and courageous, be not afraid nor dismayed for the king of Assyria, nor for all the multitude that is with him: for there be more with us than with him:

32:8    與他們同在的是肉臂，與我們同在的是耶和華我們的神，他必幫助我們，為我們爭戰。百姓就靠猶大王希西家的話，安然無懼了。
With him is an arm of flesh; but with us is the LORD our God to help us, and to fight our battles. And the people rested themselves upon the words of Hezekiah king of Judah.

32:9    此後，亞述王西拿基立和他的全軍攻打拉吉，就差遣臣僕到耶路撒冷見猶大王希西家和一切在耶路撒冷的猶大人，說，
After this did Sennacherib king of Assyria send his servants to Jerusalem, (but he himself laid siege against Lachish, and all his power with him,) unto Hezekiah king of Judah, and unto all Judah that were at Jerusalem, saying,

32:10    亞述王西拿基立如此說，你們倚靠什麼，還在耶路撒冷受困呢。
Thus saith Sennacherib king of Assyria, Whereon do ye trust, that ye abide in the siege in Jerusalem?

32:11    希西家對你們說耶和華我們的神必救我們脫離亞述王的手，這不是誘惑你們，使你們受飢渴而死嗎。
Doth not Hezekiah persuade you to give over yourselves to die by famine and by thirst, saying, The LORD our God shall deliver us out of the hand of the king of Assyria?

32:12    這希西家豈不是廢去耶和華的邱壇和祭壇，吩咐猶大與耶路撒冷的人說你們當在一個壇前敬拜，在其上燒香嗎。
Hath not the same Hezekiah taken away his high places and his altars, and commanded Judah and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall worship before one altar, and burn incense upon it?

32:13    我與我列祖向列邦所行的，你們豈不知道嗎。列邦的神何嘗能救自己的國脫離我手呢。
Know ye not what I and my fathers have done unto all the people of other lands? were the gods of the nations of those lands any ways able to deliver their lands out of mine hand?

32:14    我列祖所滅的國，那些神中誰能救自己的民脫離我手呢。難道你們的神能救你們脫離我手嗎。
Who was there among all the gods of those nations that my fathers utterly destroyed, that could deliver his people out of mine hand, that your God should be able to deliver you out of mine hand?

32:15    所以你們不要叫希西家這樣欺哄誘惑你們，也不要信他。因為沒有一國一邦的神能救自己的民脫離我手和我列祖的手，何況你們的神更不能救你們脫離我的手。
Now therefore let not Hezekiah deceive you, nor persuade you on this manner, neither yet believe him: for no god of any nation or kingdom was able to deliver his people out of mine hand, and out of the hand of my fathers: how much less shall your God deliver you out of mine hand?

32:16    西拿基立的臣僕還有別的話毀謗耶和華神和他僕人希西家。
And his servants spake yet more against the LORD God, and against his servant Hezekiah.

32:17    西拿基立也寫信毀謗耶和華以色列的神說，列邦的神既不能救他的民脫離我手，希西家的神也不能救他的民脫離我手了。
He wrote also letters to rail on the LORD God of Israel, and to speak against him, saying, As the gods of the nations of other lands have not delivered their people out of mine hand, so shall not the God of Hezekiah deliver his people out of mine hand.

32:18    亞述王的臣僕用猶大言語向耶路撒冷城上的民大聲呼叫，要驚嚇他們，擾亂他們，以便取城。
Then they cried with a loud voice in the Jews' speech unto the people of Jerusalem that were on the wall, to affright them, and to trouble them; that they might take the city.

32:19    他們論耶路撒冷的神，如同論世上人手所造的神一樣。
And they spake against the God of Jerusalem, as against the gods of the people of the earth, which were the work of the hands of man.

32:20    希西家王和亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞因此禱告，向天呼求。
And for this cause Hezekiah the king, and the prophet Isaiah the son of Amoz, prayed and cried to heaven.

32:21    耶和華就差遣一個使者進入亞述王營中，把所有大能的勇士和官長，將帥盡都滅了。亞述王滿面含羞地回到本國，進了他神的廟中，有他親生的兒子在那裡用刀殺了他。
And the LORD sent an angel, which cut off all the mighty men of valour, and the leaders and captains in the camp of the king of Assyria. So he returned with shame of face to his own land. And when he was come into the house of his god, they that came forth of his own bowels slew him there with the sword.

32:22    這樣，耶和華救希西家和耶路撒冷的居民脫離亞述王西拿基立的手，也脫離一切仇敵的手，又賜他們四境平安。
Thus the LORD saved Hezekiah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem from the hand of Sennacherib the king of Assyria, and from the hand of all other, and guided them on every side.

32:23    有許多人到耶路撒冷，將供物獻與耶和華，又將寶物送給猶大王希西家。此後，希西家在列邦人的眼中看為尊大。
And many brought gifts unto the LORD to Jerusalem, and presents to Hezekiah king of Judah: so that he was magnified in the sight of all nations from thenceforth.

32:24    那時希西家病得要死，就禱告耶和華，耶和華應允他，賜他一個兆頭。
In those days Hezekiah was sick to the death, and prayed unto the LORD: and he spake unto him, and he gave him a sign.

32:25    希西家卻沒有照他所蒙的恩報答耶和華。因他心裡驕傲，所以忿怒要臨到他和猶大並耶路撒冷。
But Hezekiah rendered not again according to the benefit done unto him; for his heart was lifted up: therefore there was wrath upon him, and upon Judah and Jerusalem.

32:26    但希西家和耶路撒冷的居民覺得心裡驕傲，就一同自卑，以致耶和華的忿怒在希西家的日子沒有臨到他們。
Notwithstanding Hezekiah humbled himself for the pride of his heart, both he and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, so that the wrath of the LORD came not upon them in the days of Hezekiah.

32:27    希西家大有尊榮資財，建造府庫，收藏金銀，寶石，香料，盾牌，和各樣的寶器，
And Hezekiah had exceeding much riches and honour: and he made himself treasuries for silver, and for gold, and for precious stones, and for spices, and for shields, and for all manner of pleasant jewels;

32:28    又建造倉房，收藏五穀，新酒，和油，又為各類牲畜蓋棚立圈。
Storehouses also for the increase of corn, and wine, and oil; and stalls for all manner of beasts, and cotes for flocks.

32:29    並且建立城邑，還有許多的羊群牛群，因為神賜他極多的財產。
Moreover he provided him cities, and possessions of flocks and herds in abundance: for God had given him substance very much.

32:30    這希西家也塞住基訓的上源，引水直下，流在大衛城的西邊。希西家所行的事盡都亨通。
This same Hezekiah also stopped the upper watercourse of Gihon, and brought it straight down to the west side of the city of David. And Hezekiah prospered in all his works.

32:31    惟有一件事，就是巴比倫王差遣使者來見希西家，訪問國中所現的奇事。這件事神離開他，要試驗他，好知道他心內如何。
Howbeit in the business of the ambassadors of the princes of Babylon, who sent unto him to enquire of the wonder that was done in the land, God left him, to try him, that he might know all that was in his heart.

32:32    希西家其餘的事和他的善行，都寫在亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞的默示書上，和猶大，以色列的諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Hezekiah, and his goodness, behold, they are written in the vision of Isaiah the prophet, the son of Amoz, and in the book of the kings of Judah and Israel.

32:33    希西家與他列祖同睡，葬在大衛子孫的高陵上。他死的時候，猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民都尊敬他。他兒子瑪拿西接續他作王。
And Hezekiah slept with his fathers, and they buried him in the chiefest of the sepulchres of the sons of David: and all Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem did him honour at his death. And Manasseh his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


33:1    瑪拿西登基的時候年十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王五十五年。
Manasseh was twelve years old when he began to reign, and he reigned fifty and five years in Jerusalem:

33:2    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法耶和華在以色列人面前趕出的外邦人那可憎的事，
But did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, like unto the abominations of the heathen, whom the LORD had cast out before the children of Israel.

33:3    重新建築他父希西家所拆毀的邱壇，又為巴力築壇，作木偶，且敬拜事奉天上的永珍，
For he built again the high places which Hezekiah his father had broken down, and he reared up altars for Baalim, and made groves, and worshipped all the host of heaven, and served them.

33:4    在耶和華的殿宇中築壇耶和華曾指著這殿說，我的名必永遠在耶路撒冷。
Also he built altars in the house of the LORD, whereof the LORD had said, In Jerusalem shall my name be for ever.

33:5    他在耶和華殿的兩院中為天上的永珍築壇，
And he built altars for all the host of heaven in the two courts of the house of the LORD.

33:6    並在欣嫩子谷使他的兒女經火，又觀兆，用法術，行邪術，立交鬼的和行巫術的，多行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，惹動他的怒氣，
And he caused his children to pass through the fire in the valley of the son of Hinnom: also he observed times, and used enchantments, and used witchcraft, and dealt with a familiar spirit, and with wizards: he wrought much evil in the sight of the LORD, to provoke him to anger.

33:7    又在神殿內立雕刻的偶像。神曾對大衛和他兒子所羅門說，我在以色列各支派中所選擇的耶路撒冷和這殿，必立我的名直到永遠。
And he set a carved image, the idol which he had made, in the house of God, of which God had said to David and to Solomon his son, In this house, and in Jerusalem, which I have chosen before all the tribes of Israel, will I put my name for ever:

33:8    以色列人若謹守遵行我藉摩西所吩咐他們的一切法度，律例，典章，我就不再使他們挪移離開我所賜給他們列祖之地。
Neither will I any more remove the foot of Israel from out of the land which I have appointed for your fathers; so that they will take heed to do all that I have commanded them, according to the whole law and the statutes and the ordinances by the hand of Moses.

33:9    瑪拿西引誘猶大和耶路撒冷的居民，以致他們行惡比耶和華在以色列人面前所滅的列國更甚。
So Manasseh made Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem to err, and to do worse than the heathen, whom the LORD had destroyed before the children of Israel.

33:10    耶和華警戒瑪拿西和他的百姓，他們卻是不聽。
And the LORD spake to Manasseh, and to his people: but they would not hearken.

33:11    所以耶和華使亞述王的將帥來攻擊他們，用鐃鉤鉤住瑪拿西，用銅鏈鎖住他，帶到巴比倫去。
Wherefore the LORD brought upon them the captains of the host of the king of Assyria, which took Manasseh among the thorns, and bound him with fetters, and carried him to Babylon.

33:12    他在急難的時候，就懇求耶和華他的神，且在他列祖的神面前極其自卑。
And when he was in affliction, he besought the LORD his God, and humbled himself greatly before the God of his fathers,

33:13    他祈禱耶和華，耶和華就允准他的祈求，垂聽他的禱告，使他歸回耶路撒冷，仍坐國位。瑪拿西這才知道惟獨耶和華是神。
And prayed unto him: and he was intreated of him, and heard his supplication, and brought him again to Jerusalem into his kingdom. Then Manasseh knew that the LORD he was God.

33:14    此後，瑪拿西在大衛城外，從谷內基訓西邊直到魚門口，建築城牆，環繞俄斐勒，這牆築得甚高。又在猶大各堅固城內設立勇敢的軍長。
Now after this he built a wall without the city of David, on the west side of Gihon, in the valley, even to the entering in at the fish gate, and compassed about Ophel, and raised it up a very great height, and put captains of war in all the fenced cities of Judah.

33:15    併除掉外邦人的神像與耶和華殿中的偶像，又將他在耶和華殿的山上和耶路撒冷所築的各壇都拆毀拋在城外。
And he took away the strange gods, and the idol out of the house of the LORD, and all the altars that he had built in the mount of the house of the LORD, and in Jerusalem, and cast them out of the city.

33:16    重修耶和華的祭壇，在壇上獻平安祭，感謝祭，吩咐猶大人事奉耶和華以色列的神。
And he repaired the altar of the LORD, and sacrificed thereon peace offerings and thank offerings, and commanded Judah to serve the LORD God of Israel.

33:17    百姓卻仍在邱壇上獻祭，只獻給耶和華他們的神。
Nevertheless the people did sacrifice still in the high places, yet unto the LORD their God only.

33:18    瑪拿西其餘的事和禱告他神的話，並先見奉耶和華以色列神的名警戒他的言語，都寫在以色列諸王記上。
Now the rest of the acts of Manasseh, and his prayer unto his God, and the words of the seers that spake to him in the name of the LORD God of Israel, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel.

33:19    他的禱告，與神怎樣應允他，他未自卑以前的罪愆過犯，並在何處建築邱壇，設立亞舍拉和雕刻的偶像，都寫在何賽的書上。
His prayer also, and how God was intreated of him, and all his sins, and his trespass, and the places wherein he built high places, and set up groves and graven images, before he was humbled: behold, they are written among the sayings of the seers.

33:20    瑪拿西與他列祖同睡，葬在自己的宮院裡。他兒子亞們接續他作王。
So Manasseh slept with his fathers, and they buried him in his own house: and Amon his son reigned in his stead.

33:21    亞們登基的時候年二十二歲，在耶路撒冷作王二年。
Amon was two and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned two years in Jerusalem.

33:22    他行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，效法他父瑪拿西所行的，祭祀事奉他父瑪拿西所雕刻的偶像，
But he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD, as did Manasseh his father: for Amon sacrificed unto all the carved images which Manasseh his father had made, and served them;

33:23    不在耶和華面前像他父瑪拿西自卑。這亞們所犯的罪越犯越大。
And humbled not himself before the LORD, as Manasseh his father had humbled himself; but Amon trespassed more and more.

33:24    他的臣僕背叛，在宮裡殺了他。
And his servants conspired against him, and slew him in his own house.

33:25    但國民殺了那些背叛亞們王的人，立他兒子約西亞接續他作王。
But the people of the land slew all them that had conspired against king Amon; and the people of the land made Josiah his son king in his stead.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


34:1    約西亞登基的時候年八歲，在耶路撒冷作王三十一年。
Josiah was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned in Jerusalem one and thirty years.

34:2    他行耶和華眼中看為正的事，效法他祖大衛所行的，不偏左右。
And he did that which was right in the sight of the LORD, and walked in the ways of David his father, and declined neither to the right hand, nor to the left.

34:3    他作王第八年，尚且年幼，就尋求他祖大衛的神。到了十二年才潔淨猶大和耶路撒冷，除掉邱壇，木偶，雕刻的像，和鑄造的像。
For in the eighth year of his reign, while he was yet young, he began to seek after the God of David his father: and in the twelfth year he began to purge Judah and Jerusalem from the high places, and the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images.

34:4    眾人在他面前拆毀巴力的壇，砍斷壇上高高的日像，又把木偶和雕刻的像，並鑄造的像打碎成灰，撒在祭偶像人的墳上，
And they brake down the altars of Baalim in his presence; and the images, that were on high above them, he cut down; and the groves, and the carved images, and the molten images, he brake in pieces, and made dust of them, and strowed it upon the graves of them that had sacrificed unto them.

34:5    將他們祭司的骸骨燒在壇上，潔淨了猶大和耶路撒冷。
And he burnt the bones of the priests upon their altars, and cleansed Judah and Jerusalem.

34:6    又在瑪拿西，以法蓮，西緬，拿弗他利各城，和四圍破壞之處，都這樣行。
And so did he in the cities of Manasseh, and Ephraim, and Simeon, even unto Naphtali, with their mattocks round about.

34:7    又拆毀祭壇，把木偶和雕刻的像打碎成灰，砍斷以色列遍地所有的日像，就回耶路撒冷去了。
And when he had broken down the altars and the groves, and had beaten the graven images into powder, and cut down all the idols throughout all the land of Israel, he returned to Jerusalem.

34:8    約西亞王十八年，淨地淨殿之後，就差遣亞薩利雅的兒子沙番，邑宰瑪西雅，約哈斯的兒子史官約亞去修理耶和華他神的殿。
Now in the eighteenth year of his reign, when he had purged the land, and the house, he sent Shaphan the son of Azaliah, and Maaseiah the governor of the city, and Joah the son of Joahaz the recorder, to repair the house of the LORD his God.

34:9    他們就去見大祭司希勒家，將奉到神殿的銀子交給他。這銀子是看守殿門的利未人從瑪拿西，以法蓮，和一切以色列剩下的人，以及猶大，便雅憫眾人，並耶路撒冷的居民收來的。
And when they came to Hilkiah the high priest, they delivered the money that was brought into the house of God, which the Levites that kept the doors had gathered of the hand of Manasseh and Ephraim, and of all the remnant of Israel, and of all Judah and Benjamin; and they returned to Jerusalem.

34:10    又將這銀子交給耶和華殿裡督工的，轉交修理耶和華殿的工匠，
And they put it in the hand of the workmen that had the oversight of the house of the LORD, and they gave it to the workmen that wrought in the house of the LORD, to repair and amend the house:

34:11    就是交給木匠，石匠，買鑿成的石頭和架木與楝樑，修猶大王所毀壞的殿。
Even to the artificers and builders gave they it, to buy hewn stone, and timber for couplings, and to floor the houses which the kings of Judah had destroyed.

34:12    這些人辦事誠實，督工的是利未人米拉利的子孫雅哈，俄巴底。督催的是哥轄的子孫撒迦利亞，米書蘭。還有善於作樂的利未人。
And the men did the work faithfully: and the overseers of them were Jahath and Obadiah, the Levites, of the sons of Merari; and Zechariah and Meshullam, of the sons of the Kohathites, to set it forward; and other of the Levites, all that could skill of instruments of musick.

34:13    他們又監管扛抬的人，督催一切作工的。利未人中也有作書記，作司事，作守門的。
Also they were over the bearers of burdens, and were overseers of all that wrought the work in any manner of service: and of the Levites there were scribes, and officers, and porters.

34:14    他們將奉到耶和華殿的銀子運出來的時候，祭司希勒家偶然得了摩西所傳耶和華的律法書。
And when they brought out the money that was brought into the house of the LORD, Hilkiah the priest found a book of the law of the LORD given by Moses.

34:15    希勒家對書記沙番說，我在耶和華殿裡得了律法書。遂將書遞給沙番。
And Hilkiah answered and said to Shaphan the scribe, I have found the book of the law in the house of the LORD. And Hilkiah delivered the book to Shaphan.

34:16    沙番把書拿到王那裡，回覆王說，凡交給僕人們辦的都辦理了。
And Shaphan carried the book to the king, and brought the king word back again, saying, All that was committed to thy servants, they do it.

34:17    耶和華殿裡的銀子倒出來，交給督工的和匠人的手裡了。
And they have gathered together the money that was found in the house of the LORD, and have delivered it into the hand of the overseers, and to the hand of the workmen.

34:18    書記沙番又對王說，祭司希勒家遞給我一卷書。沙番就在王面前讀那書。
Then Shaphan the scribe told the king, saying, Hilkiah the priest hath given me a book. And Shaphan read it before the king.

34:19    王聽見律法上的話，就撕裂衣服，
And it came to pass, when the king had heard the words of the law, that he rent his clothes.

34:20    吩咐希勒家與沙番的兒子亞希甘，米迦的兒子亞比頓，書記沙番，和王的臣僕亞撒雅說，
And the king commanded Hilkiah, and Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Abdon the son of Micah, and Shaphan the scribe, and Asaiah a servant of the king's, saying,

34:21    你們去為我，為以色列和猶大剩下的人，以這書上的話求問耶和華。因我們列祖沒有遵守耶和華的言語，沒有照這書上所記的去行，耶和華的烈怒就倒在我們身上。
Go, enquire of the LORD for me, and for them that are left in Israel and in Judah, concerning the words of the book that is found: for great is the wrath of the LORD that is poured out upon us, because our fathers have not kept the word of the LORD, to do after all that is written in this book.

34:22    於是，希勒家和王所派的眾人都去見女先知戶勒大。戶勒大是掌管禮服沙龍的妻，沙龍是哈斯拉的孫子，特瓦的兒子。戶勒大住在耶路撒冷第二區。他們請問於她。
And Hilkiah, and they that the king had appointed, went to Huldah the prophetess, the wife of Shallum the son of Tikvath, the son of Hasrah, keeper of the wardrobe; (now she dwelt in Jerusalem in the college:) and they spake to her to that effect.

34:23    她對他們說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們可以回覆那差遣你們來見我的人說，
And she answered them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Tell ye the man that sent you to me,

34:24    耶和華如此說，我必照著在猶大王面前所讀那書上的一切咒詛，降禍與這地和其上的居民。
Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, and upon the inhabitants thereof, even all the curses that are written in the book which they have read before the king of Judah:

34:25    因為他們離棄我，向別神燒香，用他們手所作的惹我發怒，所以我的忿怒如火倒在這地上，總不息滅。
Because they have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, that they might provoke me to anger with all the works of their hands; therefore my wrath shall be poured out upon this place, and shall not be quenched.

34:26    然而差遣你們來求問耶和華的猶大王，你們要這樣回覆他說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，至於你所聽見的話，
And as for the king of Judah, who sent you to enquire of the LORD, so shall ye say unto him, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel concerning the words which thou hast heard;

34:27    就是聽見我指著這地和其上居民所說的話，你便心裡敬服，在我面前自卑，撕裂衣服，向我哭泣，因此我應允了你。這是我耶和華說的。
Because thine heart was tender, and thou didst humble thyself before God, when thou heardest his words against this place, and against the inhabitants thereof, and humbledst thyself before me, and didst rend thy clothes, and weep before me; I have even heard thee also, saith the LORD.

34:28    我必使你平平安安地歸到墳墓，到你列祖那裡，我要降與這地和其上居民的一切災禍，你也不至親眼看見。他們就回覆王去了。
Behold, I will gather thee to thy fathers, and thou shalt be gathered to thy grave in peace, neither shall thine eyes see all the evil that I will bring upon this place, and upon the inhabitants of the same. So they brought the king word again.

34:29    王差遣人招聚猶大和耶路撒冷的眾長老來。
Then the king sent and gathered together all the elders of Judah and Jerusalem.

34:30    王和猶大眾人，與耶路撒冷的居民，並祭司利未人，以及所有的百姓，無論大小，都一同上到耶和華的殿。王就把殿裡所得的約書念給他們聽。
And the king went up into the house of the LORD, and all the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and the priests, and the Levites, and all the people, great and small: and he read in their ears all the words of the book of the covenant that was found in the house of the LORD.

34:31    王站在他的地位上，在耶和華面前立約，要盡心儘性地順從耶和華，遵守他的誡命，法度，律例，成就這書上所記的約言。
And the king stood in his place, and made a covenant before the LORD, to walk after the LORD, and to keep his commandments, and his testimonies, and his statutes, with all his heart, and with all his soul, to perform the words of the covenant which are written in this book.

34:32    又使住耶路撒冷和便雅憫的人都服從這約。於是耶路撒冷的居民都遵行他們列祖之神的約。
And he caused all that were present in Jerusalem and Benjamin to stand to it. And the inhabitants of Jerusalem did according to the covenant of God, the God of their fathers.

34:33    約西亞從以色列各處將一切可憎之物盡都除掉，使以色列境內的人都事奉耶和華他們的神。約西亞在世的日子，就跟從耶和華他們列祖的神，總不離開。
And Josiah took away all the abominations out of all the countries that pertained to the children of Israel, and made all that were present in Israel to serve, even to serve the LORD their God. And all his days they departed not from following the LORD, the God of their fathers.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　


35:1    約西亞在耶路撒冷向耶和華守逾越節。正月十四日，就宰了逾越節的羊羔。
Moreover Josiah kept a passover unto the LORD in Jerusalem: and they killed the passover on the fourteenth day of the first month.

35:2    王分派祭司各盡其職，又勉勵他們辦耶和華殿中的事。
And he set the priests in their charges, and encouraged them to the service of the house of the LORD,

35:3    又對那歸耶和華為聖，教訓以色列人的利未人說，你們將聖約櫃安放在以色列王大衛兒子所羅門建造的殿裡，不必再用肩扛抬。現在要事奉耶和華你們的神，服事他的民以色列。
And said unto the Levites that taught all Israel, which were holy unto the LORD, Put the holy ark in the house which Solomon the son of David king of Israel did build; it shall not be a burden upon your shoulders: serve now the LORD your God, and his people Israel,

35:4    你們應當按著宗族，照著班次，遵以色列王大衛和他兒子所羅門所寫的，自己預備。
And prepare yourselves by the houses of your fathers, after your courses, according to the writing of David king of Israel, and according to the writing of Solomon his son.

35:5    要按著你們的弟兄，這民宗族的班次，站在聖所，每班中要利未宗族的幾個人。
And stand in the holy place according to the divisions of the families of the fathers of your brethren the people, and after the division of the families of the Levites.

35:6    要宰逾越節的羊羔，潔淨自己，為你們的弟兄預備了，好遵守耶和華藉摩西所吩咐的話。
So kill the passover, and sanctify yourselves, and prepare your brethren, that they may do according to the word of the LORD by the hand of Moses.

35:7    約西亞從群畜中賜給在那裡所有的人民，綿羊羔和山羊羔三萬只，牛三千隻，作逾越節的祭物。這都是出自王的產業中。
And Josiah gave to the people, of the flock, lambs and kids, all for the passover offerings, for all that were present, to the number of thirty thousand, and three thousand bullocks: these were of the king's substance.

35:8    約西亞的眾首領也樂意將犧牲給百姓和祭司利未人。又有管理神殿的希勒家，撒迦利亞，耶歇將羊羔二千六百隻，牛三百隻，給祭司作逾越節的祭物。
And his princes gave willingly unto the people, to the priests, and to the Levites: Hilkiah and Zechariah and Jehiel, rulers of the house of God, gave unto the priests for the passover offerings two thousand and six hundred small cattle, and three hundred oxen.

35:9    利未人的族長歌楠雅和他兩個兄弟示瑪雅，拿坦業，與哈沙比雅，耶利，約撒拔將羊羔五千只，牛五百隻，給利未人作逾越節的祭物。
Conaniah also, and Shemaiah and Nethaneel, his brethren, and Hashabiah and Jeiel and Jozabad, chief of the Levites, gave unto the Levites for passover offerings five thousand small cattle, and five hundred oxen.

35:10    這樣，供獻的事齊備了。祭司站在自己的地方，利未人按著班次站立，都是照王所吩咐的。
So the service was prepared, and the priests stood in their place, and the Levites in their courses, according to the king's commandment.

35:11    利未人宰了逾越節的羊羔，祭司從他們手裡接過血來灑在壇上。利未人剝皮，
And they killed the passover, and the priests sprinkled the blood from their hands, and the Levites flayed them.

35:12    將燔祭搬來，按著宗族的班次分給眾民，好照摩西書上所寫的，獻給耶和華。獻牛也是這樣。
And they removed the burnt offerings, that they might give according to the divisions of the families of the people, to offer unto the LORD, as it is written in the book of Moses. And so did they with the oxen.

35:13    他們按著常例，用火烤逾越節的羊羔。別的聖物用鍋，用釜，用罐煮了，速速地送給眾民。
And they roasted the passover with fire according to the ordinance: but the other holy offerings sod they in pots, and in caldrons, and in pans, and divided them speedily among all the people.

35:14    然後為自己和祭司預備祭物。因為祭司亞倫的子孫獻燔祭和脂油，直到晚上。所以利未人為自己和祭司亞倫的子孫，預備祭物。
And afterward they made ready for themselves, and for the priests: because the priests the sons of Aaron were busied in offering of burnt offerings and the fat until night; therefore the Levites prepared for themselves, and for the priests the sons of Aaron.

35:15    歌唱的亞薩之子孫，照著大衛，亞薩，希幔，和王的先見耶杜頓所吩咐的，站在自己的地位上。守門的看守各門，不用離開他們的職事，因為他們的弟兄利未人給他們預備祭物。
And the singers the sons of Asaph were in their place, according to the commandment of David, and Asaph, and Heman, and Jeduthun the king's seer; and the porters waited at every gate; they might not depart from their service; for their brethren the Levites prepared for them.

35:16    當日，供奉耶和華的事齊備了，就照約西亞王的吩咐守逾越節，獻燔祭在耶和華的壇上。
So all the service of the LORD was prepared the same day, to keep the passover, and to offer burnt offerings upon the altar of the LORD, according to the commandment of king Josiah.

35:17    當時在耶路撒冷的以色列人守逾越節，又守除酵節七日。
And the children of Israel that were present kept the passover at that time, and the feast of unleavened bread seven days.

35:18    自從先知撒母耳以來，在以色列中沒有守過這樣的逾越節，以色列諸王也沒有守過，像約西亞，祭司，利未人，在那裡的猶大人，和以色列人，以及耶路撒冷居民所守的逾越節。
And there was no passover like to that kept in Israel from the days of Samuel the prophet; neither did all the kings of Israel keep such a passover as Josiah kept, and the priests, and the Levites, and all Judah and Israel that were present, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

35:19    這逾越節是約西亞作王十八年守的。
In the eighteenth year of the reign of Josiah was this passover kept.

35:20    這事以後，約西亞修完了殿，有埃及王尼哥上來，要攻擊靠近幼發拉底河的迦基米施。約西亞出去抵擋他。
After all this, when Josiah had prepared the temple, Necho king of Egypt came up to fight against Charchemish by Euphrates: and Josiah went out against him.

35:21    他差遣使者來見約西亞，說，猶大王阿，我與你何干。我今日來不是要攻擊你，乃是要攻擊與我爭戰之家，並且神吩咐我速行，你不要干預神的事，免得他毀滅你，因為神是與我同在。
But he sent ambassadors to him, saying, What have I to do with thee, thou king of Judah? I come not against thee this day, but against the house wherewith I have war: for God commanded me to make haste: forbear thee from meddling with God, who is with me, that he destroy thee not.

35:22    約西亞卻不肯轉去離開他，改裝要與他打仗，不聽從神藉尼哥之口所說的話，便來到米吉多平原爭戰。
Nevertheless Josiah would not turn his face from him, but disguised himself, that he might fight with him, and hearkened not unto the words of Necho from the mouth of God, and came to fight in the valley of Megiddo.

35:23    弓箭手射中約西亞王。王對他的臣僕說，我受了重傷，你拉我出陣吧。
And the archers shot at king Josiah; and the king said to his servants, Have me away; for I am sore wounded.

35:24    他的臣僕扶他下了戰車，上了次車，送他到耶路撒冷，他就死了，葬在他列祖的墳墓裡。猶大人和耶路撒冷人都為他悲哀。
His servants therefore took him out of that chariot, and put him in the second chariot that he had; and they brought him to Jerusalem, and he died, and was buried in one of the sepulchres of his fathers. And all Judah and Jerusalem mourned for Josiah.

35:25    耶利米為約西亞作哀歌。所有歌唱的男女也唱哀歌，追悼約西亞，直到今日。而且在以色列中成了定例。這歌載在哀歌書上。
And Jeremiah lamented for Josiah: and all the singing men and the singing women spake of Josiah in their lamentations to this day, and made them an ordinance in Israel: and, behold, they are written in the lamentations.

35:26    約西亞其餘的事和他遵著耶和華律法上所記而行的善事，
Now the rest of the acts of Josiah, and his goodness, according to that which was written in the law of the LORD,

35:27    並他自始至終所行的，都寫在以色列和猶大列王記上。
And his deeds, first and last, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah.




舊約 -- 歷代記下(2 Chronicles) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 36 章 )    　




36:1    國民立約西亞的兒子約哈斯在耶路撒冷接續他父作王。
Then the people of the land took Jehoahaz the son of Josiah, and made him king in his father's stead in Jerusalem.

36:2    約哈斯登基的時候年二十三歲，在耶路撒冷作王三個月。
Jehoahaz was twenty and three years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months in Jerusalem.

36:3    埃及王在耶路撒冷廢了他，又罰猶大國銀子一百他連得，金子一他連得。
And the king of Egypt put him down at Jerusalem, and condemned the land in an hundred talents of silver and a talent of gold.

36:4    埃及王尼哥立約哈斯的哥哥以利雅敬作猶大和耶路撒冷的王，改名叫約雅敬，又將約哈斯帶到埃及去了。
And the king of Egypt made Eliakim his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem, and turned his name to Jehoiakim. And Necho took Jehoahaz his brother, and carried him to Egypt.

36:5    約雅敬登基的時候年二十五歲，在耶路撒冷作王十一年，行耶和華他神眼中看為惡的事。
Jehoiakim was twenty and five years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God.

36:6    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒上來攻擊他，用銅鏈鎖著他，要將他帶到巴比倫去。
Against him came up Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and bound him in fetters, to carry him to Babylon.

36:7    尼布甲尼撒又將耶和華殿裡的器皿帶到巴比倫，放在他神的廟裡（或作自己的宮裡）。
Nebuchadnezzar also carried of the vessels of the house of the LORD to Babylon, and put them in his temple at Babylon.

36:8    約雅敬其餘的事和他所行可憎的事，並他一切的行為，都寫在以色列和猶大列王記上。他兒子約雅斤接續他作王。
Now the rest of the acts of Jehoiakim, and his abominations which he did, and that which was found in him, behold, they are written in the book of the kings of Israel and Judah: and Jehoiachin his son reigned in his stead.



36:9    約雅斤登基的時候年八歲（列王下二十四章八節作十八歲），在耶路撒冷作王三個月零十天，行耶和華眼中看為惡的事。
Jehoiachin was eight years old when he began to reign, and he reigned three months and ten days in Jerusalem: and he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD.

36:10    過了一年，尼布甲尼撒差遣人將約雅斤和耶和華殿裡各樣寶貴的器皿帶到巴比倫，就立約雅斤的叔叔（原文作兄）西底家，作猶大和耶路撒冷的王。
And when the year was expired, king Nebuchadnezzar sent, and brought him to Babylon, with the goodly vessels of the house of the LORD, and made Zedekiah his brother king over Judah and Jerusalem.



36:11    西底家登基的時候年二十一歲，在耶路撒冷作王十一年，
Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign, and reigned eleven years in Jerusalem.

36:12    行耶和華他神眼中看為惡的事。先知耶利米以耶和華的話勸他，他仍不在耶利米麵前自卑。
And he did that which was evil in the sight of the LORD his God, and humbled not himself before Jeremiah the prophet speaking from the mouth of the LORD.

36:13    尼布甲尼撒曾使他指著神起誓，他卻背叛，強項硬心，不歸服耶和華以色列的神。
And he also rebelled against king Nebuchadnezzar, who had made him swear by God: but he stiffened his neck, and hardened his heart from turning unto the LORD God of Israel.

36:14    眾祭司長和百姓也大大犯罪，效法外邦人一切可憎的事，汙穢耶和華在耶路撒冷分別為聖的殿。
Moreover all the chief of the priests, and the people, transgressed very much after all the abominations of the heathen; and polluted the house of the LORD which he had hallowed in Jerusalem.

36:15    耶和華他們列祖的神因為愛惜自己的民和他的居所，從早起來差遣使者去警戒他們。
And the LORD God of their fathers sent to them by his messengers, rising up betimes, and sending; because he had compassion on his people, and on his dwelling place:

36:16    他們卻嘻笑神的使者，藐視他的言語，譏誚他的先知，以致耶和華的忿怒向他的百姓發作，無法可救。
But they mocked the messengers of God, and despised his words, and misused his prophets, until the wrath of the LORD arose against his people, till there was no remedy.

36:17    所以，耶和華使迦勒底人的王來攻擊他們，在他們聖殿裡用刀殺了他們的壯丁，不憐恤他們的少男處女，老人白叟。耶和華將他們都交在迦勒底王手裡。
Therefore he brought upon them the king of the Chaldees, who slew their young men with the sword in the house of their sanctuary, and had no compassion upon young man or maiden, old man, or him that stooped for age: he gave them all into his hand.

36:18    迦勒底王將神殿裡的大小器皿與耶和華殿裡的財寶，並王和眾首領的財寶，都帶到巴比倫去了。
And all the vessels of the house of God, great and small, and the treasures of the house of the LORD, and the treasures of the king, and of his princes; all these he brought to Babylon.

36:19    迦勒底人焚燒神的殿，拆毀耶路撒冷的城牆，用火燒了城裡的宮殿，毀壞了城裡寶貴的器皿。
And they burnt the house of God, and brake down the wall of Jerusalem, and burnt all the palaces thereof with fire, and destroyed all the goodly vessels thereof.

36:20    凡脫離刀劍的，迦勒底王都擄到巴比倫去，作他和他子孫的僕婢，直到波斯國興起來。
And them that had escaped from the sword carried he away to Babylon; where they were servants to him and his sons until the reign of the kingdom of Persia:

36:21    這就應驗耶和華藉耶利米口所說的話，地享受安息。因為地土荒涼便守安息，直滿了七十年。
To fulfil the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah, until the land had enjoyed her sabbaths: for as long as she lay desolate she kept sabbath, to fulfil threescore and ten years.

36:22    波斯王居魯士元年，耶和華為要應驗藉耶利米口所說的話，就激動波斯王塞魯士的心，使他下詔通告全國，說，
Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the LORD spoken by the mouth of Jeremiah might be accomplished, the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying,

36:23    波斯王居魯士如此說，耶和華天上的神已將天下萬國賜給我，又囑咐我在猶大的耶路撒冷為他建造殿宇。你們中間凡作他子民的，可以上去，願耶和華他的神與他同在。
Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, All the kingdoms of the earth hath the LORD God of heaven given me; and he hath charged me to build him an house in Jerusalem, which is in Judah. Who is there among you of all his people? The LORD his God be with him, and let him go up.



