



舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


1:1    波斯王居魯士元年，耶和華為要應驗藉耶利米口所說的話，就激動波斯王塞魯士的心，使他下詔通告全國，說，
Now in the first year of Cyrus king of Persia, that the word of the LORD by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the LORD stirred up the spirit of Cyrus king of Persia, that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and put it also in writing, saying,

1:2    波斯王居魯士如此說，耶和華天上的神，已將天下萬國賜給我。又囑咐我在猶大的耶路撒冷，為他建造殿宇。
Thus saith Cyrus king of Persia, The LORD God of heaven hath given me all the kingdoms of the earth; and he hath charged me to build him an house at Jerusalem, which is in Judah.

1:3    在你們中間凡作他子民的，可以上猶大的耶路撒冷，在耶路撒冷重建耶和華以色列神的殿（只有他是神）。願神與這人同在。
Who is there among you of all his people? his God be with him, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and build the house of the LORD God of Israel, (he is the God,) which is in Jerusalem.

1:4    凡剩下的人，無論寄居何處，那地的人要用金銀，財物，牲畜幫助他，另外也要為耶路撒冷神的殿甘心獻上禮物。
And whosoever remaineth in any place where he sojourneth, let the men of his place help him with silver, and with gold, and with goods, and with beasts, beside the freewill offering for the house of God that is in Jerusalem.

1:5    於是，猶大和便雅憫的族長，祭司，利未人，就是一切被神激動他心的人，都起來要上耶路撒冷去建造耶和華的殿。
Then rose up the chief of the fathers of Judah and Benjamin, and the priests, and the Levites, with all them whose spirit God had raised, to go up to build the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem.

1:6    他們四圍的人就拿銀器，金子，財物，牲畜，珍寶幫助他們（原文是堅固他們的手），另外還有甘心獻的禮物。
And all they that were about them strengthened their hands with vessels of silver, with gold, with goods, and with beasts, and with precious things, beside all that was willingly offered.

1:7    居魯士王也將耶和華殿的器皿拿出來，這器皿是尼布甲尼撒從耶路撒冷掠來，放在自己神之廟中的。
Also Cyrus the king brought forth the vessels of the house of the LORD, which Nebuchadnezzar had brought forth out of Jerusalem, and had put them in the house of his gods;

1:8    波斯王居魯士派庫官米提利達將這器皿拿出來，按數交給猶大的首領設巴薩。
Even those did Cyrus king of Persia bring forth by the hand of Mithredath the treasurer, and numbered them unto Sheshbazzar, the prince of Judah.

1:9    器皿的數目記在下面。金盤三十個，銀盤一千個，刀二十九把，
And this is the number of them: thirty chargers of gold, a thousand chargers of silver, nine and twenty knives,

1:10    金碗三十個，銀碗之次的四百一十個，別樣的器皿一千件。
Thirty basons of gold, silver basons of a second sort four hundred and ten, and other vessels a thousand.

1:11    金銀器皿共有五千四百件。被擄的人從巴比倫上耶路撒冷的時候，設巴薩將這一切都帶上來。
All the vessels of gold and of silver were five thousand and four hundred. All these did Sheshbazzar bring up with them of the captivity that were brought up from Babylon unto Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


2:1    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒，從前擄到巴比倫之猶大省的人，現在他們的子孫，從被擄到之地，回耶路撒冷和猶大，各歸本城。
Now these are the children of the province that went up out of the captivity, of those which had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away unto Babylon, and came again unto Jerusalem and Judah, every one unto his city;

2:2    他們是同著所羅巴伯，耶書亞，尼希米，西萊雅，利來雅，末底改，必珊，米斯拔，比革瓦伊，利巨集，巴拿回來的。
Which came with Zerubbabel: Jeshua, Nehemiah, Seraiah, Reelaiah, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mizpar, Bigvai, Rehum, Baanah. The number of the men of the people of Israel:

2:3    以色列人民的數目記在下面。巴錄的子孫二千一百七十二名。
The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two.

2:4    示法提雅的子孫三百七十二名。
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

2:5    亞拉的子孫七百七十五名。
The children of Arah, seven hundred seventy and five.

2:6    巴哈摩押的後裔，就是耶書亞，和約押的子孫二千八百一十二名。
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand eight hundred and twelve.

2:7    以攔的子孫一千二百五十四名。
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

2:8    薩土的子孫九百四十五名。
The children of Zattu, nine hundred forty and five.

2:9    薩改的子孫七百六十名。
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

2:10    巴尼的子孫六百四十二名。
The children of Bani, six hundred forty and two.

2:11    比拜的子孫六百二十三名。
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and three.

2:12    押甲的子孫一千二百二十二名。
The children of Azgad, a thousand two hundred twenty and two.

2:13    亞多尼乾的子孫六百六十六名；
The children of Adonikam, six hundred sixty and six.

2:14    比革瓦伊的子孫二千零五十六名。
The children of Bigvai, two thousand fifty and six.

2:15    亞丁的子孫四百五十四名。
The children of Adin, four hundred fifty and four.

2:16    亞特的後裔，就是希西家的子孫九十八名。
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

2:17    比賽的子孫三百二十三名。
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and three.

2:18    約拉的子孫一百一十二名。
The children of Jorah, an hundred and twelve.

2:19    哈順的子孫二百二十三名。
The children of Hashum, two hundred twenty and three.

2:20    吉吧珥人九十五名。
The children of Gibbar, ninety and five.

2:21    伯利恆人一百二十三名。
The children of Bethlehem, an hundred twenty and three.

2:22    尼陀法人五十六名。
The men of Netophah, fifty and six.

2:23    亞拿突人一百二十八名。
The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

2:24    亞斯瑪弗人四十二名。
The children of Azmaveth, forty and two.

2:25    基列耶琳人，基非拉人，比錄人共七百四十三名。
The children of Kirjatharim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred and forty and three.

2:26    拉瑪人，迦巴人共六百二十一名。
The children of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.

2:27    默瑪人一百二十二名。
The men of Michmas, an hundred twenty and two.

2:28    伯特利人，艾人共二百二十三名。
The men of Bethel and Ai, two hundred twenty and three.

2:29    尼波人五十二名。
The children of Nebo, fifty and two.

2:30    末必人一百五十六名。
The children of Magbish, an hundred fifty and six.

2:31    別的以攔子孫一千二百五十四名。
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

2:32    哈琳的子孫三百二十名。
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.

2:33    羅德人，哈第人，阿挪人共七百二十五名。
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and five.

2:34    耶利哥人三百四十五名。
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

2:35    西拿人三千六百三十名。
The children of Senaah, three thousand and six hundred and thirty.

2:36    祭司，耶書亞家耶大雅的子孫九百七十三名。
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three.

2:37    音麥的子孫一千零五十二名。
The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.

2:38    巴施戶珥的子孫一千二百四十七名。
The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.

2:39    哈琳的子孫一千零一十七名。
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.

2:40    利未人，何達威雅的後裔，就是耶書亞和甲篾的子孫七十四名。
The Levites: the children of Jeshua and Kadmiel, of the children of Hodaviah, seventy and four.

2:41    歌唱的，亞薩的子孫一百二十八名。
The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred twenty and eight.

2:42    守門的，沙龍的子孫，亞特的子孫，達們的子孫，亞谷的子孫，哈底大的子孫，朔拜的子孫，共一百三十九名。
The children of the porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, in all an hundred thirty and nine.

2:43    尼提寧（就是殿役），西哈的子孫，哈蘇巴的子孫，答巴俄的子孫，
The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hasupha, the children of Tabbaoth,

2:44    基綠的子孫，西亞的子孫，巴頓的子孫，
The children of Keros, the children of Siaha, the children of Padon,

2:45    利巴拿的子孫，哈迦巴的子孫，亞谷的子孫，
The children of Lebanah, the children of Hagabah, the children of Akkub,

2:46    哈甲的子孫，薩買的子孫，哈難的子孫，
The children of Hagab, the children of Shalmai, the children of Hanan,

2:47    吉德的子孫，迦哈的子孫，利亞雅的子孫，
The children of Giddel, the children of Gahar, the children of Reaiah,

2:48    利汛的子孫，尼哥大的子孫，迦散的子孫，
The children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda, the children of Gazzam,

2:49    烏撒的子孫，巴西亞的子孫，比賽的子孫，
The children of Uzza, the children of Paseah, the children of Besai,

2:50    押拿的子孫，米烏寧的子孫，尼普心的子孫，
The children of Asnah, the children of Mehunim, the children of Nephusim,

2:51    巴卜的子孫，哈古巴的子孫，哈忽的子孫，
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,

2:52    巴洗律的子孫，米希大的子孫，哈沙的子孫，
The children of Bazluth, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,

2:53    巴柯的子孫，西西拉的子孫，答瑪的子孫，
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Thamah,

2:54    尼細亞的子孫，哈提法的子孫。
The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

2:55    所羅門僕人的後裔，就是瑣太的子孫，瑣斐列的子孫，比路大的子孫，
The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Peruda,

2:56    雅拉的子孫，達昆的子孫，吉德的子孫，
The children of Jaalah, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,

2:57    示法提雅的子孫，哈替的子孫，玻黑列哈斯巴音的子孫，亞米的子孫。
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Ami.

2:58    尼提寧，和所羅門僕人的後裔，共三百九十二名。
All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety and two.

2:59    從特米拉，特哈薩，基綠，押但，音麥上來的，不能指明他們的宗族譜系是以色列人不是。
And these were they which went up from Telmelah, Telharsa, Cherub, Addan, and Immer: but they could not shew their father's house, and their seed, whether they were of Israel:

2:60    他們是第來雅的子孫，多比雅的子孫，尼哥大的子孫，共六百五十二名。
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred fifty and two.

2:61    祭司中，哈巴雅的子孫，哈哥斯的子孫，巴西萊的子孫。因為他們的先祖，娶了基列人，巴西萊的女兒為妻，所以起名叫巴西萊。
And of the children of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai; which took a wife of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite, and was called after their name:

2:62    這三家的人在族譜之中，尋查自己的譜系，卻尋不著，因此算為不潔，不準供祭司的職任。
These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but they were not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood.

2:63    省長對他們說，不可吃至聖的物，直到有用烏陵和土明，決疑的祭司興起來。
And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and with Thummim.

2:64    會眾共有四萬二千三百六十名。
The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore,

2:65    此外，還有他們的僕婢七千三百三十七名，又有歌唱的男女二百名。
Beside their servants and their maids, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and there were among them two hundred singing men and singing women.

2:66    他們有馬七百三十六匹，騾子二百四十五匹，
Their horses were seven hundred thirty and six; their mules, two hundred forty and five;

2:67    駱駝四百三十五隻，驢六千七百二十匹。
Their camels, four hundred thirty and five; their asses, six thousand seven hundred and twenty.

2:68    有些族長到了耶路撒冷耶和華殿的地方，便為神的殿甘心獻上禮物，要重新建造。
And some of the chief of the fathers, when they came to the house of the LORD which is at Jerusalem, offered freely for the house of God to set it up in his place:

2:69    他們量力捐入工程庫的金子六萬一千達利克，銀子五千彌拿，並祭司的禮服一百件。
They gave after their ability unto the treasure of the work threescore and one thousand drams of gold, and five thousand pound of silver, and one hundred priests' garments.

2:70    於是祭司，利未人，民中的一些人，歌唱的，守門的，尼提寧，並以色列眾人，各住在自己的城裡。
So the priests, and the Levites, and some of the people, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims, dwelt in their cities, and all Israel in their cities.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


3:1    到了七月，以色列人住在各城，那時他們如同一人，聚集在耶路撒冷。
And when the seventh month was come, and the children of Israel were in the cities, the people gathered themselves together as one man to Jerusalem.

3:2    約薩達的兒子耶書亞和他的弟兄眾祭司，並撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，與他的弟兄，都起來建築以色列神的壇，要照神人摩西律法書上所寫的，在壇上獻燔祭。
Then stood up Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brethren the priests, and Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and his brethren, and builded the altar of the God of Israel, to offer burnt offerings thereon, as it is written in the law of Moses the man of God.

3:3    他們在原有的根基上築壇，因懼怕鄰國的民，又在其上向耶和華早晚獻燔祭。
And they set the altar upon his bases; for fear was upon them because of the people of those countries: and they offered burnt offerings thereon unto the LORD, even burnt offerings morning and evening.

3:4    又照律法書上所寫的守住棚節，按數照例獻每日所當獻的燔祭。
They kept also the feast of tabernacles, as it is written, and offered the daily burnt offerings by number, according to the custom, as the duty of every day required;

3:5    其後獻常獻的燔祭，並在月朔與耶和華的一切聖節獻祭，又向耶和華獻各人的甘心祭。
And afterward offered the continual burnt offering, both of the new moons, and of all the set feasts of the LORD that were consecrated, and of every one that willingly offered a freewill offering unto the LORD.



3:6    從七月初一日起，他們就向耶和華獻燔祭。但耶和華殿的根基尚未立定。
From the first day of the seventh month began they to offer burnt offerings unto the LORD. But the foundation of the temple of the LORD was not yet laid.

3:7    他們又將銀子給石匠，木匠。把糧食，酒，油給西頓人，推羅人，使他們將香柏樹從黎巴嫩運到海里，浮海運到約帕，是照波斯王居魯士所允准的。
They gave money also unto the masons, and to the carpenters; and meat, and drink, and oil, unto them of Zidon, and to them of Tyre, to bring cedar trees from Lebanon to the sea of Joppa, according to the grant that they had of Cyrus king of Persia.

3:8    百姓到了耶路撒冷神殿的地方。第二年二月，撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，約薩達的兒子，耶書亞和其餘的弟兄，就是祭司，利未人，並一切被擄歸回耶路撒冷的人，都興工建造。又派利未人，從二十歲以外的，督理建造耶和華殿的工作。
Now in the second year of their coming unto the house of God at Jerusalem, in the second month, began Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and the remnant of their brethren the priests and the Levites, and all they that were come out of the captivity unto Jerusalem; and appointed the Levites, from twenty years old and upward, to set forward the work of the house of the LORD.

3:9    於是猶大（拉02：40作何達威雅）的後裔，就是耶書亞和他的子孫與弟兄。甲篾和他的子孫，利未人希拿達的子孫與弟兄，都一同起來，督理那在神殿做工的人。
Then stood Jeshua with his sons and his brethren, Kadmiel and his sons, the sons of Judah, together, to set forward the workmen in the house of God: the sons of Henadad, with their sons and their brethren the Levites.

3:10    匠人立耶和華殿根基的時候，祭司皆穿禮服吹號，亞薩的子孫利未人敲鈸，照以色列王大衛所定的例，都站著讚美耶和華。
And when the builders laid the foundation of the temple of the LORD, they set the priests in their apparel with trumpets, and the Levites the sons of Asaph with cymbals, to praise the LORD, after the ordinance of David king of Israel.

3:11    他們彼此唱和，讚美稱謝耶和華說，他本為善，他向以色列人永發慈愛。他們讚美耶和華的時候，眾民大聲呼喊，因耶和華殿的根基已經立定。
And they sang together by course in praising and giving thanks unto the LORD; because he is good, for his mercy endureth for ever toward Israel. And all the people shouted with a great shout, when they praised the LORD, because the foundation of the house of the LORD was laid.

3:12    然而有許多祭司，利未人，族長，就是見過舊殿的老年人，現在親眼看見立這殿的根基，便大聲哭號，也有許多人大聲歡呼。
But many of the priests and Levites and chief of the fathers, who were ancient men, that had seen the first house, when the foundation of this house was laid before their eyes, wept with a loud voice; and many shouted aloud for joy:

3:13    甚至百姓不能分辨歡呼的聲音，和哭號的聲音。因為眾人大聲呼喊，聲音聽到遠處。
So that the people could not discern the noise of the shout of joy from the noise of the weeping of the people: for the people shouted with a loud shout, and the noise was heard afar off.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


4:1    猶大和便雅憫的敵人，聽說被擄歸回的人，為耶和華以色列的神建造殿宇，
Now when the adversaries of Judah and Benjamin heard that the children of the captivity builded the temple unto the LORD God of Israel;

4:2    就去見所羅巴伯和以色列的族長，對他們說，請容我們與你們一同建造。因為我們尋求你們的神，與你們一樣。自從亞述王以撒哈頓帶我們上這地以來，我們常祭祀神。
Then they came to Zerubbabel, and to the chief of the fathers, and said unto them, Let us build with you: for we seek your God, as ye do; and we do sacrifice unto him since the days of Esarhaddon king of Assur, which brought us up hither.

4:3    但所羅巴伯，耶書亞，和其餘以色列的族長對他們說，我們建造神的殿與你們無干，我們自己為耶和華以色列的神協力建造，是照波斯王居魯士所吩咐的。
But Zerubbabel, and Jeshua, and the rest of the chief of the fathers of Israel, said unto them, Ye have nothing to do with us to build an house unto our God; but we ourselves together will build unto the LORD God of Israel, as king Cyrus the king of Persia hath commanded us.

4:4    那地的民，就在猶大人建造的時候，使他們的手發軟，擾亂他們。
Then the people of the land weakened the hands of the people of Judah, and troubled them in building,

4:5    從波斯王居魯士年間，直到波斯王大流士登基的時候，賄買謀士，要敗壞他們的謀算。
And hired counsellors against them, to frustrate their purpose, all the days of Cyrus king of Persia, even until the reign of Darius king of Persia.

4:6    在亞哈隨魯才登基的時候，上本控告猶大和耶路撒冷的居民。
And in the reign of Ahasuerus, in the beginning of his reign, wrote they unto him an accusation against the inhabitants of Judah and Jerusalem.

4:7    亞達薛西年間，比施蘭，米特利達，他別，和他們的同黨，上本奏告波斯王亞達薛西。本章是用亞蘭文字，亞蘭方言。
And in the days of Artaxerxes wrote Bishlam, Mithredath, Tabeel, and the rest of their companions, unto Artaxerxes king of Persia; and the writing of the letter was written in the Syrian tongue, and interpreted in the Syrian tongue.

4:8    省長利巨集，書記伸帥要控告耶路撒冷人，也上本奏告亞達薛西王。
Rehum the chancellor and Shimshai the scribe wrote a letter against Jerusalem to Artaxerxes the king in this sort:

4:9    省長利巨集，書記伸帥，和同黨的底拿人，亞法薩提迦人，他毗拉人，亞法撒人，亞基衛人，巴比倫人，書珊迦人，底亥人，以攔人，
Then wrote Rehum the chancellor, and Shimshai the scribe, and the rest of their companions; the Dinaites, the Apharsathchites, the Tarpelites, the Apharsites, the Archevites, the Babylonians, the Susanchites, the Dehavites, and the Elamites,

4:10    和尊大的亞斯那巴所遷移，安置在撒瑪利亞城，並大河西一帶地方的人等，
And the rest of the nations whom the great and noble Asnapper brought over, and set in the cities of Samaria, and the rest that are on this side the river, and at such a time.

4:11    上奏亞達薛西王說，河西的臣民云云。
This is the copy of the letter that they sent unto him, even unto Artaxerxes the king; Thy servants the men on this side the river, and at such a time.

4:12    王該知道，從王那裡上到我們這裡的猶大人，已經到耶路撒冷重建，這反叛惡劣的城，築立根基，建造城牆。
Be it known unto the king, that the Jews which came up from thee to us are come unto Jerusalem, building the rebellious and the bad city, and have set up the walls thereof, and joined the foundations.

4:13    如今王該知道，他們若建造這城，城牆完畢就不再與王進貢，交課，納稅，終久王必受虧損。
Be it known now unto the king, that, if this city be builded, and the walls set up again, then will they not pay toll, tribute, and custom, and so thou shalt endamage the revenue of the kings.

4:14    我們既食御鹽，不忍見王吃虧，因此奏告於王。
Now because we have maintenance from the king's palace, and it was not meet for us to see the king's dishonour, therefore have we sent and certified the king;

4:15    請王考察先王的實錄，必在其上查知這城是反叛的城，與列王和各省有害。自古以來，其中常有悖逆的事，因此這城曾被拆毀。
That search may be made in the book of the records of thy fathers: so shalt thou find in the book of the records, and know that this city is a rebellious city, and hurtful unto kings and provinces, and that they have moved sedition within the same of old time: for which cause was this city destroyed.

4:16    我們謹奏王知，這城若再建造，城牆完畢，河西之地王就無分了。
We certify the king that, if this city be builded again, and the walls thereof set up, by this means thou shalt have no portion on this side the river.

4:17    那時王諭覆省長利巨集，書記伸帥，和他們的同黨，就是住撒瑪利亞並河西一帶地方的人，說，願你們平安云云。
Then sent the king an answer unto Rehum the chancellor, and to Shimshai the scribe, and to the rest of their companions that dwell in Samaria, and unto the rest beyond the river, Peace, and at such a time.

4:18    你們所上的本，已經明讀在我面前。
The letter which ye sent unto us hath been plainly read before me.

4:19    我已命人考查，得知此城古來果然背叛列王，其中常有反叛悖逆的事。
And I commanded, and search hath been made, and it is found that this city of old time hath made insurrection against kings, and that rebellion and sedition have been made therein.

4:20    從前耶路撒冷也有大君王統管河西全地，人就給他們進貢，交課，納稅。
There have been mighty kings also over Jerusalem, which have ruled over all countries beyond the river; and toll, tribute, and custom, was paid unto them.

4:21    現在你們要出告示命這些人停工，使這城不得建造，等我降旨。
Give ye now commandment to cause these men to cease, and that this city be not builded, until another commandment shall be given from me.

4:22    你們當謹慎，不可遲延，為何容害加重，使王受虧損呢。
Take heed now that ye fail not to do this: why should damage grow to the hurt of the kings?

4:23    亞達薛西王的上諭讀在利巨集和書記伸帥，並他們的同黨面前，他們就急忙往耶路撒冷去見猶大人，用勢力強迫他們停工。
Now when the copy of king Artaxerxes' letter was read before Rehum, and Shimshai the scribe, and their companions, they went up in haste to Jerusalem unto the Jews, and made them to cease by force and power.

4:24    於是，在耶路撒冷神殿的工程就停止了，直停到波斯王大流士第二年。
Then ceased the work of the house of God which is at Jerusalem. So it ceased unto the second year of the reign of Darius king of Persia.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


5:1    那時，先知哈該，和易多的孫子撒迦利亞，奉以色列神的名向猶大和耶路撒冷的猶大人說勸勉的話。
Then the prophets, Haggai the prophet, and Zechariah the son of Iddo, prophesied unto the Jews that were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel, even unto them.

5:2    於是撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，和約薩達的兒子耶書亞，都起來動手建造耶路撒冷神的殿，有神的先知在那裡幫助他們。
Then rose up Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and began to build the house of God which is at Jerusalem: and with them were the prophets of God helping them.

5:3    當時河西的總督達乃和示他波斯乃，並他們的同黨來問說，誰降旨讓你們建造這殿，修成這牆呢。
At the same time came to them Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and their companions, and said thus unto them, Who hath commanded you to build this house, and to make up this wall?

5:4    我們便告訴他們建造這殿的人叫什麼名字。
Then said we unto them after this manner, What are the names of the men that make this building?

5:5    神的眼目看顧猶大的長老，以致總督等沒有叫他們停工，直到這事奏告大流士得著他的回諭。
But the eye of their God was upon the elders of the Jews, that they could not cause them to cease, till the matter came to Darius: and then they returned answer by letter concerning this matter.

5:6    河西的總督達乃和示他波斯乃，並他們的同黨，就是住河西的亞法薩迦人，上本奏告大流士王。
The copy of the letter that Tatnai, governor on this side the river, and Shetharboznai, and his companions the Apharsachites, which were on this side the river, sent unto Darius the king:

5:7    本上寫著說，願大流士王諸事平安。
They sent a letter unto him, wherein was written thus; Unto Darius the king, all peace.

5:8    王該知道，我們往猶大省去，到了至大神的殿，這殿是用大石建造的。梁木插入牆內，工作甚速，他們手下亨通。
Be it known unto the king, that we went into the province of Judea, to the house of the great God, which is builded with great stones, and timber is laid in the walls, and this work goeth fast on, and prospereth in their hands.

5:9    我們就問那些長老說，誰降旨讓你們建造這殿，修成這牆呢。
Then asked we those elders, and said unto them thus, Who commanded you to build this house, and to make up these walls?

5:10    又問他們的名字，要記錄他們首領的名字，奏告於王。
We asked their names also, to certify thee, that we might write the names of the men that were the chief of them.

5:11    他們回答說，我們是天地之神的僕人，重建前多年所建造的殿，就是以色列的一位大君王建造修成的。
And thus they returned us answer, saying, We are the servants of the God of heaven and earth, and build the house that was builded these many years ago, which a great king of Israel builded and set up.

5:12    只因我們列祖惹天上的神發怒，神把他們交在迦勒底人，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的手中，他就拆毀這殿，又將百姓擄到巴比倫。
But after that our fathers had provoked the God of heaven unto wrath, he gave them into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, the Chaldean, who destroyed this house, and carried the people away into Babylon.

5:13    然而巴比倫王居魯士元年，他降旨允准建造神的這殿。
But in the first year of Cyrus the king of Babylon the same king Cyrus made a decree to build this house of God.

5:14    神殿中的金，銀器皿，就是尼布甲尼撒從耶路撒冷的殿中掠去，帶到巴比倫廟裡的，居魯士王從巴比倫廟裡取出來，交給派為省長的，名叫設巴薩，
And the vessels also of gold and silver of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took out of the temple that was in Jerusalem, and brought them into the temple of Babylon, those did Cyrus the king take out of the temple of Babylon, and they were delivered unto one, whose name was Sheshbazzar, whom he had made governor;

5:15    對他說可以將這些器皿帶去，放在耶路撒冷的殿中，在原處建造神的殿。
And said unto him, Take these vessels, go, carry them into the temple that is in Jerusalem, and let the house of God be builded in his place.

5:16    於是這設巴薩來建立耶路撒冷神殿的根基。這殿從那時直到如今尚未造成。
Then came the same Sheshbazzar, and laid the foundation of the house of God which is in Jerusalem: and since that time even until now hath it been in building, and yet it is not finished.

5:17    現在王若以為美，請察巴比倫王的府庫，看居魯士王降旨允准在耶路撒冷建造神的殿沒有，王的心意如何。請降旨曉諭我們。
Now therefore, if it seem good to the king, let there be search made in the king's treasure house, which is there at Babylon, whether it be so, that a decree was made of Cyrus the king to build this house of God at Jerusalem, and let the king send his pleasure to us concerning this matter.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


6:1    於是大流士王降旨，要尋察典籍庫內，就是在巴比倫藏寶物之處。
Then Darius the king made a decree, and search was made in the house of the rolls, where the treasures were laid up in Babylon.

6:2    在米底亞省亞馬他城的宮內尋得一卷，其中記著說，
And there was found at Achmetha, in the palace that is in the province of the Medes, a roll, and therein was a record thus written:

6:3    居魯士王元年，他降旨論到耶路撒冷神的殿，要建造這殿為獻祭之處，堅立殿的根基。殿高六十肘，寬六十肘，
In the first year of Cyrus the king the same Cyrus the king made a decree concerning the house of God at Jerusalem, Let the house be builded, the place where they offered sacrifices, and let the foundations thereof be strongly laid; the height thereof threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof threescore cubits;

6:4    用三層大石頭，一層新木頭，經費要出於王庫。
With three rows of great stones, and a row of new timber: and let the expenses be given out of the king's house:

6:5    並且神殿的金銀器皿，就是尼布甲尼撒從耶路撒冷的殿中掠到巴比倫的，要歸還帶到耶路撒冷的殿中，各按原處放在神的殿裡。
And also let the golden and silver vessels of the house of God, which Nebuchadnezzar took forth out of the temple which is at Jerusalem, and brought unto Babylon, be restored, and brought again unto the temple which is at Jerusalem, every one to his place, and place them in the house of God.

6:6    現在河西的總督達乃和示他波斯乃，並你們的同黨，就是住河西的亞法薩迦人，你們當遠離他們。
Now therefore, Tatnai, governor beyond the river, Shetharboznai, and your companions the Apharsachites, which are beyond the river, be ye far from thence:

6:7    不要攔阻神殿的工作，任憑猶大人的省長，和猶大人的長老，在原處建造神的這殿。
Let the work of this house of God alone; let the governor of the Jews and the elders of the Jews build this house of God in his place.

6:8    我又降旨，吩咐你們向猶大人的長老為建造神的殿當怎樣行，就是從河西的款項中，急速撥取貢銀作他們的經費，免得耽誤工作。
Moreover I make a decree what ye shall do to the elders of these Jews for the building of this house of God: that of the king's goods, even of the tribute beyond the river, forthwith expenses be given unto these men, that they be not hindered.

6:9    他們與天上的神獻燔祭所需用的公牛犢，公綿羊，綿羊羔，並所用的麥子，鹽，酒，油，都要照耶路撒冷祭司的話，每日供給他們，不得有誤。
And that which they have need of, both young bullocks, and rams, and lambs, for the burnt offerings of the God of heaven, wheat, salt, wine, and oil, according to the appointment of the priests which are at Jerusalem, let it be given them day by day without fail:

6:10    好叫他們獻馨香的祭給天上的神，又為王和王眾子的壽命祈禱。
That they may offer sacrifices of sweet savours unto the God of heaven, and pray for the life of the king, and of his sons.

6:11    我再降旨，無論誰更改這命令，必從他房屋中拆出一根樑來，把他舉起，懸在其上，又使他的房屋成為糞堆。
Also I have made a decree, that whosoever shall alter this word, let timber be pulled down from his house, and being set up, let him be hanged thereon; and let his house be made a dunghill for this.

6:12    若有王和民伸手更改這命令，拆毀這殿，願那使耶路撒冷的殿作為他名居所的神將他們滅絕。我大流士降這旨意，當速速遵行。
And the God that hath caused his name to dwell there destroy all kings and people, that shall put to their hand to alter and to destroy this house of God which is at Jerusalem. I Darius have made a decree; let it be done with speed.



6:13    於是，河西總督達乃和示他波斯乃，並他們的同黨，因大流士王所發的命令，就急速遵行。
Then Tatnai, governor on this side the river, Shetharboznai, and their companions, according to that which Darius the king had sent, so they did speedily.

6:14    猶大長老，因先知哈該，和易多的孫子撒迦利亞，所說勸勉的話，就建造這殿，凡事亨通。他們遵著以色列神的命令，和波斯王居魯士，大流士，亞達薛西的旨意，建造完畢。
And the elders of the Jews builded, and they prospered through the prophesying of Haggai the prophet and Zechariah the son of Iddo. And they builded, and finished it, according to the commandment of the God of Israel, and according to the commandment of Cyrus, and Darius, and Artaxerxes king of Persia.

6:15    大流士王第六年，亞達月初三日，這殿修成了。
And this house was finished on the third day of the month Adar, which was in the sixth year of the reign of Darius the king.

6:16    以色列的祭司和利未人，並其餘被擄歸回的人，都歡歡喜喜地行奉獻神殿的禮。
And the children of Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the rest of the children of the captivity, kept the dedication of this house of God with joy,

6:17    行奉獻神殿的禮就獻公牛一百隻，公綿羊二百隻，綿羊羔四百隻，又照以色列支派的數目獻公山羊十二隻，為以色列眾人作贖罪祭。
And offered at the dedication of this house of God an hundred bullocks, two hundred rams, four hundred lambs; and for a sin offering for all Israel, twelve he goats, according to the number of the tribes of Israel.

6:18    且派祭司和利未人按著班次在耶路撒冷事奉神，是照摩西律法書上所寫的。
And they set the priests in their divisions, and the Levites in their courses, for the service of God, which is at Jerusalem; as it is written in the book of Moses.

6:19    正月十四日，被擄歸回的人守逾越節。
And the children of the captivity kept the passover upon the fourteenth day of the first month.

6:20    原來，祭司和利未人一同自潔，無一人不潔淨。利未人為被擄歸回的眾人和他們的弟兄眾祭司，併為自己宰逾越節的羊羔。
For the priests and the Levites were purified together, all of them were pure, and killed the passover for all the children of the captivity, and for their brethren the priests, and for themselves.

6:21    從擄到之地歸回的以色列人，和一切除掉所染外邦人汙穢，歸附他們，要尋求耶和華以色列神的人都吃這羊羔，
And the children of Israel, which were come again out of captivity, and all such as had separated themselves unto them from the filthiness of the heathen of the land, to seek the LORD God of Israel, did eat,

6:22    歡歡喜喜地守除酵節七日。因為耶和華使他們歡喜，又使亞述王的心轉向他們，堅固他們的手，作以色列神殿的工程。
And kept the feast of unleavened bread seven days with joy: for the LORD had made them joyful, and turned the heart of the king of Assyria unto them, to strengthen their hands in the work of the house of God, the God of Israel.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


7:1    這事以後，波斯王亞達薛西年間，有個以斯拉，他是西萊雅的兒子，西萊雅是亞撒利雅的兒子，亞撒利雅是希勒家的兒子。
Now after these things, in the reign of Artaxerxes king of Persia, Ezra the son of Seraiah, the son of Azariah, the son of Hilkiah,

7:2    希勒家是沙龍的兒子，沙龍是撒督的兒子，撒督是亞希突的兒子，
The son of Shallum, the son of Zadok, the son of Ahitub,

7:3    亞希突是亞瑪利雅的兒子，亞瑪利雅是亞撒利雅的兒子，亞撒利雅是米拉約的兒子，
The son of Amariah, the son of Azariah, the son of Meraioth,

7:4    米拉約是西拉希雅的兒子，西拉希雅是烏西的兒子，烏西是布基的兒子，
The son of Zerahiah, the son of Uzzi, the son of Bukki,

7:5    布基是亞比書的兒子，亞比書是非尼哈的兒子，非尼哈是以利亞撒的兒子，以利亞撒是大祭司亞倫的兒子。
The son of Abishua, the son of Phinehas, the son of Eleazar, the son of Aaron the chief priest:

7:6    這以斯拉從巴比倫上來，他是敏捷的文士，通達耶和華以色列神所賜摩西的律法書。王允准他一切所求的，是因耶和華他神的手幫助他。
This Ezra went up from Babylon; and he was a ready scribe in the law of Moses, which the LORD God of Israel had given: and the king granted him all his request, according to the hand of the LORD his God upon him.

7:7    亞達薛西王第七年，以色列人，祭司，利未人，歌唱的，守門的，尼提寧，有上耶路撒冷的。
And there went up some of the children of Israel, and of the priests, and the Levites, and the singers, and the porters, and the Nethinims, unto Jerusalem, in the seventh year of Artaxerxes the king.

7:8    王第七年五月，以斯拉到了耶路撒冷。
And he came to Jerusalem in the fifth month, which was in the seventh year of the king.

7:9    正月初一日，他從巴比倫起程。因他神施恩的手幫助他，五月初一日就到了耶路撒冷。
For upon the first day of the first month began he to go up from Babylon, and on the first day of the fifth month came he to Jerusalem, according to the good hand of his God upon him.

7:10    以斯拉定志考究遵行耶和華的律法，又將律例典章教訓以色列人。
For Ezra had prepared his heart to seek the law of the LORD, and to do it, and to teach in Israel statutes and judgments.

7:11    祭司以斯拉是通達耶和華誡命，和賜以色列之律例的文士。亞達薛西王賜給他們諭旨，上面寫著說，
Now this is the copy of the letter that the king Artaxerxes gave unto Ezra the priest, the scribe, even a scribe of the words of the commandments of the LORD, and of his statutes to Israel.

7:12    諸王之王亞達薛西，達於祭司以斯拉通達天上神律法大德的文士，云云。
Artaxerxes, king of kings, unto Ezra the priest, a scribe of the law of the God of heaven, perfect peace, and at such a time.

7:13    住在我國中的以色列人，祭司，利未人，凡甘心上耶路撒冷去的，我降旨準他們與你同去。
I make a decree, that all they of the people of Israel, and of his priests and Levites, in my realm, which are minded of their own freewill to go up to Jerusalem, go with thee.

7:14    王與七個謀士既然差你去，照你手中神的律法書，察問猶大，和耶路撒冷的景況。
Forasmuch as thou art sent of the king, and of his seven counsellors, to enquire concerning Judah and Jerusalem, according to the law of thy God which is in thine hand;

7:15    又帶金銀，就是王和謀士甘心獻給住耶路撒冷，以色列神的，
And to carry the silver and gold, which the king and his counsellors have freely offered unto the God of Israel, whose habitation is in Jerusalem,

7:16    並帶你在巴比倫全省所得的金銀，和百姓，祭司樂意獻給耶路撒冷他們神殿的禮物。
And all the silver and gold that thou canst find in all the province of Babylon, with the freewill offering of the people, and of the priests, offering willingly for the house of their God which is in Jerusalem:

7:17    所以你當用這金銀，急速買公牛，公綿羊，綿羊羔，和同獻的素祭奠祭之物，獻在耶路撒冷你們神殿的壇上。
That thou mayest buy speedily with this money bullocks, rams, lambs, with their meat offerings and their drink offerings, and offer them upon the altar of the house of your God which is in Jerusalem.

7:18    剩下的金銀，你和你的弟兄看著怎樣好，就怎樣用，總要遵著你們神的旨意。
And whatsoever shall seem good to thee, and to thy brethren, to do with the rest of the silver and the gold, that do after the will of your God.

7:19    所交給你神殿中使用的器皿，你要交在耶路撒冷神面前。
The vessels also that are given thee for the service of the house of thy God, those deliver thou before the God of Jerusalem.



7:20    你神殿裡若再有需用的經費，你可以從王的府庫裡支取。
And whatsoever more shall be needful for the house of thy God, which thou shalt have occasion to bestow, bestow it out of the king's treasure house.

7:21    我亞達薛西王又降旨與河西的一切庫官，說，通達天上神律法的文士祭司以斯拉，無論向你們要什麼，你們要速速地備辦，
And I, even I Artaxerxes the king, do make a decree to all the treasurers which are beyond the river, that whatsoever Ezra the priest, the scribe of the law of the God of heaven, shall require of you, it be done speedily,

7:22    就是銀子直到一百他連得，麥子一百柯珥，酒一百吧特，油一百吧特，鹽不計其數，也要給他。
Unto an hundred talents of silver, and to an hundred measures of wheat, and to an hundred baths of wine, and to an hundred baths of oil, and salt without prescribing how much.

7:23    凡天上之神所吩咐的，當為天上神的殿詳細辦理。為何使忿怒臨到王和王眾子的國呢。
Whatsoever is commanded by the God of heaven, let it be diligently done for the house of the God of heaven: for why should there be wrath against the realm of the king and his sons?

7:24    我又曉諭你們，至於祭司，利未人，歌唱的，守門的，和尼提寧，並在神殿當差的人，不可叫他們進貢，交課，納稅。
Also we certify you, that touching any of the priests and Levites, singers, porters, Nethinims, or ministers of this house of God, it shall not be lawful to impose toll, tribute, or custom, upon them.

7:25    以斯拉阿，要照著你神賜你的智慧，將所有明白你神律法的人立為士師，審判官，治理河西的百姓，使他們教訓一切不明白神律法的人。
And thou, Ezra, after the wisdom of thy God, that is in thine hand, set magistrates and judges, which may judge all the people that are beyond the river, all such as know the laws of thy God; and teach ye them that know them not.

7:26    凡不遵行你神律法和王命令的人就當速速定他的罪，或治死，或充軍，或抄家，或囚禁。
And whosoever will not do the law of thy God, and the law of the king, let judgment be executed speedily upon him, whether it be unto death, or to banishment, or to confiscation of goods, or to imprisonment.

7:27    以斯拉說，耶和華我們列祖的神是應當稱頌的。因他使王起這心意修飾耶路撒冷耶和華的殿，
Blessed be the LORD God of our fathers, which hath put such a thing as this in the king's heart, to beautify the house of the LORD which is in Jerusalem:

7:28    又在王和謀士，並大能的軍長面前施恩於我。因耶和華我神的手幫助我，我就得以堅強，從以色列中招聚首領，與我一同上來。
And hath extended mercy unto me before the king, and his counsellors, and before all the king's mighty princes. And I was strengthened as the hand of the LORD my God was upon me, and I gathered together out of Israel chief men to go up with me.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


8:1    當亞達薛西王年間，同我從巴比倫上來的人，他們的族長和他們的家譜記在下面。
These are now the chief of their fathers, and this is the genealogy of them that went up with me from Babylon, in the reign of Artaxerxes the king.

8:2    屬非尼哈的子孫有革順，屬以他瑪的子孫有但以理，屬大衛的子孫有哈突。
Of the sons of Phinehas; Gershom: of the sons of Ithamar; Daniel: of the sons of David; Hattush.

8:3    屬巴錄的後裔，就是示迦尼的子孫有撒迦利亞，同著他，按家譜計算，男丁一百五十人。
Of the sons of Shechaniah, of the sons of Pharosh; Zechariah: and with him were reckoned by genealogy of the males an hundred and fifty.

8:4    屬巴哈摩押的子孫有西拉希雅的兒子以利約乃，同著他有男丁二百。
Of the sons of Pahathmoab; Elihoenai the son of Zerahiah, and with him two hundred males.

8:5    屬示迦尼的子孫有雅哈悉的兒子，同著他有男丁三百。
Of the sons of Shechaniah; the son of Jahaziel, and with him three hundred males.

8:6    屬亞丁的子孫有約拿單的兒子以別，同著他有男丁五十。
Of the sons also of Adin; Ebed the son of Jonathan, and with him fifty males.

8:7    屬以攔的子孫有亞他利雅的兒子耶篩亞，同著他有男丁七十。
And of the sons of Elam; Jeshaiah the son of Athaliah, and with him seventy males.

8:8    屬示法提雅的子孫有米迦勒的兒子西巴第雅，同著他有男丁八十。
And of the sons of Shephatiah; Zebadiah the son of Michael, and with him fourscore males.

8:9    屬約押的子孫有耶歇的兒子俄巴底亞，同著他有男丁二百一十八。
Of the sons of Joab; Obadiah the son of Jehiel, and with him two hundred and eighteen males.

8:10    屬示羅密的子孫有約細斐的兒子，同著他有男丁一百六十。
And of the sons of Shelomith; the son of Josiphiah, and with him an hundred and threescore males.

8:11    屬比拜的子孫有比拜的兒子撒迦利亞，同著他有男丁二十八。
And of the sons of Bebai; Zechariah the son of Bebai, and with him twenty and eight males.

8:12    屬押甲的子孫有哈加坦的兒子約哈難，同著他有男丁一百一十。
And of the sons of Azgad; Johanan the son of Hakkatan, and with him an hundred and ten males.

8:13    屬亞多尼乾的子孫，就是末尾的，他們的名字是以利法列，耶利，示瑪雅，同著他們有男丁六十。
And of the last sons of Adonikam, whose names are these, Eliphelet, Jeiel, and Shemaiah, and with them threescore males.

8:14    屬比革瓦伊的子孫有烏太和撒佈，同著他們有男丁七十。
Of the sons also of Bigvai; Uthai, and Zabbud, and with them seventy males.

8:15    我招聚這些人在流入亞哈瓦的河邊，我們在那裡住了三日。我檢視百姓和祭司，見沒有利未人在那裡，
And I gathered them together to the river that runneth to Ahava; and there abode we in tents three days: and I viewed the people, and the priests, and found there none of the sons of Levi.

8:16    就召首領以利以謝，亞列，示瑪雅，以利拿單，雅立，以利拿單，拿單，撒迦利亞，米書蘭，又召教習約雅立和以利拿單。
Then sent I for Eliezer, for Ariel, for Shemaiah, and for Elnathan, and for Jarib, and for Elnathan, and for Nathan, and for Zechariah, and for Meshullam, chief men; also for Joiarib, and for Elnathan, men of understanding.

8:17    我打發他們往迦西斐雅地方，去見那裡的首領易多，又告訴他們當向易多和他的弟兄尼提寧說什麼話，叫他們為我們神的殿帶使用的人來。
And I sent them with commandment unto Iddo the chief at the place Casiphia, and I told them what they should say unto Iddo, and to his brethren the Nethinims, at the place Casiphia, that they should bring unto us ministers for the house of our God.

8:18    蒙我們神施恩的手幫助我們，他們在以色列的曾孫，利未的孫子，抹利的後裔中帶一個通達人來。還有示利比和他的眾子與弟兄共一十八人。
And by the good hand of our God upon us they brought us a man of understanding, of the sons of Mahli, the son of Levi, the son of Israel; and Sherebiah, with his sons and his brethren, eighteen;

8:19    又有哈沙比雅，同著他有米拉利的子孫耶篩亞，並他的眾子和弟兄共二十人。
And Hashabiah, and with him Jeshaiah of the sons of Merari, his brethren and their sons, twenty;

8:20    從前大衛和眾首領派尼提寧服事利未人，現在從這尼提寧中也帶了二百二十人來，都是按名指定的。
Also of the Nethinims, whom David and the princes had appointed for the service of the Levites, two hundred and twenty Nethinims: all of them were expressed by name.

8:21    那時，我在亞哈瓦河邊宣告禁食，為要在我們神面前克苦己心，求他使我們和婦人孩子，並一切所有的，都得平坦的道路。
Then I proclaimed a fast there, at the river of Ahava, that we might afflict ourselves before our God, to seek of him a right way for us, and for our little ones, and for all our substance.

8:22    我求王撥步兵馬兵幫助我們抵擋路上的仇敵，本以為羞恥。因我曾對王說，我們神施恩的手必幫助一切尋求他的。但他的能力和忿怒，必攻擊一切離棄他的。
For I was ashamed to require of the king a band of soldiers and horsemen to help us against the enemy in the way: because we had spoken unto the king, saying, The hand of our God is upon all them for good that seek him; but his power and his wrath is against all them that forsake him.

8:23    所以我們禁食祈求我們的神，他就應允了我們。
So we fasted and besought our God for this: and he was intreated of us.

8:24    我分派祭司長十二人，就是示利比，哈沙比雅，和他們的弟兄十人，
Then I separated twelve of the chief of the priests, Sherebiah, Hashabiah, and ten of their brethren with them,

8:25    將王和謀士，軍長，並在那裡的以色列眾人為我們神殿所獻的金銀和器皿，都秤了交給他們。
And weighed unto them the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, even the offering of the house of our God, which the king, and his counsellors, and his lords, and all Israel there present, had offered:

8:26    我秤了交在他們手中的銀子有六百五十他連得。銀器重一百他連得。金子一百他連得。
I even weighed unto their hand six hundred and fifty talents of silver, and silver vessels an hundred talents, and of gold an hundred talents;

8:27    金碗二十個，重一千達利克。上等光銅的器皿兩個，寶貴如金。
Also twenty basons of gold, of a thousand drams; and two vessels of fine copper, precious as gold.

8:28    我對他們說，你們歸耶和華為聖，器皿也為聖。金銀是甘心獻給耶和華你們列祖之神的。
And I said unto them, Ye are holy unto the LORD; the vessels are holy also; and the silver and the gold are a freewill offering unto the LORD God of your fathers.

8:29    你們當警醒看守，直到你們在耶路撒冷耶和華殿的庫內，在祭司長和利未族長，並以色列的各族長面前過了秤。
Watch ye, and keep them, until ye weigh them before the chief of the priests and the Levites, and chief of the fathers of Israel, at Jerusalem, in the chambers of the house of the LORD.

8:30    於是，祭司，利未人按著分量接受金銀和器皿，要帶到耶路撒冷我們神的殿裡。
So took the priests and the Levites the weight of the silver, and the gold, and the vessels, to bring them to Jerusalem unto the house of our God.

8:31    正月十二日，我們從亞哈瓦河邊起行，要往耶路撒冷去。我們神的手保佑我們，救我們脫離仇敵和路上埋伏之人的手。
Then we departed from the river of Ahava on the twelfth day of the first month, to go unto Jerusalem: and the hand of our God was upon us, and he delivered us from the hand of the enemy, and of such as lay in wait by the way.

8:32    我們到了耶路撒冷，在那裡住了三日。
And we came to Jerusalem, and abode there three days.

8:33    第四日，在我們神的殿裡把金銀和器皿都秤了，交在祭司烏利亞的兒子米利末的手中。同著他有非尼哈的兒子以利亞撒，還有利未人耶書亞的兒子約撒拔和賓內的兒子挪亞底。
Now on the fourth day was the silver and the gold and the vessels weighed in the house of our God by the hand of Meremoth the son of Uriah the priest; and with him was Eleazar the son of Phinehas; and with them was Jozabad the son of Jeshua, and Noadiah the son of Binnui, Levites;

8:34    當時都點了數目，按著分量寫在冊上。
By number and by weight of every one: and all the weight was written at that time.

8:35    從擄到之地歸回的人向以色列的神獻燔祭，就是為以色列眾人獻公牛十二隻，公綿羊九十六隻，綿羊羔七十七隻，又獻公山羊十二隻作贖罪祭，這都是向耶和華焚獻的。
Also the children of those that had been carried away, which were come out of the captivity, offered burnt offerings unto the God of Israel, twelve bullocks for all Israel, ninety and six rams, seventy and seven lambs, twelve he goats for a sin offering: all this was a burnt offering unto the LORD.

8:36    他們將王的諭旨交給王所派的總督與河西的省長，他們就幫助百姓，又供給神殿裡所需用的。
And they delivered the king's commissions unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors on this side the river: and they furthered the people, and the house of God.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


9:1    這事做完了，眾首領來見我，說，以色列民和祭司並利未人，沒有離絕迦南人，赫人，比利洗人，耶布斯人，亞捫人，摩押人，埃及人，亞摩利人，仍效法這些國的民，行可憎的事。
Now when these things were done, the princes came to me, saying, The people of Israel, and the priests, and the Levites, have not separated themselves from the people of the lands, doing according to their abominations, even of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Perizzites, the Jebusites, the Ammonites, the Moabites, the Egyptians, and the Amorites.

9:2    因他們為自己和兒子娶了這些外邦女子為妻，以致聖潔的種類和這些國的民混雜。而且首領和官長在這事上為罪魁。
For they have taken of their daughters for themselves, and for their sons: so that the holy seed have mingled themselves with the people of those lands: yea, the hand of the princes and rulers hath been chief in this trespass.

9:3    我一聽見這事，就撕裂衣服和外袍，拔了頭髮和鬍鬚，驚懼憂悶而坐。
And when I heard this thing, I rent my garment and my mantle, and plucked off the hair of my head and of my beard, and sat down astonied.

9:4    凡為以色列神言語戰兢的，都因這被擄歸回之人所犯的罪聚集到我這裡來。我就驚懼憂悶而坐，直到獻晚祭的時候。
Then were assembled unto me every one that trembled at the words of the God of Israel, because of the transgression of those that had been carried away; and I sat astonied until the evening sacrifice.

9:5    獻晚祭的時候我起來，心中愁苦，穿著撕裂的衣袍，雙膝跪下向耶和華我的神舉手，
And at the evening sacrifice I arose up from my heaviness; and having rent my garment and my mantle, I fell upon my knees, and spread out my hands unto the LORD my God,

9:6    說，我的神阿，我抱愧蒙羞，不敢向我神仰面。因為我們的罪孽滅頂，我們的罪惡滔天。
And said, O my God, I am ashamed and blush to lift up my face to thee, my God: for our iniquities are increased over our head, and our trespass is grown up unto the heavens.

9:7    從我們列祖直到今日，我們的罪惡甚重。因我們的罪孽，我們和君王，祭司都交在外邦列王的手中，殺害，擄掠，搶奪，臉上蒙羞正如今日的光景。
Since the days of our fathers have we been in a great trespass unto this day; and for our iniquities have we, our kings, and our priests, been delivered into the hand of the kings of the lands, to the sword, to captivity, and to a spoil, and to confusion of face, as it is this day.

9:8    現在耶和華我們的神暫且施恩與我們，給我們留些逃脫的人，使我們安穩如釘子釘在他的聖所，我們的神好光照我們的眼目，使我們在受轄制之中稍微復興。
And now for a little space grace hath been shewed from the LORD our God, to leave us a remnant to escape, and to give us a nail in his holy place, that our God may lighten our eyes, and give us a little reviving in our bondage.

9:9    我們是奴僕，然而在受轄制之中，我們的神仍沒有丟棄我們，在波斯王眼前向我們施恩，叫我們復興，能重建我們神的殿，修其毀壞之處，使我們在猶大和耶路撒冷有牆垣。
For we were bondmen; yet our God hath not forsaken us in our bondage, but hath extended mercy unto us in the sight of the kings of Persia, to give us a reviving, to set up the house of our God, and to repair the desolations thereof, and to give us a wall in Judah and in Jerusalem.

9:10    我們的神阿，既是如此，我們還有什麼話可說呢。因為我們已經離棄你的命令，
And now, O our God, what shall we say after this? for we have forsaken thy commandments,

9:11    就是你藉你僕人眾先知所吩咐的說，你們要去得為業之地是汙穢之地。因列國之民的汙穢和可憎的事，叫全地從這邊直到那邊滿了汙穢。
Which thou hast commanded by thy servants the prophets, saying, The land, unto which ye go to possess it, is an unclean land with the filthiness of the people of the lands, with their abominations, which have filled it from one end to another with their uncleanness.

9:12    所以不可將你們的女兒嫁他們的兒子，也不可為你們的兒子娶他們的女兒，永不可求他們的平安和他們的利益，這樣你們就可以強盛，吃這地的美物，並遺留這地給你們的子孫永遠為業。
Now therefore give not your daughters unto their sons, neither take their daughters unto your sons, nor seek their peace or their wealth for ever: that ye may be strong, and eat the good of the land, and leave it for an inheritance to your children for ever.

9:13    神阿，我們因自己的惡行和大罪，遭遇了這一切的事，並且你刑罰我們輕於我們罪所當得的，又給我們留下這些人。
And after all that is come upon us for our evil deeds, and for our great trespass, seeing that thou our God hast punished us less than our iniquities deserve, and hast given us such deliverance as this;

9:14    我們豈可再違揹你的命令，與這行可憎之事的民結親呢。若這樣行，你豈不向我們發怒，將我們滅絕，以致沒有一個剩下逃脫的人嗎。
Should we again break thy commandments, and join in affinity with the people of these abominations? wouldest not thou be angry with us till thou hadst consumed us, so that there should be no remnant nor escaping?

9:15    耶和華以色列的神阿，因你是公義的，我們這剩下的人才得逃脫，正如今日的光景。看哪，我們在你面前有罪惡，因此無人在你面前刪立得住。
O LORD God of Israel, thou art righteous: for we remain yet escaped, as it is this day: behold, we are before thee in our trespasses: for we cannot stand before thee because of this.




舊約 -- 以斯拉記(Ezra) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


10:1    以斯拉禱告，認罪，哭泣，俯伏在神殿前的時候，有以色列中的男女孩童聚集到以斯拉那裡，成了大會，眾民無不痛哭。
Now when Ezra had prayed, and when he had confessed, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, there assembled unto him out of Israel a very great congregation of men and women and children: for the people wept very sore.

10:2    屬以攔的子孫，耶歇的兒子示迦尼對以斯拉說，我們在此地娶了外邦女子為妻，干犯了我們的神，然而以色列人還有指望。
And Shechaniah the son of Jehiel, one of the sons of Elam, answered and said unto Ezra, We have trespassed against our God, and have taken strange wives of the people of the land: yet now there is hope in Israel concerning this thing.

10:3    現在當與我們的神立約，休這一切的妻，離絕她們所生的，照著我主和那因神命令戰兢之人所議定的，按律法而行。
Now therefore let us make a covenant with our God to put away all the wives, and such as are born of them, according to the counsel of my lord, and of those that tremble at the commandment of our God; and let it be done according to the law.

10:4    你起來，這是你當辦的事，我們必幫助你，你當奮勉而行。
Arise; for this matter belongeth unto thee: we also will be with thee: be of good courage, and do it.

10:5    以斯拉便起來，使祭司長和利未人，並以色列眾人起誓說，必照這話去行。他們就起了誓。
Then arose Ezra, and made the chief priests, the Levites, and all Israel, to swear that they should do according to this word. And they sware.

10:6    以斯拉從神殿前起來，進入以利亞實的兒子約哈難的屋裡，到了那裡不吃飯，也不喝水。因為被擄歸回之人所犯的罪，心裡悲傷。
Then Ezra rose up from before the house of God, and went into the chamber of Johanan the son of Eliashib: and when he came thither, he did eat no bread, nor drink water: for he mourned because of the transgression of them that had been carried away.

10:7    他們通告猶大和耶路撒冷被擄歸回的人，叫他們在耶路撒冷聚集。
And they made proclamation throughout Judah and Jerusalem unto all the children of the captivity, that they should gather themselves together unto Jerusalem;

10:8    凡不遵首領和長老所議定，三日之內不來的，就必抄他的家，使他離開被擄歸回之人的會。
And that whosoever would not come within three days, according to the counsel of the princes and the elders, all his substance should be forfeited, and himself separated from the congregation of those that had been carried away.

10:9    於是，猶大和便雅憫眾人，三日之內都聚集在耶路撒冷。那日正是九月二十日，眾人都坐在神殿前的寬闊處。因這事，又因下大雨，就都戰兢。
Then all the men of Judah and Benjamin gathered themselves together unto Jerusalem within three days. It was the ninth month, on the twentieth day of the month; and all the people sat in the street of the house of God, trembling because of this matter, and for the great rain.

10:10    祭司以斯拉站起來，對他們說，你們有罪了。因你們娶了外邦的女子為妻，增添以色列人的罪惡。。
And Ezra the priest stood up, and said unto them, Ye have transgressed, and have taken strange wives, to increase the trespass of Israel.

10:11    現在當向耶和華你們列祖的神認罪，遵行他的旨意，離絕這些國的民和外邦的女子。
Now therefore make confession unto the LORD God of your fathers, and do his pleasure: and separate yourselves from the people of the land, and from the strange wives.

10:12    會眾都大聲回答說，我們必照著你的話行，
Then all the congregation answered and said with a loud voice, As thou hast said, so must we do.

10:13    只是百姓眾多，又逢大雨的時令，我們不能站在外頭，這也不是一兩天辦完的事，因我們在這事上犯了大罪。
But the people are many, and it is a time of much rain, and we are not able to stand without, neither is this a work of one day or two: for we are many that have transgressed in this thing.

10:14    不如為全會眾派首領辦理。凡我們城邑中娶外邦女子為妻的，當按所定的日期，同著本城的長老和士師而來，直到辦完這事，神的烈怒就轉離我們了。
Let now our rulers of all the congregation stand, and let all them which have taken strange wives in our cities come at appointed times, and with them the elders of every city, and the judges thereof, until the fierce wrath of our God for this matter be turned from us.

10:15    惟有亞撒黑的兒子約拿單，特瓦的兒子雅哈謝阻擋（或譯總辦）這事，並有米書蘭和利未人沙比太幫助他們。
Only Jonathan the son of Asahel and Jahaziah the son of Tikvah were employed about this matter: and Meshullam and Shabbethai the Levite helped them.

10:16    被擄歸回的人如此而行。祭司以斯拉和些族長按著宗族都指名見派，在十月初一日，一同在座查辦這事，
And the children of the captivity did so. And Ezra the priest, with certain chief of the fathers, after the house of their fathers, and all of them by their names, were separated, and sat down in the first day of the tenth month to examine the matter.

10:17    到正月初一日，才查清娶外邦女子的人數。
And they made an end with all the men that had taken strange wives by the first day of the first month.

10:18    在祭司中查出娶外邦女子為妻的，就是耶書亞的子孫約薩達的兒子，和他弟兄瑪西雅，以利以謝，雅立，基大利。
And among the sons of the priests there were found that had taken strange wives: namely, of the sons of Jeshua the son of Jozadak, and his brethren; Maaseiah, and Eliezer, and Jarib, and Gedaliah.

10:19    他們便應許必休他們的妻。他們因有罪，就獻群中的一隻公綿羊贖罪。
And they gave their hands that they would put away their wives; and being guilty, they offered a ram of the flock for their trespass.

10:20    音麥的子孫中，有哈拿尼，西巴第雅。
And of the sons of Immer; Hanani, and Zebadiah.

10:21    哈琳的子孫中，有瑪西雅，以利雅，示瑪雅，耶歇，烏西雅。
And of the sons of Harim; Maaseiah, and Elijah, and Shemaiah, and Jehiel, and Uzziah.

10:22    巴施戶珥的子孫中，有以利約乃，瑪西雅，以實瑪利，拿坦業，約撒拔，以利亞撒。
And of the sons of Pashur; Elioenai, Maaseiah, Ishmael, Nethaneel, Jozabad, and Elasah.

10:23    利未人中，有約撒拔，示每，基拉雅（基拉雅就是基利他）。還有毗他希雅，猶大，以利以謝。
Also of the Levites; Jozabad, and Shimei, and Kelaiah, (the same is Kelita,) Pethahiah, Judah, and Eliezer.

10:24    歌唱的人中有以利亞實。守門的人中，有沙龍，提聯，烏利。
Of the singers also; Eliashib: and of the porters; Shallum, and Telem, and Uri.

10:25    以色列人巴錄的子孫中，有拉米，耶西雅，瑪基雅，米雅民，以利亞撒，瑪基雅，比拿雅。
Moreover of Israel: of the sons of Parosh; Ramiah, and Jeziah, and Malchiah, and Miamin, and Eleazar, and Malchijah, and Benaiah.

10:26    以攔的子孫中，有瑪他尼，撒迦利亞，耶歇，押底，耶利末，以利雅。
And of the sons of Elam; Mattaniah, Zechariah, and Jehiel, and Abdi, and Jeremoth, and Eliah.

10:27    薩土的子孫中，有以利約乃，以利亞實，瑪他尼，耶利末，撒拔，亞西撒。
And of the sons of Zattu; Elioenai, Eliashib, Mattaniah, and Jeremoth, and Zabad, and Aziza.

10:28    比拜的子孫中，有約哈難，哈拿尼雅，薩拜，亞勒。
Of the sons also of Bebai; Jehohanan, Hananiah, Zabbai, and Athlai.

10:29    巴尼的子孫中，有米書蘭，瑪鹿，亞大雅，雅述，示押，耶利末。
And of the sons of Bani; Meshullam, Malluch, and Adaiah, Jashub, and Sheal, and Ramoth.

10:30    巴哈摩押的子孫中，有阿底拿，基拉，比拿雅，瑪西雅，瑪他尼，比撒列，賓內，瑪拿西。
And of the sons of Pahathmoab; Adna, and Chelal, Benaiah, Maaseiah, Mattaniah, Bezaleel, and Binnui, and Manasseh.

10:31    哈琳的子孫中，有以利以謝，伊示雅，瑪基雅，示瑪雅，西緬，
And of the sons of Harim; Eliezer, Ishijah, Malchiah, Shemaiah, Shimeon,

10:32    便雅憫，瑪鹿，示瑪利雅。
Benjamin, Malluch, and Shemariah.

10:33    哈順的子孫中，有瑪特乃，瑪達他，撒拔，以利法列，耶利買，瑪拿西，示每。
Of the sons of Hashum; Mattenai, Mattathah, Zabad, Eliphelet, Jeremai, Manasseh, and Shimei.

10:34    巴尼的子孫中，有瑪玳，暗蘭，烏益，
Of the sons of Bani; Maadai, Amram, and Uel,

10:35    比拿雅，比底雅，基祿，
Benaiah, Bedeiah, Chelluh,

10:36    瓦尼雅，米利末，以利亞實，
Vaniah, Meremoth, Eliashib,

10:37    瑪他尼，瑪特乃，雅掃，
Mattaniah, Mattenai, and Jaasau,

10:38    巴尼，賓內，示每，
And Bani, and Binnui, Shimei,

10:39    示利米雅，拿單，亞大雅，
And Shelemiah, and Nathan, and Adaiah,

10:40    瑪拿底拜，沙賽，沙賴，
Machnadebai, Shashai, Sharai,

10:41    亞薩利，示利米雅，示瑪利雅，
Azareel, and Shelemiah, Shemariah,

10:42    沙龍，亞瑪利雅，約瑟。
Shallum, Amariah, and Joseph.

10:43    尼波的子孫中，有耶利，瑪他提雅，撒拔，西比拿，雅玳，約珥，比拿雅。
Of the sons of Nebo; Jeiel, Mattithiah, Zabad, Zebina, Jadau, and Joel, Benaiah.

10:44    這些人都娶了外邦女子為妻，其中也有生了兒女的。
All these had taken strange wives: and some of them had wives by whom they had children.




