




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


1:1    哈迦利亞的兒子尼希米的言語如下。亞達薛西王二十年基斯流月，我在書珊城的宮中。
The words of Nehemiah the son of Hachaliah. And it came to pass in the month Chisleu, in the twentieth year, as I was in Shushan the palace,

1:2    那時，有我一個弟兄哈拿尼，同著幾個人從猶大來。我問他們那些被擄歸回，剩下逃脫的猶大人和耶路撒冷的光景。
That Hanani, one of my brethren, came, he and certain men of Judah; and I asked them concerning the Jews that had escaped, which were left of the captivity, and concerning Jerusalem.

1:3    他們對我說，那些被擄歸回剩下的人，在猶大省遭大難，受凌辱。並且耶路撒冷的城牆拆毀，城門被火焚燒。
And they said unto me, The remnant that are left of the captivity there in the province are in great affliction and reproach: the wall of Jerusalem also is broken down, and the gates thereof are burned with fire.

1:4    我聽見這話，就坐下哭泣，悲哀幾日。在天上的神面前禁食祈禱，說，
And it came to pass, when I heard these words, that I sat down and wept, and mourned certain days, and fasted, and prayed before the God of heaven,

1:5    耶和華天上的神，大而可畏的神阿，你向愛你，守你誡命的人守約施慈愛。
And said, I beseech thee, O LORD God of heaven, the great and terrible God, that keepeth covenant and mercy for them that love him and observe his commandments:

1:6    願你睜眼看，側耳聽，你僕人晝夜在你面前，為你眾僕人以色列民的祈禱，承認我們以色列人向你所犯的罪。我與我父家都有罪了。
Let thine ear now be attentive, and thine eyes open, that thou mayest hear the prayer of thy servant, which I pray before thee now, day and night, for the children of Israel thy servants, and confess the sins of the children of Israel, which we have sinned against thee: both I and my father's house have sinned.

1:7    我們向你所行的甚是邪惡，沒有遵守你藉著僕人，摩西所吩咐的誡命，律例，典章。
We have dealt very corruptly against thee, and have not kept the commandments, nor the statutes, nor the judgments, which thou commandedst thy servant Moses.

1:8    求你記念所吩咐你僕人摩西的話，說，你們若犯罪，我就把你們分散在萬民中。
Remember, I beseech thee, the word that thou commandedst thy servant Moses, saying, If ye transgress, I will scatter you abroad among the nations:

1:9    但你們若歸向我，謹守遵行我的誡命，你們被趕散的人雖在天涯，我也必從那裡將他們招聚回來，帶到我所選擇立為我名的居所。
But if ye turn unto me, and keep my commandments, and do them; though there were of you cast out unto the uttermost part of the heaven, yet will I gather them from thence, and will bring them unto the place that I have chosen to set my name there.

1:10    這都是你的僕人，你的百姓，就是你用大力，和大能的手所救贖的。
Now these are thy servants and thy people, whom thou hast redeemed by thy great power, and by thy strong hand.

1:11    主阿，求你側耳聽你僕人的祈禱，和喜愛敬畏你名眾僕人的祈禱，使你僕人現今亨通，在王面前蒙恩。我是作王酒政的。
O LORD, I beseech thee, let now thine ear be attentive to the prayer of thy servant, and to the prayer of thy servants, who desire to fear thy name: and prosper, I pray thee, thy servant this day, and grant him mercy in the sight of this man. For I was the king's cupbearer.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


2:1    亞達薛西王二十年尼散月，在王面前擺酒，我拿起酒來奉給王。我素來在王面前沒有愁容。
And it came to pass in the month Nisan, in the twentieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that wine was before him: and I took up the wine, and gave it unto the king. Now I had not been beforetime sad in his presence.

2:2    王對我說，你既沒有病，為什麼面帶愁容呢。這不是別的，必是你心中愁煩。於是我甚懼怕。
Wherefore the king said unto me, Why is thy countenance sad, seeing thou art not sick? this is nothing else but sorrow of heart. Then I was very sore afraid,

2:3    我對王說，願王萬歲。我列祖墳墓所在的那城荒涼，城門被火焚燒，我豈能面無愁容嗎。
And said unto the king, Let the king live for ever: why should not my countenance be sad, when the city, the place of my fathers' sepulchres, lieth waste, and the gates thereof are consumed with fire?

2:4    王問我說，你要求什麼。於是我默禱天上的神。
Then the king said unto me, For what dost thou make request? So I prayed to the God of heaven.

2:5    我對王說，僕人若在王眼前蒙恩，王若喜歡，求王差遣我往猶大，到我列祖墳墓所在的那城去，我好重新建造。
And I said unto the king, If it please the king, and if thy servant have found favour in thy sight, that thou wouldest send me unto Judah, unto the city of my fathers' sepulchres, that I may build it.

2:6    那時王后坐在王的旁邊。王問我說，你去要多少日子。幾時回來。我就定了日期。於是王喜歡差遣我去。
And the king said unto me, (the queen also sitting by him,) For how long shall thy journey be? and when wilt thou return? So it pleased the king to send me; and I set him a time.

2:7    我又對王說，王若喜歡，求王賜我詔書，通知大河西的省長準我經過，直到猶大。
Moreover I said unto the king, If it please the king, let letters be given me to the governors beyond the river, that they may convey me over till I come into Judah;

2:8    又賜詔書，通知管理王園林的亞薩，使他給我木料，做屬殿營樓之門的橫樑和城牆，與我自己房屋使用的。王就允准我，因我神施恩的手幫助我。
And a letter unto Asaph the keeper of the king's forest, that he may give me timber to make beams for the gates of the palace which appertained to the house, and for the wall of the city, and for the house that I shall enter into. And the king granted me, according to the good hand of my God upon me.

2:9    王派了軍長和馬兵護送我。我到了河西的省長那裡，將王的詔書交給他們。
Then I came to the governors beyond the river, and gave them the king's letters. Now the king had sent captains of the army and horsemen with me.

2:10    和倫人叄巴拉，併為奴的亞捫人多比雅，聽見有人來為以色列人求好處，就甚惱怒。
When Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, heard of it, it grieved them exceedingly that there was come a man to seek the welfare of the children of Israel.

2:11    我到了耶路撒冷，在那裡住了三日。
So I came to Jerusalem, and was there three days.

2:12    我夜間起來，有幾個人也一同起來，但神使我心裡要為耶路撒冷做什麼事，我並沒有告訴人。除了我騎的牲口以外，也沒有別的牲口在我那裡。
And I arose in the night, I and some few men with me; neither told I any man what my God had put in my heart to do at Jerusalem: neither was there any beast with me, save the beast that I rode upon.

2:13    當夜我出了谷門，往野狗井去（野狗或作龍），到了糞廠門，察看耶路撒冷的城牆，見城牆拆毀，城門被火焚燒。
And I went out by night by the gate of the valley, even before the dragon well, and to the dung port, and viewed the walls of Jerusalem, which were broken down, and the gates thereof were consumed with fire.

2:14    我又往前，到了泉門和王池，但所騎的牲口沒有地方過去。
Then I went on to the gate of the fountain, and to the king's pool: but there was no place for the beast that was under me to pass.

2:15    於是夜間沿溪而上，察看城牆，又轉身進入谷門，就回來了。
Then went I up in the night by the brook, and viewed the wall, and turned back, and entered by the gate of the valley, and so returned.

2:16    我往哪裡去，我做什麼事，官長都不知道。我還沒有告訴猶大平民，祭司，貴胄，官長，和其餘做工的人。
And the rulers knew not whither I went, or what I did; neither had I as yet told it to the Jews, nor to the priests, nor to the nobles, nor to the rulers, nor to the rest that did the work.

2:17    以後，我對他們說，我們所遭的難，耶路撒冷怎樣荒涼，城門被火焚燒，你們都看見了。來吧，我們重建耶路撒冷的城牆，免得再受凌辱。
Then said I unto them, Ye see the distress that we are in, how Jerusalem lieth waste, and the gates thereof are burned with fire: come, and let us build up the wall of Jerusalem, that we be no more a reproach.

2:18    我告訴他們我神施恩的手怎樣幫助我，並王對我所說的話。他們就說，我們起來建造吧。於是他們奮勇做這善工。
Then I told them of the hand of my God which was good upon me; as also the king's words that he had spoken unto me. And they said, Let us rise up and build. So they strengthened their hands for this good work.

2:19    但和倫人叄巴拉，併為奴的亞捫人多比雅，和阿拉伯人基善，聽見就嗤笑我們，藐視我們，說，你們做什麼呢。要背叛王嗎。
But when Sanballat the Horonite, and Tobiah the servant, the Ammonite, and Geshem the Arabian, heard it, they laughed us to scorn, and despised us, and said, What is this thing that ye do? will ye rebel against the king?

2:20    我回答他們說，天上的神必使我們亨通。我們作他僕人的，要起來建造。你們卻在耶路撒冷無分，無權，無紀念。
Then answered I them, and said unto them, The God of heaven, he will prosper us; therefore we his servants will arise and build: but ye have no portion, nor right, nor memorial, in Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


3:1    那時，大祭司以利亞實，和他的弟兄眾祭司，起來建立羊門，分別為聖，安立門扇。又築城牆到哈米亞樓，直到哈楠業樓，分別為聖。
Then Eliashib the high priest rose up with his brethren the priests, and they builded the sheep gate; they sanctified it, and set up the doors of it; even unto the tower of Meah they sanctified it, unto the tower of Hananeel.

3:2    其次是耶利哥人建造。其次是音利的兒子撒刻建造。
And next unto him builded the men of Jericho. And next to them builded Zaccur the son of Imri.

3:3    哈西拿的子孫建立魚門，架橫樑，安門扇，和閂鎖。
But the fish gate did the sons of Hassenaah build, who also laid the beams thereof, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.

3:4    其次是哈哥斯的孫子，烏利亞的兒子米利末修造。其次是米示薩別的孫子，比利迦的兒子米書蘭修造。其次是巴拿的兒子撒督修造。
And next unto them repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah, the son of Koz. And next unto them repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah, the son of Meshezabeel. And next unto them repaired Zadok the son of Baana.

3:5    其次是提哥亞人修造。但是他們的貴胄不用肩（肩原文作頸項）擔他們主的工作。
And next unto them the Tekoites repaired; but their nobles put not their necks to the work of their LORD.

3:6    巴西亞的兒子，耶何耶大與比所玳的兒子，米書蘭修造古門，架橫樑，安門扇和閂鎖。
Moreover the old gate repaired Jehoiada the son of Paseah, and Meshullam the son of Besodeiah; they laid the beams thereof, and set up the doors thereof, and the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.

3:7    其次是基遍人米拉提，米倫人雅頓與基遍人，並屬河西總督所管的米斯巴人修造。
And next unto them repaired Melatiah the Gibeonite, and Jadon the Meronothite, the men of Gibeon, and of Mizpah, unto the throne of the governor on this side the river.

3:8    其次是銀匠，哈海雅的兒子烏薛修造。其次是做香的哈拿尼雅修造。這些人修堅耶路撒冷，直到寬牆。
Next unto him repaired Uzziel the son of Harhaiah, of the goldsmiths. Next unto him also repaired Hananiah the son of one of the apothecaries, and they fortified Jerusalem unto the broad wall.

3:9    其次是管理耶路撒冷一半，戶珥的兒子利法雅修造。
And next unto them repaired Rephaiah the son of Hur, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem.

3:10    其次是哈路抹的兒子，耶大雅對著自己的房屋修造。其次是哈沙尼的兒子哈突修造。
And next unto them repaired Jedaiah the son of Harumaph, even over against his house. And next unto him repaired Hattush the son of Hashabniah.

3:11    哈琳的兒子瑪基雅，和巴哈摩押的兒子哈述修造一段，並修造爐樓。
Malchijah the son of Harim, and Hashub the son of Pahathmoab, repaired the other piece, and the tower of the furnaces.

3:12    其次是管理耶路撒冷那一半，哈羅黑的兒子沙龍，和他的女兒們修造。
And next unto him repaired Shallum the son of Halohesh, the ruler of the half part of Jerusalem, he and his daughters.

3:13    哈嫩和撒挪亞的居民修造谷門，立門，安門扇和閂鎖，又建築城牆一千肘，直到糞廠門。
The valley gate repaired Hanun, and the inhabitants of Zanoah; they built it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof, and a thousand cubits on the wall unto the dung gate.

3:14    管理伯哈基琳，利甲的兒子瑪基雅修造糞廠門，立門，安門扇和閂鎖。
But the dung gate repaired Malchiah the son of Rechab, the ruler of part of Bethhaccerem; he built it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof.

3:15    管理米斯巴，各荷西的兒子沙崙修造泉門，立門，蓋門頂，安門扇和閂鎖，又修造靠近王園西羅亞池的牆垣，直到那從大衛城下來的臺階。
But the gate of the fountain repaired Shallun the son of Colhozeh, the ruler of part of Mizpah; he built it, and covered it, and set up the doors thereof, the locks thereof, and the bars thereof, and the wall of the pool of Siloah by the king's garden, and unto the stairs that go down from the city of David.

3:16    其次是管理伯夙一半，押卜的兒子尼希米修造，直到大衛墳地的對面，又到挖成的池子，並勇士的房屋。
After him repaired Nehemiah the son of Azbuk, the ruler of the half part of Bethzur, unto the place over against the sepulchres of David, and to the pool that was made, and unto the house of the mighty.

3:17    其次是利未人，巴尼的兒子利巨集修造。其次是管理基伊拉一半，哈沙比雅為他所管的本境修造。
After him repaired the Levites, Rehum the son of Bani. Next unto him repaired Hashabiah, the ruler of the half part of Keilah, in his part.

3:18    其次是利未人弟兄中管理基伊拉那一半，希拿達的兒子巴瓦伊修造。
After him repaired their brethren, Bavai the son of Henadad, the ruler of the half part of Keilah.

3:19    其次是管理米斯巴，耶書亞的兒子以謝修造一段，對著武庫的上坡，城牆轉彎之處。
And next to him repaired Ezer the son of Jeshua, the ruler of Mizpah, another piece over against the going up to the armoury at the turning of the wall.

3:20    其次是薩拜的兒子，巴錄竭力修造一段，從城牆轉彎，直到大祭司以利亞實的府門。
After him Baruch the son of Zabbai earnestly repaired the other piece, from the turning of the wall unto the door of the house of Eliashib the high priest.

3:21    其次是哈哥斯的孫子，烏利亞的兒子米利末修造一段，從以利亞實的府門，直到以利亞實府的盡頭。
After him repaired Meremoth the son of Urijah the son of Koz another piece, from the door of the house of Eliashib even to the end of the house of Eliashib.

3:22    其次是住平原的祭司修造。
And after him repaired the priests, the men of the plain.

3:23    其次是便雅憫與哈述，對著自己的房屋修造。其次是亞難尼的孫子，瑪西雅的兒子，亞撒利雅在靠近自己的房屋修造。
After him repaired Benjamin and Hashub over against their house. After him repaired Azariah the son of Maaseiah the son of Ananiah by his house.

3:24    其次是希拿達的兒子，賓內修造一段，從亞撒利雅的房屋直到城牆轉彎，又到城角。
After him repaired Binnui the son of Henadad another piece, from the house of Azariah unto the turning of the wall, even unto the corner.

3:25    烏賽的兒子，巴拉修造對著城牆的轉彎，和王上宮凸出來的城樓，靠近護衛院的那一段。其次是巴錄的兒子毗大雅修造。
Palal the son of Uzai, over against the turning of the wall, and the tower which lieth out from the king's high house, that was by the court of the prison. After him Pedaiah the son of Parosh.

3:26    （尼提寧住在俄斐勒，直到朝東水門的對面，和凸出來的城樓
Moreover the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel, unto the place over against the water gate toward the east, and the tower that lieth out.

3:27    其次是提哥亞人又修一段，對著那凸出來的大樓，直到俄斐勒的牆。
After them the Tekoites repaired another piece, over against the great tower that lieth out, even unto the wall of Ophel.

3:28    從馬門往上，眾祭司各對自己的房屋修造。
From above the horse gate repaired the priests, every one over against his house.

3:29    其次是音麥的兒子，撒督對著自己的房屋修造。其次是守東門，示迦尼的兒子示瑪雅修造。
After them repaired Zadok the son of Immer over against his house. After him repaired also Shemaiah the son of Shechaniah, the keeper of the east gate.

3:30    其次是示利米雅的兒子哈拿尼雅，和薩拉的第六子哈嫩又修一段。其次是比利迦的兒子，米書蘭對著自己的房屋修造。
After him repaired Hananiah the son of Shelemiah, and Hanun the sixth son of Zalaph, another piece. After him repaired Meshullam the son of Berechiah over against his chamber.

3:31    其次是銀匠瑪基雅修造到尼提寧，和商人的房屋，對著哈米弗甲門，直到城的角樓。
After him repaired Malchiah the goldsmith's son unto the place of the Nethinims, and of the merchants, over against the gate Miphkad, and to the going up of the corner.

3:32    銀匠與商人在城的角樓，和羊門中間修造。
And between the going up of the corner unto the sheep gate repaired the goldsmiths and the merchants.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


4:1    叄巴拉聽見我們修造城牆就發怒，大大惱恨，嗤笑猶大人。
But it came to pass, that when Sanballat heard that we builded the wall, he was wroth, and took great indignation, and mocked the Jews.

4:2    對他弟兄和撒瑪利亞的軍兵說，這些軟弱的猶大人做什麼呢。要保護自己嗎。要獻祭嗎。要一日成功嗎。要從土堆裡拿出火燒的石頭再立牆嗎。
And he spake before his brethren and the army of Samaria, and said, What do these feeble Jews? will they fortify themselves? will they sacrifice? will they make an end in a day? will they revive the stones out of the heaps of the rubbish which are burned?

4:3    亞捫人多比雅站在旁邊，說，他們所修造的石牆，就是狐狸上去也必？？倒。
Now Tobiah the Ammonite was by him, and he said, Even that which they build, if a fox go up, he shall even break down their stone wall.

4:4    我們的神阿，求你垂聽，因為我們被藐視。求你使他們的毀謗歸於他們的頭上，使他們在擄到之地作為掠物。
Hear, O our God; for we are despised: and turn their reproach upon their own head, and give them for a prey in the land of captivity:

4:5    不要遮掩他們的罪孽，不要使他們的罪惡從你面前塗抹，因為他們在修造的人眼前惹動你的怒氣。
And cover not their iniquity, and let not their sin be blotted out from before thee: for they have provoked thee to anger before the builders.

4:6    這樣，我們修造城牆，城牆就都連絡，高至一半，因為百姓專心做工。
So built we the wall; and all the wall was joined together unto the half thereof: for the people had a mind to work.

4:7    叄巴拉，多比雅，阿拉伯人，亞捫人，亞實突人聽見修造耶路撒冷城牆，著手進行堵塞破裂的地方，就甚發怒。
But it came to pass, that when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and the Arabians, and the Ammonites, and the Ashdodites, heard that the walls of Jerusalem were made up, and that the breaches began to be stopped, then they were very wroth,

4:8    大家同謀要來攻擊耶路撒冷，使城內擾亂。
And conspired all of them together to come and to fight against Jerusalem, and to hinder it.

4:9    然而，我們禱告我們的神，又因他們的緣故，就派人看守，晝夜防備。
Nevertheless we made our prayer unto our God, and set a watch against them day and night, because of them.

4:10    猶大人說，灰土尚多，扛抬的人力氣已經衰敗，所以我們不能建造城牆。
And Judah said, The strength of the bearers of burdens is decayed, and there is much rubbish; so that we are not able to build the wall.

4:11    我們的敵人且說，趁他們不知，不見，我們進入他們中間，殺他們，使工作止住。
And our adversaries said, They shall not know, neither see, till we come in the midst among them, and slay them, and cause the work to cease.

4:12    那靠近敵人居住的猶大人，十次從各處來見我們，說，你們必要回到我們那裡。
And it came to pass, that when the Jews which dwelt by them came, they said unto us ten times, From all places whence ye shall return unto us they will be upon you.

4:13    囂以我使百姓各按宗族拿刀，拿槍，拿弓站在城牆後邊低窪的空處。
Therefore set I in the lower places behind the wall, and on the higher places, I even set the people after their families with their swords, their spears, and their bows.

4:14    我察看了，就起來對貴胄，官長，和其餘的人說，不要怕他們。當記念主是大而可畏的。你們要為弟兄，兒女，妻子，家產爭戰。
And I looked, and rose up, and said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, Be not ye afraid of them: remember the LORD, which is great and terrible, and fight for your brethren, your sons, and your daughters, your wives, and your houses.

4:15    仇敵聽見我們知道他們的心意，見神也破壞他們的計謀，就不來了。我們都回到城牆那裡，各做各的工。
And it came to pass, when our enemies heard that it was known unto us, and God had brought their counsel to nought, that we returned all of us to the wall, every one unto his work.

4:16    從那日起，我的僕人一半做工，一半拿槍，拿盾牌，拿弓，穿（穿或作拿）鎧甲，官長都站在猶大眾人的後邊。
And it came to pass from that time forth, that the half of my servants wrought in the work, and the other half of them held both the spears, the shields, and the bows, and the habergeons; and the rulers were behind all the house of Judah.

4:17    修造城牆的，扛抬材料的，都一手做工一手拿兵器。
They which builded on the wall, and they that bare burdens, with those that laded, every one with one of his hands wrought in the work, and with the other hand held a weapon.

4:18    修造的人都腰間佩刀修造，吹角的人在我旁邊。
For the builders, every one had his sword girded by his side, and so builded. And he that sounded the trumpet was by me.

4:19    我對貴胄，官長，和其餘的人說，這工程浩大，我們在城牆上相離甚遠。
And I said unto the nobles, and to the rulers, and to the rest of the people, The work is great and large, and we are separated upon the wall, one far from another.

4:20    你們聽見角聲在哪裡，就聚集到我們那裡去。我們的神必為我們爭戰。
In what place therefore ye hear the sound of the trumpet, resort ye thither unto us: our God shall fight for us.

4:21    於是，我們做工，一半拿兵器，從天亮直到星宿出現的時候。
So we laboured in the work: and half of them held the spears from the rising of the morning till the stars appeared.

4:22    那時，我又對百姓說，各人和他的僕人，當在耶路撒冷住宿，好在夜間保守我們，白晝做工。
Likewise at the same time said I unto the people, Let every one with his servant lodge within Jerusalem, that in the night they may be a guard to us, and labour on the day.

4:23    這樣，我和弟兄僕人，並跟從我的護兵都不脫衣服，出去打水也帶兵器。
So neither I, nor my brethren, nor my servants, nor the men of the guard which followed me, none of us put off our clothes, saving that every one put them off for washing.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


5:1    百姓和他們的妻大大呼號，埋怨他們的弟兄猶大人。
And there was a great cry of the people and of their wives against their brethren the Jews.

5:2    有的說，我們和兒女人口眾多，要去得糧食度命。
For there were that said, We, our sons, and our daughters, are many: therefore we take up corn for them, that we may eat, and live.

5:3    有的說，我們典了田地，葡萄園，房屋，得糧食充飢。
Some also there were that said, We have mortgaged our lands, vineyards, and houses, that we might buy corn, because of the dearth.

5:4    有的說，我們已經指著田地，葡萄園，借了錢給王納稅。
There were also that said, We have borrowed money for the king's tribute, and that upon our lands and vineyards.

5:5    我們的身體與我們弟兄的身體一樣。我們的兒女與他們的兒女一般。現在我們將要使兒女作人的僕婢，我們的女兒已有為婢的。我們並無力拯救，因為我們的田地，葡萄園已經歸了別人。
Yet now our flesh is as the flesh of our brethren, our children as their children: and, lo, we bring into bondage our sons and our daughters to be servants, and some of our daughters are brought unto bondage already: neither is it in our power to redeem them; for other men have our lands and vineyards.

5:6    我聽見他們呼號說這些話，便甚發怒。
And I was very angry when I heard their cry and these words.

5:7    我心裡籌劃，就斥責貴胄和官長說，你們各人向弟兄取利。於是我招聚大會攻擊他們。
Then I consulted with myself, and I rebuked the nobles, and the rulers, and said unto them, Ye exact usury, every one of his brother. And I set a great assembly against them.

5:8    我對他們說，我們盡力贖回我們弟兄，就是賣與外邦的猶大人。你們還要賣弟兄，我們贖回來嗎。他們就靜默不語，無話可答。
And I said unto them, We after our ability have redeemed our brethren the Jews, which were sold unto the heathen; and will ye even sell your brethren? or shall they be sold unto us? Then held they their peace, and found nothing to answer.

5:9    我又說，你們所行的不善。你們行事不當敬畏我們的神嗎。不然，難免我們的仇敵外邦人毀謗我們。
Also I said, It is not good that ye do: ought ye not to walk in the fear of our God because of the reproach of the heathen our enemies?

5:10    我和我的弟兄與僕人，也將銀錢糧食借給百姓。我們大家都當免去利息。
I likewise, and my brethren, and my servants, might exact of them money and corn: I pray you, let us leave off this usury.

5:11    如今我勸你們將他們的田地，葡萄園，橄欖園，房屋，並向他們所取的銀錢，糧食，新酒，和油，百分之一的利息都歸還他們。
Restore, I pray you, to them, even this day, their lands, their vineyards, their oliveyards, and their houses, also the hundredth part of the money, and of the corn, the wine, and the oil, that ye exact of them.

5:12    眾人說，我們必歸還，不再向他們索要，必照你的話行。我就召了祭司來，叫眾人起誓，必照著所應許的而行。
Then said they, We will restore them, and will require nothing of them; so will we do as thou sayest. Then I called the priests, and took an oath of them, that they should do according to this promise.

5:13    我也抖著胸前的衣襟，說，凡不成就這應許的，願神照樣抖他離開家產和他勞碌得來的，直到抖空了。會眾都說，阿們。又讚美耶和華。百姓就照著所應許的去行。
Also I shook my lap, and said, So God shake out every man from his house, and from his labour, that performeth not this promise, even thus be he shaken out, and emptied. And all the congregation said, Amen, and praised the LORD. And the people did according to this promise.

5:14    自從我奉派作猶大地的省長，就是從亞達薛西王二十年，直到三十二年，共十二年之久，我與我弟兄都沒有吃省長的俸祿。
Moreover from the time that I was appointed to be their governor in the land of Judah, from the twentieth year even unto the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes the king, that is, twelve years, I and my brethren have not eaten the bread of the governor.

5:15    在我以前的省長加重百姓的擔子，每日索要糧食和酒，並銀子四十舍客勒，就是他們的僕人也轄制百姓。但我因敬畏神不這樣行。
But the former governors that had been before me were chargeable unto the people, and had taken of them bread and wine, beside forty shekels of silver; yea, even their servants bare rule over the people: but so did not I, because of the fear of God.

5:16    並且我恆心修造城牆，並沒有置買田地。我的僕人也都聚集在那裡做工。
Yea, also I continued in the work of this wall, neither bought we any land: and all my servants were gathered thither unto the work.

5:17    除了從四圍外邦中來的猶大人以外，有猶大平民和官長一百五十人在我席上吃飯。
Moreover there were at my table an hundred and fifty of the Jews and rulers, beside those that came unto us from among the heathen that are about us.

5:18    每日預備一隻公牛，六隻肥羊，又預備些飛禽。每十日一次，多預備各樣的酒。雖然如此，我並不要省長的俸祿，因為百姓服役甚重。
Now that which was prepared for me daily was one ox and six choice sheep; also fowls were prepared for me, and once in ten days store of all sorts of wine: yet for all this required not I the bread of the governor, because the bondage was heavy upon this people.

5:19    我的神阿，求你記念我為這百姓所行的一切事，施恩與我。
Think upon me, my God, for good, according to all that I have done for this people.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


6:1    叄巴拉，多比雅，阿拉伯人基善，和我們其餘的仇敵，聽見我已經修完了城牆，其中沒有破裂之處（那時我還沒有安門扇）。
Now it came to pass, when Sanballat, and Tobiah, and Geshem the Arabian, and the rest of our enemies, heard that I had builded the wall, and that there was no breach left therein; (though at that time I had not set up the doors upon the gates;)

6:2    叄巴拉和基善就打發人來見我，說，請你來，我們在阿挪平原的一個村莊相會。他們卻想害我。
That Sanballat and Geshem sent unto me, saying, Come, let us meet together in some one of the villages in the plain of Ono. But they thought to do me mischief.

6:3    於是我差遣人去見他們，說，我現在辦理大工，不能下去。焉能停工下去見你們呢。
And I sent messengers unto them, saying, I am doing a great work, so that I cannot come down: why should the work cease, whilst I leave it, and come down to you?

6:4    他們這樣四次打發人來見我，我都如此回答他們。
Yet they sent unto me four times after this sort; and I answered them after the same manner.

6:5    叄巴拉第五次打發僕人來見我，手裡拿著未封的信，
Then sent Sanballat his servant unto me in like manner the fifth time with an open letter in his hand;

6:6    信上寫著說，外邦人中有風聲，迦施慕（就是基善見二章十九節）也說，你和猶大人謀反，修造城牆，你要作他們的王。
Wherein was written, It is reported among the heathen, and Gashmu saith it, that thou and the Jews think to rebel: for which cause thou buildest the wall, that thou mayest be their king, according to these words.

6:7    你又派先知在耶路撒冷指著你宣講，說在猶大有王。現在這話必傳與王知。所以請你來，與我們彼此商議。
And thou hast also appointed prophets to preach of thee at Jerusalem, saying, There is a king in Judah: and now shall it be reported to the king according to these words. Come now therefore, and let us take counsel together.

6:8    我就差遣人去見他，說，你所說的這事，一概沒有，是你心裡捏造的。
Then I sent unto him, saying, There are no such things done as thou sayest, but thou feignest them out of thine own heart.

6:9    他們都要使我們懼怕，意思說，他們的手必軟弱，以致工作不能成就。神阿，求你堅固我的手。
For they all made us afraid, saying, Their hands shall be weakened from the work, that it be not done. Now therefore, O God, strengthen my hands.

6:10    我到了米希大別的孫子，第來雅的兒子示瑪雅家裡。那時，他閉門不出。他說，我們不如在神的殿裡會面，將殿門關鎖。因為他們要來殺你，是夜裡來殺你。
Afterward I came unto the house of Shemaiah the son of Delaiah the son of Mehetabeel, who was shut up; and he said, Let us meet together in the house of God, within the temple, and let us shut the doors of the temple: for they will come to slay thee; yea, in the night will they come to slay thee.

6:11    我說，像我這樣的人豈要逃跑呢。像我這樣的人豈能進入殿裡保全生命呢。我不進去。
And I said, Should such a man as I flee? and who is there, that, being as I am, would go into the temple to save his life? I will not go in.

6:12    我看明神沒有差遣他，是他自己說這話攻擊我，是多比雅和叄巴拉賄買了他。
And, lo, I perceived that God had not sent him; but that he pronounced this prophecy against me: for Tobiah and Sanballat had hired him.

6:13    賄買他的緣故，是要叫我懼怕，依從他犯罪，他們好傳揚惡言毀謗我。
Therefore was he hired, that I should be afraid, and do so, and sin, and that they might have matter for an evil report, that they might reproach me.

6:14    我的神阿，多比雅，叄巴拉，女先知挪亞底，和其餘的先知要叫我懼怕，求你記念他們所行的這些事。
My God, think thou upon Tobiah and Sanballat according to these their works, and on the prophetess Noadiah, and the rest of the prophets, that would have put me in fear.

6:15    以祿月二十五日，城牆修完了，共修了五十二天。
So the wall was finished in the twenty and fifth day of the month Elul, in fifty and two days.

6:16    我們一切仇敵，四圍的外邦人聽見了便懼怕，愁眉不展。因為見這工作完成是出乎我們的神。
And it came to pass, that when all our enemies heard thereof, and all the heathen that were about us saw these things, they were much cast down in their own eyes: for they perceived that this work was wrought of our God.

6:17    在那些日子，猶大的貴胄屢次寄信與多比雅，多比雅也來信與他們。
Moreover in those days the nobles of Judah sent many letters unto Tobiah, and the letters of Tobiah came unto them.

6:18    在猶大有許多人與多比雅結盟。因他是亞拉的兒子，示迦尼的女婿，並且他的兒子，約哈難娶了比利迦兒子，米書蘭的女兒為妻。
For there were many in Judah sworn unto him, because he was the son in law of Shechaniah the son of Arah; and his son Johanan had taken the daughter of Meshullam the son of Berechiah.

6:19    他們常在我面前說多比雅的善行，也將我的話傳與他。多比雅又常寄信來，要叫我懼怕。
Also they reported his good deeds before me, and uttered my words to him. And Tobiah sent letters to put me in fear.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


7:1    城牆修完，我安了門扇，守門的，歌唱的，和利未人都已派定。
Now it came to pass, when the wall was built, and I had set up the doors, and the porters and the singers and the Levites were appointed,

7:2    我就派我的弟兄哈拿尼，和營樓的宰官哈拿尼雅，管理耶路撒冷。因為哈拿尼雅是忠信的，又敬畏神過於眾人。
That I gave my brother Hanani, and Hananiah the ruler of the palace, charge over Jerusalem: for he was a faithful man, and feared God above many.

7:3    我吩咐他們說，等到太陽上升才可開耶路撒冷的城門。人尚看守的時候就要關門上閂。也當派耶路撒冷的居民，各按班次看守自己房屋對面之處。
And I said unto them, Let not the gates of Jerusalem be opened until the sun be hot; and while they stand by, let them shut the doors, and bar them: and appoint watches of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, every one in his watch, and every one to be over against his house.

7:4    城是廣大，其中的民卻稀少，房屋還沒有建造。
Now the city was large and great: but the people were few therein, and the houses were not builded.

7:5    我的神感動我心，招聚貴胄，官長，和百姓，要照家譜計算。我找著第一次上來之人的家譜，其上寫著。
And my God put into mine heart to gather together the nobles, and the rulers, and the people, that they might be reckoned by genealogy. And I found a register of the genealogy of them which came up at the first, and found written therein,

7:6    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒，從前擄去猶大省的人，現在他們的子孫從被擄到之地回耶路撒冷和猶大，各歸本城。
These are the children of the province, that went up out of the captivity, of those that had been carried away, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away, and came again to Jerusalem and to Judah, every one unto his city;

7:7    他們是同著所羅巴伯，耶書亞，尼希米，亞撒利雅，拉米，拿哈瑪尼，末底改，必珊，米斯毗列，比革瓦伊，尼巨集，巴拿回來的。
Who came with Zerubbabel, Jeshua, Nehemiah, Azariah, Raamiah, Nahamani, Mordecai, Bilshan, Mispereth, Bigvai, Nehum, Baanah. The number, I say, of the men of the people of Israel was this;

7:8    以色列人民的數目記在下面。巴錄的子孫二千一百七十二名。
The children of Parosh, two thousand an hundred seventy and two.

7:9    示法提雅的子孫三百七十二名。
The children of Shephatiah, three hundred seventy and two.

7:10    亞拉的子孫六百五十二名。
The children of Arah, six hundred fifty and two.

7:11    巴哈摩押的後裔，就是耶書亞和約押的子孫二千八百一十八名。
The children of Pahathmoab, of the children of Jeshua and Joab, two thousand and eight hundred and eighteen.

7:12    以攔的子孫一千二百五十四名。
The children of Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

7:13    薩土的子孫八百四十五名。
The children of Zattu, eight hundred forty and five.

7:14    薩改的子孫七百六十名。
The children of Zaccai, seven hundred and threescore.

7:15    賓內的子孫六百四十八名。
The children of Binnui, six hundred forty and eight.

7:16    比拜的子孫六百二十八名。
The children of Bebai, six hundred twenty and eight.

7:17    押甲的子孫二千三百二十二名。
The children of Azgad, two thousand three hundred twenty and two.

7:18    亞多尼乾的子孫六百六十七名。
The children of Adonikam, six hundred threescore and seven.

7:19    比革瓦伊的子孫二千零六十七名。
The children of Bigvai, two thousand threescore and seven.

7:20    亞丁的子孫六百五十五名。
The children of Adin, six hundred fifty and five.

7:21    亞特的後裔，就是希西家的子孫九十八名。
The children of Ater of Hezekiah, ninety and eight.

7:22    哈順的子孫三百二十八名。
The children of Hashum, three hundred twenty and eight.

7:23    比賽的子孫三百二十四名。
The children of Bezai, three hundred twenty and four.

7:24    哈拉的子孫一百一十二名。
The children of Hariph, an hundred and twelve.

7:25    基遍人九十五名。
The children of Gibeon, ninety and five.

7:26    伯利恆人和尼陀法人共一百八十八名。
The men of Bethlehem and Netophah, an hundred fourscore and eight.

7:27    亞拿突人一百二十八名。
The men of Anathoth, an hundred twenty and eight.

7:28    伯亞斯瑪弗人四十二名。
The men of Bethazmaveth, forty and two.

7:29    基列耶琳人，基非拉人，比錄人共七百四十三名。
The men of Kirjathjearim, Chephirah, and Beeroth, seven hundred forty and three.

7:30    拉瑪人和迦巴人共六百二十一名。
The men of Ramah and Gaba, six hundred twenty and one.

7:31    默瑪人一百二十二名。
The men of Michmas, an hundred and twenty and two.

7:32    伯特利人和艾人共一百二十三名。
The men of Bethel and Ai, an hundred twenty and three.

7:33    別的尼波人五十二名。
The men of the other Nebo, fifty and two.

7:34    別的以攔子孫一千二百五十四名。
The children of the other Elam, a thousand two hundred fifty and four.

7:35    哈琳的子孫三百二十名。
The children of Harim, three hundred and twenty.

7:36    耶利哥人三百四十五名。
The children of Jericho, three hundred forty and five.

7:37    羅德人，哈第人，阿挪人共七百二十一名。
The children of Lod, Hadid, and Ono, seven hundred twenty and one.

7:38    西拿人三千九百三十名。
The children of Senaah, three thousand nine hundred and thirty.

7:39    祭司。耶書亞家，耶大雅的子孫九百七十三名。
The priests: the children of Jedaiah, of the house of Jeshua, nine hundred seventy and three.

7:40    音麥的子孫一千零五十二名。
The children of Immer, a thousand fifty and two.

7:41    巴施戶珥的子孫一千二百四十七名。
The children of Pashur, a thousand two hundred forty and seven.

7:42    哈琳的子孫一千零一十七名。
The children of Harim, a thousand and seventeen.

7:43    利未人。何達威的後裔，就是耶書亞和甲篾的子孫七十四名。
The Levites: the children of Jeshua, of Kadmiel, and of the children of Hodevah, seventy and four.

7:44    歌唱的。亞薩的子孫一百四十八名。
The singers: the children of Asaph, an hundred forty and eight.

7:45    守門的。沙龍的子孫，亞特的子孫，達們的子孫，亞谷的子孫，哈底大的子孫，朔拜的子孫，共一百三十八名。
The porters: the children of Shallum, the children of Ater, the children of Talmon, the children of Akkub, the children of Hatita, the children of Shobai, an hundred thirty and eight.

7:46    尼提寧（就是殿役）。西哈的子孫，哈蘇巴的子孫，答巴俄的子孫，
The Nethinims: the children of Ziha, the children of Hashupha, the children of Tabbaoth,

7:47    基綠的子孫，西亞的子孫，巴頓的子孫，
The children of Keros, the children of Sia, the children of Padon,

7:48    利巴拿的子孫，哈迦巴的子孫，薩買的子孫，
The children of Lebana, the children of Hagaba, the children of Shalmai,

7:49    哈難的子孫，吉德的子孫，迦哈的子孫，
The children of Hanan, the children of Giddel, the children of Gahar,

7:50    利亞雅的子孫，利汛的子孫，尼哥大的子孫，
The children of Reaiah, the children of Rezin, the children of Nekoda,

7:51    迦散的子孫，烏撒的子孫，巴西亞的子孫，
The children of Gazzam, the children of Uzza, the children of Phaseah,

7:52    比賽的子孫，米烏寧的子孫，尼普心的子孫，
The children of Besai, the children of Meunim, the children of Nephishesim,

7:53    巴卜的子孫，哈古巴的子孫，哈忽的子孫，
The children of Bakbuk, the children of Hakupha, the children of Harhur,

7:54    巴洗律的子孫，米希大的子孫，哈沙的子孫，
The children of Bazlith, the children of Mehida, the children of Harsha,

7:55    巴柯的子孫，西西拉的子孫，答瑪的子孫，
The children of Barkos, the children of Sisera, the children of Tamah,

7:56    尼細亞的子孫，哈提法的子孫。
The children of Neziah, the children of Hatipha.

7:57    所羅門僕人的後裔，就是瑣太的子孫，瑣斐列的子孫，比路大的子孫，
The children of Solomon's servants: the children of Sotai, the children of Sophereth, the children of Perida,

7:58    雅拉的子孫，達昆的子孫，吉德的子孫，
The children of Jaala, the children of Darkon, the children of Giddel,

7:59    示法提雅的子孫，哈替的子孫，玻黑列哈斯巴音的子孫，亞們的子孫。
The children of Shephatiah, the children of Hattil, the children of Pochereth of Zebaim, the children of Amon.

7:60    尼提寧和所羅門僕人的後裔共三百九十二名。
All the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants, were three hundred ninety and two.

7:61    從特米拉，特哈薩，基綠，亞頓，音麥上來的，不能指明他們的宗族譜系是以色列人不是。
And these were they which went up also from Telmelah, Telharesha, Cherub, Addon, and Immer: but they could not shew their father's house, nor their seed, whether they were of Israel.

7:62    他們是第萊雅的子孫，多比雅的子孫，尼哥大的子孫，共六百四十二名。
The children of Delaiah, the children of Tobiah, the children of Nekoda, six hundred forty and two.

7:63    祭司中，哈巴雅的子孫，哈哥斯的子孫，巴西萊的子孫。因為他們的先祖娶了基列人，巴西萊的女兒為妻，所以起名叫巴西萊。
And of the priests: the children of Habaiah, the children of Koz, the children of Barzillai, which took one of the daughters of Barzillai the Gileadite to wife, and was called after their name.

7:64    這三家的人，在族譜之中尋查自己的譜系，卻尋不著，因此算為不潔，不準供祭司的職任。
These sought their register among those that were reckoned by genealogy, but it was not found: therefore were they, as polluted, put from the priesthood.

7:65    省長對他們說，不可吃至聖的物，直到有用烏陵和土明，決疑的祭司興起來。
And the Tirshatha said unto them, that they should not eat of the most holy things, till there stood up a priest with Urim and Thummim.

7:66    會眾共有四萬二千三百六十名。
The whole congregation together was forty and two thousand three hundred and threescore,

7:67    此外，還有他們的僕婢七千三百三十七名，又有歌唱的男女二百四十五名。
Beside their manservants and their maidservants, of whom there were seven thousand three hundred thirty and seven: and they had two hundred forty and five singing men and singing women.

7:68    他們有馬七百三十六匹，騾子二百四十五匹，
Their horses, seven hundred thirty and six: their mules, two hundred forty and five:

7:69    駱駝四百三十五隻，驢六千七百二十匹。
Their camels, four hundred thirty and five: six thousand seven hundred and twenty asses.

7:70    有些族長為工程捐助。省長捐入庫中的金子一千達利克，碗五十個，祭司的禮服五百三十件。
And some of the chief of the fathers gave unto the work. The Tirshatha gave to the treasure a thousand drams of gold, fifty basons, five hundred and thirty priests' garments.

7:71    又有族長捐入工程庫的金子，二萬達利克，銀子二千二百彌拿。
And some of the chief of the fathers gave to the treasure of the work twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand and two hundred pound of silver.

7:72    其餘百姓所捐的金子，二萬達利克，銀子二千彌拿，祭司的禮服六十七件。
And that which the rest of the people gave was twenty thousand drams of gold, and two thousand pound of silver, and threescore and seven priests' garments.

7:73    於是祭司，利未人，守門的，歌唱的，民中的一些人，尼提寧，並以色列眾人，各住在自己的城裡。
So the priests, and the Levites, and the porters, and the singers, and some of the people, and the Nethinims, and all Israel, dwelt in their cities; and when the seventh month came, the children of Israel were in their cities.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


8:1    到了七月，以色列人住在自己的城裡。那時，他們如同一人聚集在水門前的寬闊處，請文士以斯拉，將耶和華藉摩西傳給以色列人的律法書帶來。
And all the people gathered themselves together as one man into the street that was before the water gate; and they spake unto Ezra the scribe to bring the book of the law of Moses, which the LORD had commanded to Israel.

8:2    七月初一日，祭司以斯拉將律法書，帶到聽了能明白的男女會眾面前。
And Ezra the priest brought the law before the congregation both of men and women, and all that could hear with understanding, upon the first day of the seventh month.

8:3    在水門前的寬闊處，從清早到晌午，在眾男女，一切聽了能明白的人面前讀這律法書。眾民側耳而聽。
And he read therein before the street that was before the water gate from the morning until midday, before the men and the women, and those that could understand; and the ears of all the people were attentive unto the book of the law.

8:4    文士以斯拉站在為這事特備的木臺上。瑪他提雅，示瑪，亞奈雅，烏利亞，希勒家，和瑪西雅站在他的右邊。毗大雅，米沙利，瑪基雅，哈順，哈拔大拿，撒迦利亞，和米書蘭站在他的左邊。
And Ezra the scribe stood upon a pulpit of wood, which they had made for the purpose; and beside him stood Mattithiah, and Shema, and Anaiah, and Urijah, and Hilkiah, and Maaseiah, on his right hand; and on his left hand, Pedaiah, and Mishael, and Malchiah, and Hashum, and Hashbadana, Zechariah, and Meshullam.

8:5    以斯拉站在眾民以上，在眾民眼前晒開這書。他一展開，眾民就都站起來。
And Ezra opened the book in the sight of all the people; (for he was above all the people;) and when he opened it, all the people stood up:

8:6    以斯拉稱頌耶和華至大的神。眾民都舉手應聲說，阿們，阿們，就低頭，面伏於地，敬拜耶和華。
And Ezra blessed the LORD, the great God. And all the people answered, Amen, Amen, with lifting up their hands: and they bowed their heads, and worshipped the LORD with their faces to the ground.

8:7    耶書亞，巴尼，示利比，雅憫，亞谷，沙比太，荷第雅，瑪西雅，基利他，亞撒利雅，約撒拔，哈難，毗萊雅，和利未人使百姓明白律法。百姓都站在自己的地方。
Also Jeshua, and Bani, and Sherebiah, Jamin, Akkub, Shabbethai, Hodijah, Maaseiah, Kelita, Azariah, Jozabad, Hanan, Pelaiah, and the Levites, caused the people to understand the law: and the people stood in their place.

8:8    他們清清楚楚地念神的律法書，講明意思，使百姓明白所念的。
So they read in the book in the law of God distinctly, and gave the sense, and caused them to understand the reading.

8:9    省長尼希米和作祭司的文士以斯拉，並教訓百姓的利未人，對眾民說，今日是耶和華你們神的聖日，不要悲哀哭泣。這是因為眾民聽見律法書上的話都哭了。
And Nehemiah, which is the Tirshatha, and Ezra the priest the scribe, and the Levites that taught the people, said unto all the people, This day is holy unto the LORD your God; mourn not, nor weep. For all the people wept, when they heard the words of the law.

8:10    又對他們說，你們去吃肥美的，喝甘甜的，有不能豫備的，就分給他。因為今日是我們主的聖日。你們不要憂愁，因靠耶和華而得的喜樂是你們的力量。
Then he said unto them, Go your way, eat the fat, and drink the sweet, and send portions unto them for whom nothing is prepared: for this day is holy unto our LORD: neither be ye sorry; for the joy of the LORD is your strength.

8:11    於是利未人使眾民靜默，說，今日是聖日。不要作聲，也不要憂愁。
So the Levites stilled all the people, saying, Hold your peace, for the day is holy; neither be ye grieved.

8:12    眾民都去吃喝，也分給人，大大快樂，因為他們明白所教訓他們的話。
And all the people went their way to eat, and to drink, and to send portions, and to make great mirth, because they had understood the words that were declared unto them.

8:13    次日，眾民的族長，祭司，和利未人都聚集到文士以斯拉那裡，要留心聽律法上的話。
And on the second day were gathered together the chief of the fathers of all the people, the priests, and the Levites, unto Ezra the scribe, even to understand the words of the law.

8:14    他們見律法上寫著，耶和華藉摩西吩咐以色列人要在七月節住棚，
And they found written in the law which the LORD had commanded by Moses, that the children of Israel should dwell in booths in the feast of the seventh month:

8:15    並要在各城和耶路撒冷宣傳報告說，你們當上山，將橄欖樹，野橄欖樹，番石榴樹，棕樹，和各樣茂密樹的枝子取來，照著所寫的搭棚。
And that they should publish and proclaim in all their cities, and in Jerusalem, saying, Go forth unto the mount, and fetch olive branches, and pine branches, and myrtle branches, and palm branches, and branches of thick trees, to make booths, as it is written.

8:16    於是百姓出去，取了樹枝來，各人在自己的房頂上，或院內，或神殿的院內，或水門的寬闊處，或以法蓮門的寬闊處搭棚。
So the people went forth, and brought them, and made themselves booths, every one upon the roof of his house, and in their courts, and in the courts of the house of God, and in the street of the water gate, and in the street of the gate of Ephraim.

8:17    從擄到之地歸回的全會眾就搭棚，住在棚裡。從嫩的兒子約書亞的時候直到這日，以色列人沒有這樣行。於是眾人大大喜樂。
And all the congregation of them that were come again out of the captivity made booths, and sat under the booths: for since the days of Jeshua the son of Nun unto that day had not the children of Israel done so. And there was very great gladness.

8:18    從頭一天，直到末一天，以斯拉每日念神的律法書。眾人守節七日，第八日照例有嚴肅會。
Also day by day, from the first day unto the last day, he read in the book of the law of God. And they kept the feast seven days; and on the eighth day was a solemn assembly, according unto the manner.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


9:1    這月二十四日，以色列人聚集禁食，身穿麻衣，頭蒙灰塵。
Now in the twenty and fourth day of this month the children of Israel were assembled with fasting, and with sackclothes, and earth upon them.

9:2    以色列人（人原文作種類）就與一切外邦人離絕，站著承認自己的罪惡和列祖的罪孽。
And the seed of Israel separated themselves from all strangers, and stood and confessed their sins, and the iniquities of their fathers.

9:3    那日的四分之一，站在自己的地方，念耶和華他們神的律法書，又四分之一認罪，敬拜耶和華他們的神。
And they stood up in their place, and read in the book of the law of the LORD their God one fourth part of the day; and another fourth part they confessed, and worshipped the LORD their God.

9:4    耶書亞，巴尼，甲篾，示巴尼，布尼，示利比，巴尼，基拿尼站在利未人的臺上，大聲哀求耶和華他們的神。
Then stood up upon the stairs, of the Levites, Jeshua, and Bani, Kadmiel, Shebaniah, Bunni, Sherebiah, Bani, and Chenani, and cried with a loud voice unto the LORD their God.

9:5    利未人耶書亞，甲篾，巴尼，哈沙尼，示利比，荷第雅，示巴尼，毗他希雅說，你們要站起來稱頌耶和華你們的神，永世無盡。耶和華阿，你榮耀之名是應當稱頌的。超乎一切稱頌和讚美。
Then the Levites, Jeshua, and Kadmiel, Bani, Hashabniah, Sherebiah, Hodijah, Shebaniah, and Pethahiah, said, Stand up and bless the LORD your God for ever and ever: and blessed be thy glorious name, which is exalted above all blessing and praise.

9:6    你，惟獨你是耶和華。你造了天和天上的天，並天上的永珍，地和地上的萬物，海和海中所有的。這一切都是你所儲存的。天軍也都敬拜你。
Thou, even thou, art LORD alone; thou hast made heaven, the heaven of heavens, with all their host, the earth, and all things that are therein, the seas, and all that is therein, and thou preservest them all; and the host of heaven worshippeth thee.

9:7    你是耶和華神，曾揀選亞伯蘭，領他出迦勒底的吾珥，給他改名叫亞伯拉罕。
Thou art the LORD the God, who didst choose Abram, and broughtest him forth out of Ur of the Chaldees, and gavest him the name of Abraham;

9:8    你見他在你面前心裡誠實，就與他立約。應許把迦南人，赫人，亞摩利人，比利洗人，耶布斯人，革迦撒人之地賜給他的後裔。且應驗了你的話，因為你是公義的。
And foundest his heart faithful before thee, and madest a covenant with him to give the land of the Canaanites, the Hittites, the Amorites, and the Perizzites, and the Jebusites, and the Girgashites, to give it, I say, to his seed, and hast performed thy words; for thou art righteous:

9:9    你曾看見我們列祖在埃及所受的困苦，垂聽他們在紅海邊的哀求。
And didst see the affliction of our fathers in Egypt, and heardest their cry by the Red sea;

9:10    就施行神蹟奇事在法老，和他一切臣僕，並他國中的眾民身上。你也得了名聲，正如今日一樣，因為你知道他們向我們列祖行事狂傲。
And shewedst signs and wonders upon Pharaoh, and on all his servants, and on all the people of his land: for thou knewest that they dealt proudly against them. So didst thou get thee a name, as it is this day.

9:11    你又在我們列祖面前把海分開，使他們在海中行走乾地，將追趕他們的人拋在深海，如石頭拋在大水中。
And thou didst divide the sea before them, so that they went through the midst of the sea on the dry land; and their persecutors thou threwest into the deeps, as a stone into the mighty waters.

9:12    並且白晝用雲柱引導他們，黑夜用火柱照亮他們當行的路。
Moreover thou leddest them in the day by a cloudy pillar; and in the night by a pillar of fire, to give them light in the way wherein they should go.

9:13    你也降臨在西奈山，從天上與他們說話，賜給他們正直的典章，真實的律法，美好的條例與誡命。
Thou camest down also upon mount Sinai, and spakest with them from heaven, and gavest them right judgments, and true laws, good statutes and commandments:

9:14    又使他們知道你的安息聖日，並藉你僕人摩西傳給他們誡命，條例，律法。
And madest known unto them thy holy sabbath, and commandedst them precepts, statutes, and laws, by the hand of Moses thy servant:

9:15    從天上賜下糧食充他們的飢，從磐石使水流出解他們的渴，又吩咐他們進去得你起誓應許賜給他們的地。
And gavest them bread from heaven for their hunger, and broughtest forth water for them out of the rock for their thirst, and promisedst them that they should go in to possess the land which thou hadst sworn to give them.

9:16    但我們的列祖行事狂傲，硬著頸項不聽從你的誡命。
But they and our fathers dealt proudly, and hardened their necks, and hearkened not to thy commandments,

9:17    不肯順從，也不記念你在他們中間所行的奇事，竟硬著頸項，居心背逆，自立首領，要回他們為奴之地。但你是樂意饒恕人，有恩典，有憐憫，不輕易發怒，有豐盛慈愛的神，並不丟棄他們。
And refused to obey, neither were mindful of thy wonders that thou didst among them; but hardened their necks, and in their rebellion appointed a captain to return to their bondage: but thou art a God ready to pardon, gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and forsookest them not.

9:18    他們雖然鑄了一隻牛犢，彼此說，這是領你出埃及的神。因而大大惹動你的怒氣。
Yea, when they had made them a molten calf, and said, This is thy God that brought thee up out of Egypt, and had wrought great provocations;

9:19    你還是大施憐憫，在曠野不丟棄他們。白晝，雲柱不離開他們，仍引導他們行路。黑夜，火柱也不離開他們，仍照亮他們當行的路。
Yet thou in thy manifold mercies forsookest them not in the wilderness: the pillar of the cloud departed not from them by day, to lead them in the way; neither the pillar of fire by night, to shew them light, and the way wherein they should go.

9:20    你也賜下你良善的靈教訓他們，未嘗不賜嗎哪使他們餬口，並賜水解他們的渴。
Thou gavest also thy good spirit to instruct them, and withheldest not thy manna from their mouth, and gavest them water for their thirst.

9:21    在曠野四十年，你養育他們，他們就一無所缺。衣服沒有穿破，腳也沒有腫。
Yea, forty years didst thou sustain them in the wilderness, so that they lacked nothing; their clothes waxed not old, and their feet swelled not.

9:22    並且你將列國之地照分賜給他們，他們就得了西巨集之地，希實本王之地，和巴珊王噩之地。
Moreover thou gavest them kingdoms and nations, and didst divide them into corners: so they possessed the land of Sihon, and the land of the king of Heshbon, and the land of Og king of Bashan.

9:23    你也使他們的子孫多如天上的星，帶他們到你所應許他們列祖進入得為業之地。
Their children also multipliedst thou as the stars of heaven, and broughtest them into the land, concerning which thou hadst promised to their fathers, that they should go in to possess it.

9:24    這樣，他們進去得了那地，你在他們面前制伏那地的居民，就是迦南人。將迦南人和其君王，並那地的居民，都交在他們手裡，讓他們任意而待。
So the children went in and possessed the land, and thou subduedst before them the inhabitants of the land, the Canaanites, and gavest them into their hands, with their kings, and the people of the land, that they might do with them as they would.

9:25    他們得了堅固的城邑，肥美的地土，充滿各樣美物的房屋，鑿成的水井，葡萄園，橄欖園，並許多果木樹。他們就吃而得飽，身體肥胖，因你的大恩，心中快樂。
And they took strong cities, and a fat land, and possessed houses full of all goods, wells digged, vineyards, and oliveyards, and fruit trees in abundance: so they did eat, and were filled, and became fat, and delighted themselves in thy great goodness.

9:26    然而，他們不順從，竟背叛你，將你的律法丟在背後，殺害那勸他們歸向你的眾先知，大大惹動你的怒氣。
Nevertheless they were disobedient, and rebelled against thee, and cast thy law behind their backs, and slew thy prophets which testified against them to turn them to thee, and they wrought great provocations.

9:27    所以你將他們交在敵人的手中，磨難他們。他們遭難的時候哀求你，你就從天上垂聽，照你的大憐憫賜給他們拯救者，救他們脫離敵人的手。
Therefore thou deliveredst them into the hand of their enemies, who vexed them: and in the time of their trouble, when they cried unto thee, thou heardest them from heaven; and according to thy manifold mercies thou gavest them saviours, who saved them out of the hand of their enemies.

9:28    但他們得平安之後，又在你面前行惡，所以你丟棄他們在仇敵的手中，使仇敵轄制他們。然而他們轉回哀求你，你仍從天上垂聽，屢次照你的憐憫拯救他們。
But after they had rest, they did evil again before thee: therefore leftest thou them in the hand of their enemies, so that they had the dominion over them: yet when they returned, and cried unto thee, thou heardest them from heaven; and many times didst thou deliver them according to thy mercies;

9:29    又警戒他們，要使他們歸服你的律法。他們卻行事狂傲，不聽從你的誡命，干犯你的典章（人若遵行就必因此活著），扭轉肩頭，硬著頸項，不肯聽從。
And testifiedst against them, that thou mightest bring them again unto thy law: yet they dealt proudly, and hearkened not unto thy commandments, but sinned against thy judgments, (which if a man do, he shall live in them;) and withdrew the shoulder, and hardened their neck, and would not hear.

9:30    但你多年寬容他們，又用你的靈藉眾先知勸戒他們，他們仍不聽從，所以你將他們交在列國之民的手中。
Yet many years didst thou forbear them, and testifiedst against them by thy spirit in thy prophets: yet would they not give ear: therefore gavest thou them into the hand of the people of the lands.

9:31    然而你大發憐憫，不全然滅絕他們，也不丟棄他們。因為你是有恩典，有憐憫的神。
Nevertheless for thy great mercies' sake thou didst not utterly consume them, nor forsake them; for thou art a gracious and merciful God.

9:32    我們的神阿，你是至大，至能，至可畏，守約施慈愛的神。我們的君王，首領，祭司，先知，列祖，和你的眾民。從亞述列王的時候直到今日所遭遇的苦難，現在求你不要以為小。
Now therefore, our God, the great, the mighty, and the terrible God, who keepest covenant and mercy, let not all the trouble seem little before thee, that hath come upon us, on our kings, on our princes, and on our priests, and on our prophets, and on our fathers, and on all thy people, since the time of the kings of Assyria unto this day.

9:33    在一切臨到我們的事上，你卻是公義的。因你所行的是誠實，我們所做的是邪惡。
Howbeit thou art just in all that is brought upon us; for thou hast done right, but we have done wickedly:

9:34    我們的君王，首領，祭司，列祖都不遵守你的律法。不聽從你的誡命和你警戒他們的話。
Neither have our kings, our princes, our priests, nor our fathers, kept thy law, nor hearkened unto thy commandments and thy testimonies, wherewith thou didst testify against them.

9:35    他們在本國裡沾你大恩的時候，在你所賜給他們這廣大肥美之地上不事奉你，也不轉離他們的惡行。
For they have not served thee in their kingdom, and in thy great goodness that thou gavest them, and in the large and fat land which thou gavest before them, neither turned they from their wicked works.

9:36    我們現今作了奴僕。至於你所賜給我們列祖享受其上的土產，並美物之地，看哪，我們在這地上作了奴僕。
Behold, we are servants this day, and for the land that thou gavest unto our fathers to eat the fruit thereof and the good thereof, behold, we are servants in it:

9:37    這地許多出產歸了列王，就是你因我們的罪所派轄制我們的。他們任意轄制我們的身體和牲畜，我們遭了大難。
And it yieldeth much increase unto the kings whom thou hast set over us because of our sins: also they have dominion over our bodies, and over our cattle, at their pleasure, and we are in great distress.

9:38    因這一切的事，我們立確實的約，寫在冊上。我們的首領，利未人，和祭司都簽了名。
And because of all this we make a sure covenant, and write it; and our princes, Levites, and priests, seal unto it.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


10:1    簽名的是，哈迦利亞的兒子省長尼希米，和西底家。
Now those that sealed were, Nehemiah, the Tirshatha, the son of Hachaliah, and Zidkijah,

10:2    祭司。西萊雅，亞撒利雅，耶利米，
Seraiah, Azariah, Jeremiah,

10:3    巴施戶珥，亞瑪利雅，瑪基雅，
Pashur, Amariah, Malchijah,

10:4    哈突，示巴尼，瑪鹿，
Hattush, Shebaniah, Malluch,



10:5    哈琳，米利末，俄巴底亞，
Harim, Meremoth, Obadiah,

10:6    但以理，近頓，巴錄，
Daniel, Ginnethon, Baruch,

10:7    米書蘭，亞比雅，米雅民，
Meshullam, Abijah, Mijamin,

10:8    瑪西亞，璧該，示瑪雅。
Maaziah, Bilgai, Shemaiah: these were the priests.

10:9    又有利未人，就是亞散尼的兒子耶書亞，希拿達的子孫賓內，甲篾。
And the Levites: both Jeshua the son of Azaniah, Binnui of the sons of Henadad, Kadmiel;

10:10    還有他們的弟兄示巴尼，荷第雅，基利他，毗萊雅，哈難，
And their brethren, Shebaniah, Hodijah, Kelita, Pelaiah, Hanan,

10:11    米迦，利合，哈沙比雅，
Micha, Rehob, Hashabiah,

10:12    撒刻，示利比，示巴尼，
Zaccur, Sherebiah, Shebaniah,

10:13    荷第雅，巴尼，比尼努。
Hodijah, Bani, Beninu.

10:14    又有民的首領，就是巴錄，巴哈摩押，以攔，薩土，巴尼，
The chief of the people; Parosh, Pahathmoab, Elam, Zatthu, Bani,

10:15    布尼，押甲，比拜，
Bunni, Azgad, Bebai,

10:16    亞多尼雅，比革瓦伊，亞丁，
Adonijah, Bigvai, Adin,

10:17    亞特，希西家，押朔，
Ater, Hizkijah, Azzur,

10:18    荷第雅，哈順，比賽，
Hodijah, Hashum, Bezai,

10:19    哈拉，亞拿突，尼拜，
Hariph, Anathoth, Nebai,

10:20    抹比押，米書蘭，希悉，
Magpiash, Meshullam, Hezir,

10:21    米示薩別，撒督，押杜亞，
Meshezabeel, Zadok, Jaddua,

10:22    毗拉提，哈難，亞奈雅，
Pelatiah, Hanan, Anaiah,

10:23    何細亞，哈拿尼雅，哈述，
Hoshea, Hananiah, Hashub,

10:24    哈羅黑，毗利哈，朔百，
Hallohesh, Pileha, Shobek,

10:25    利巨集，哈沙拿，瑪西雅，
Rehum, Hashabnah, Maaseiah,

10:26    亞希雅，哈難，亞難，
And Ahijah, Hanan, Anan,

10:27    瑪鹿，哈琳，巴拿。
Malluch, Harim, Baanah.

10:28    其餘的民，祭司，利未人，守門的，歌唱的，尼提寧，和一切離絕鄰邦居民歸服神律法的，並他們的妻子，兒女，凡有知識能明白的。
And the rest of the people, the priests, the Levites, the porters, the singers, the Nethinims, and all they that had separated themselves from the people of the lands unto the law of God, their wives, their sons, and their daughters, every one having knowledge, and having understanding;

10:29    都隨從他們貴胄的弟兄，發咒起誓，必遵行神藉他僕人摩西所傳的律法，謹守遵行耶和華我們主的一切誡命，典章，律例。
They clave to their brethren, their nobles, and entered into a curse, and into an oath, to walk in God's law, which was given by Moses the servant of God, and to observe and do all the commandments of the LORD our Lord, and his judgments and his statutes;

10:30    並不將我們的女兒嫁給這地的居民，也不為我們的兒子娶他們的女兒。
And that we would not give our daughters unto the people of the land, nor take their daughters for our sons:

10:31    這地的居民若在安息日，或什麼聖日，帶了貨物或糧食來賣給我們，我們必不買。每逢第七年必不耕種，凡欠我們債的必不追討。
And if the people of the land bring ware or any victuals on the sabbath day to sell, that we would not buy it of them on the sabbath, or on the holy day: and that we would leave the seventh year, and the exaction of every debt.

10:32    我們又為自己定例，每年各人捐銀一舍客勒三分之一，為我們神殿的使用，
Also we made ordinances for us, to charge ourselves yearly with the third part of a shekel for the service of the house of our God;

10:33    就是為陳設餅，常獻的素祭，和燔祭，安息日，月朔，節期所獻的與聖物，並以色列人的贖罪祭，以及我們神殿裡一切的費用。
For the shewbread, and for the continual meat offering, and for the continual burnt offering, of the sabbaths, of the new moons, for the set feasts, and for the holy things, and for the sin offerings to make an atonement for Israel, and for all the work of the house of our God.

10:34    我們的祭司，利未人，和百姓都掣籤，看每年是哪一族按定期將獻祭的柴奉到我們神的殿裡。照著律法上所寫的，燒在耶和華我們神的壇上。
And we cast the lots among the priests, the Levites, and the people, for the wood offering, to bring it into the house of our God, after the houses of our fathers, at times appointed year by year, to burn upon the altar of the LORD our God, as it is written in the law:

10:35    又定每年將我們地上初熟的土產，和各樣樹上初熟的果子，都奉到耶和華的殿裡。
And to bring the firstfruits of our ground, and the firstfruits of all fruit of all trees, year by year, unto the house of the LORD:

10:36    又照律法上所寫的，將我們頭胎的兒子，和首生的牛羊，都奉到我們神的殿，交給我們神的殿裡供職的祭司。
Also the firstborn of our sons, and of our cattle, as it is written in the law, and the firstlings of our herds and of our flocks, to bring to the house of our God, unto the priests that minister in the house of our God:

10:37    並將初熟之麥子所磨的面和舉祭，各樣樹上初熟的果子，新酒與油奉給祭司，收在我們神殿的庫房裡，把我們地上所產的十分之一奉給利未人，因利未人在我們一切城邑的土產中當取十分之一。
And that we should bring the firstfruits of our dough, and our offerings, and the fruit of all manner of trees, of wine and of oil, unto the priests, to the chambers of the house of our God; and the tithes of our ground unto the Levites, that the same Levites might have the tithes in all the cities of our tillage.

10:38    利未人取十分之一的時候，亞倫的子孫中，當有一個祭司與利未人同在。利未人也當從十分之一中取十分之一，奉到我們神殿的屋子裡，收在庫房中。
And the priest the son of Aaron shall be with the Levites, when the Levites take tithes: and the Levites shall bring up the tithe of the tithes unto the house of our God, to the chambers, into the treasure house.

10:39    以色列人和利未人要將五穀，新酒，和油為舉祭，奉到收存聖所器皿的屋子裡，就是供職的祭司，守門的，歌唱的所住的屋子。這樣，我們就不離棄我們神的殿。
For the children of Israel and the children of Levi shall bring the offering of the corn, of the new wine, and the oil, unto the chambers, where are the vessels of the sanctuary, and the priests that minister, and the porters, and the singers: and we will not forsake the house of our God.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


11:1    百姓的首領住在耶路撒冷。其餘的百姓掣籤，每十人中使一人來住在聖城耶路撒冷，那九人住在別的城邑。
And the rulers of the people dwelt at Jerusalem: the rest of the people also cast lots, to bring one of ten to dwell in Jerusalem the holy city, and nine parts to dwell in other cities.

11:2    凡甘心樂意住在耶路撒冷的，百姓都為他們祝福。
And the people blessed all the men, that willingly offered themselves to dwell at Jerusalem.

11:3    以色列人，祭司，利未人，尼提寧，和所羅門僕人的後裔都住在猶大城邑，各在自己的地業中。本省的首領住在耶路撒冷的，記在下面。
Now these are the chief of the province that dwelt in Jerusalem: but in the cities of Judah dwelt every one in his possession in their cities, to wit, Israel, the priests, and the Levites, and the Nethinims, and the children of Solomon's servants.

11:4    其中有些猶大人和便雅憫人。猶大人中有法勒斯的子孫，烏西雅的兒子亞他雅。烏西雅是撒迦利雅的兒子。撒迦利雅是亞瑪利雅的兒子。亞瑪利雅是示法提雅的兒子。示法提雅是瑪勒列的兒子。
And at Jerusalem dwelt certain of the children of Judah, and of the children of Benjamin. Of the children of Judah; Athaiah the son of Uzziah, the son of Zechariah, the son of Amariah, the son of Shephatiah, the son of Mahalaleel, of the children of Perez;

11:5    又有巴錄的兒子瑪西雅。巴錄是谷何西的兒子。谷何西是哈賽雅的兒子。哈賽雅是亞大雅的兒子。亞大雅是約雅立的兒子。約雅立是撒迦利雅的兒子。撒迦利雅是示羅尼的兒子。
And Maaseiah the son of Baruch, the son of Colhozeh, the son of Hazaiah, the son of Adaiah, the son of Joiarib, the son of Zechariah, the son of Shiloni.

11:6    住在耶路撒冷，法勒斯的子孫共四百六十八名，都是勇士。
All the sons of Perez that dwelt at Jerusalem were four hundred threescore and eight valiant men.

11:7    便雅憫人中有米書蘭的兒子撒路。米書蘭是約葉的兒子。約葉是毗大雅的兒子。毗大雅是哥賴雅的兒子。哥賴雅是瑪西雅的兒子。瑪西雅是以鐵的兒子。以鐵是耶篩亞的兒子。
And these are the sons of Benjamin; Sallu the son of Meshullam, the son of Joed, the son of Pedaiah, the son of Kolaiah, the son of Maaseiah, the son of Ithiel, the son of Jesaiah.

11:8    其次有迦拜，撒來的子孫，共九百二十八名。
And after him Gabbai, Sallai, nine hundred twenty and eight.

11:9    細基利的兒子約珥是他們的長官。哈西努亞的兒子，猶大是耶路撒冷的副官。
And Joel the son of Zichri was their overseer: and Judah the son of Senuah was second over the city.

11:10    祭司中有雅斤，又有約雅立的兒子耶大雅。
Of the priests: Jedaiah the son of Joiarib, Jachin.

11:11    還有管理神殿的西萊雅，西萊雅是希勒家的兒子。希勒家是米書蘭的兒子。米書蘭是撒督的兒子。撒督是米拉約的兒子。米拉約是亞希突的兒子。
Seraiah the son of Hilkiah, the son of Meshullam, the son of Zadok, the son of Meraioth, the son of Ahitub, was the ruler of the house of God.

11:12    還有他們的弟兄在殿裡供職的，共八百二十二名。又有耶羅罕的兒子亞大雅。耶羅罕是毗拉利的兒子。毗拉利是暗洗的兒子。暗洗是撒迦利亞的兒子。撒迦利亞是巴施戶珥的兒子。巴施戶珥是瑪基雅的兒子。
And their brethren that did the work of the house were eight hundred twenty and two: and Adaiah the son of Jeroham, the son of Pelaliah, the son of Amzi, the son of Zechariah, the son of Pashur, the son of Malchiah,

11:13    還有他的弟兄作族長的，二百四十二名。又有亞薩列的兒子亞瑪帥。亞薩列是亞哈賽的兒子。亞哈賽是米實利末的兒子。米實利末是音麥的兒子。
And his brethren, chief of the fathers, two hundred forty and two: and Amashai the son of Azareel, the son of Ahasai, the son of Meshillemoth, the son of Immer,

11:14    還有他們弟兄，大能的勇士共一百二十八名。哈基多琳的兒子撒巴第業是他們的長官。
And their brethren, mighty men of valour, an hundred twenty and eight: and their overseer was Zabdiel, the son of one of the great men.

11:15    利未人中有哈述的兒子示瑪雅。哈述是押利甘的兒子。押利甘是哈沙比雅的兒子。哈沙比雅是布尼的兒子。
Also of the Levites: Shemaiah the son of Hashub, the son of Azrikam, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Bunni;

11:16    又有利未人的族長，沙比太和約撒拔管理神殿的外事。
And Shabbethai and Jozabad, of the chief of the Levites, had the oversight of the outward business of the house of God.

11:17    祈禱的時候，為稱謝領首的是米迦的兒子瑪他尼。米迦是撒底的兒子。撒底是亞薩的兒子。又有瑪他尼弟兄中的八布迦為副。還有沙母亞的兒子押大。沙母亞是加拉的兒子。加拉是耶杜頓的兒子。
And Mattaniah the son of Micha, the son of Zabdi, the son of Asaph, was the principal to begin the thanksgiving in prayer: and Bakbukiah the second among his brethren, and Abda the son of Shammua, the son of Galal, the son of Jeduthun.

11:18    在聖城的利未人共二百八十四名。
All the Levites in the holy city were two hundred fourscore and four.

11:19    守門的是亞谷和達們，並守門的弟兄，共一百七十二名。
Moreover the porters, Akkub, Talmon, and their brethren that kept the gates, were an hundred seventy and two.



11:20    其餘的以色列人，祭司，利未人都住在猶大的一切城邑，各在自己的地業中。
And the residue of Israel, of the priests, and the Levites, were in all the cities of Judah, every one in his inheritance.

11:21    尼提寧卻住在俄斐勒。西哈和基斯帕管理他們。
But the Nethinims dwelt in Ophel: and Ziha and Gispa were over the Nethinims.

11:22    在耶路撒冷，利未人的長官，管理神殿事務的是歌唱者亞薩的子孫，巴尼的兒子烏西。巴尼是哈沙比雅的兒子。哈沙比雅是瑪他尼的兒子。瑪他尼是米迦的兒子。
The overseer also of the Levites at Jerusalem was Uzzi the son of Bani, the son of Hashabiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Micha. Of the sons of Asaph, the singers were over the business of the house of God.

11:23    王為歌唱的出命令，每日供給他們必有一定之糧。
For it was the king's commandment concerning them, that a certain portion should be for the singers, due for every day.

11:24    猶大兒子謝拉的子孫，米示薩別的兒子毗他希雅，輔助王辦理猶大民的事。
And Pethahiah the son of Meshezabeel, of the children of Zerah the son of Judah, was at the king's hand in all matters concerning the people.

11:25    至於村莊和屬村莊的田地，有猶大人住在基列亞巴，和屬基列亞巴的鄉村。底本和屬底本的鄉村。葉甲薛和屬葉甲薛的村莊。
And for the villages, with their fields, some of the children of Judah dwelt at Kirjatharba, and in the villages thereof, and at Dibon, and in the villages thereof, and at Jekabzeel, and in the villages thereof,

11:26    耶書亞，摩拉大，伯帕列，
And at Jeshua, and at Moladah, and at Bethphelet,

11:27    哈薩書亞，別是巴，和屬別是巴的鄉村。
And at Hazarshual, and at Beersheba, and in the villages thereof,

11:28    洗革拉，米哥拿，和屬米哥拿的鄉村。
And at Ziklag, and at Mekonah, and in the villages thereof,

11:29    音臨門，瑣拉，耶末，
And at Enrimmon, and at Zareah, and at Jarmuth,

11:30    撒挪亞，亞杜蘭，和屬這兩處的村莊。拉吉和屬拉吉的田地。亞西加和屬亞西加的鄉村。他們所住的地方是從別是巴直到欣嫩谷。
Zanoah, Adullam, and in their villages, at Lachish, and the fields thereof, at Azekah, and in the villages thereof. And they dwelt from Beersheba unto the valley of Hinnom.

11:31    便雅憫人從迦巴起，住在密抹，亞雅，伯特利和屬伯特利的鄉村。
The children also of Benjamin from Geba dwelt at Michmash, and Aija, and Bethel, and in their villages,

11:32    亞拿突，挪伯，亞難雅，
And at Anathoth, Nob, Ananiah,

11:33    夏瑣，拉瑪，基他音，
Hazor, Ramah, Gittaim,

11:34    哈疊，洗編，尼八拉，
Hadid, Zeboim, Neballat,

11:35    羅德，阿挪，匠人之谷。
Lod, and Ono, the valley of craftsmen.

11:36    利未人中有幾班曾住在猶大地歸於便雅憫的。
And of the Levites were divisions in Judah, and in Benjamin.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


12:1    同著撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，和耶書亞回來的祭司，與利未人記在下面。祭司是西萊雅，耶利米，以斯拉，
Now these are the priests and the Levites that went up with Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Jeshua: Seraiah, Jeremiah, Ezra,

12:2    亞瑪利雅，瑪鹿，哈突，
Amariah, Malluch, Hattush,

12:3    示迦尼，利巨集，米利末，
Shechaniah, Rehum, Meremoth,

12:4    易多，近頓，亞比雅，
Iddo, Ginnetho, Abijah,

12:5    米雅民，瑪底雅，璧迦，
Miamin, Maadiah, Bilgah,

12:6    示瑪雅，約雅立，耶大雅，
Shemaiah, and Joiarib, Jedaiah,

12:7    撒路，亞木，希勒家，耶大雅。這些人在耶書亞的時候作祭司，和他們弟兄的首領。
Sallu, Amok, Hilkiah, Jedaiah. These were the chief of the priests and of their brethren in the days of Jeshua.

12:8    利未人是耶書亞，賓內，甲篾，示利比，猶大，瑪他尼。這瑪他尼和他的弟兄管理稱謝的事。
Moreover the Levites: Jeshua, Binnui, Kadmiel, Sherebiah, Judah, and Mattaniah, which was over the thanksgiving, he and his brethren.

12:9    他們的弟兄八布迦，和烏尼照自己的班次與他們相對。
Also Bakbukiah and Unni, their brethren, were over against them in the watches.

12:10    耶書亞生約雅金。約雅金生以利亞實。以利亞實生耶何耶大。
And Jeshua begat Joiakim, Joiakim also begat Eliashib, and Eliashib begat Joiada,

12:11    耶何耶大生約拿單。約拿單生押杜亞。
And Joiada begat Jonathan, and Jonathan begat Jaddua.

12:12    在約雅金的時候，祭司作族長的西萊雅族（或作班本段同）有米拉雅。耶利米族有哈拿尼雅。
And in the days of Joiakim were priests, the chief of the fathers: of Seraiah, Meraiah; of Jeremiah, Hananiah;

12:13    以斯拉族有米書蘭。亞瑪利雅族有約哈難。
Of Ezra, Meshullam; of Amariah, Jehohanan;

12:14    米利古族有約拿單。示巴尼族有約瑟。
Of Melicu, Jonathan; of Shebaniah, Joseph;

12:15    哈琳族有押拿。米拉約族有希勒愷。
Of Harim, Adna; of Meraioth, Helkai;

12:16    易多族有撒迦利亞。近頓族有米書蘭。
Of Iddo, Zechariah; of Ginnethon, Meshullam;

12:17    亞比雅族有細基利。米拿民族某。摩亞底族有毗勒太。
Of Abijah, Zichri; of Miniamin, of Moadiah, Piltai;

12:18    璧迦族有沙母亞。示瑪雅族有約拿單。
Of Bilgah, Shammua; of Shemaiah, Jehonathan;

12:19    約雅立族有瑪特乃。耶大雅族有烏西。
And of Joiarib, Mattenai; of Jedaiah, Uzzi;

12:20    撒來族有加萊。亞木族有希伯。
Of Sallai, Kallai; of Amok, Eber;

12:21    希勒家族有哈沙比雅。耶大雅族有拿坦業。
Of Hilkiah, Hashabiah; of Jedaiah, Nethaneel.

12:22    至於利未人，當以利亞實，耶何耶大，約哈難，押杜亞的時候，他們的族長記在冊上。波斯王大流士在位的時候，作族長的祭司也記在冊上。
The Levites in the days of Eliashib, Joiada, and Johanan, and Jaddua, were recorded chief of the fathers: also the priests, to the reign of Darius the Persian.

12:23    利未人作族長的記在歷史上，直到以利亞實的兒子約哈難的時候。
The sons of Levi, the chief of the fathers, were written in the book of the chronicles, even until the days of Johanan the son of Eliashib.

12:24    利未人的族長是哈沙比雅，示利比，甲篾的兒子耶書亞，與他們弟兄的班次相對，照著神人大衛的命令一班一班地讚美稱謝。
And the chief of the Levites: Hashabiah, Sherebiah, and Jeshua the son of Kadmiel, with their brethren over against them, to praise and to give thanks, according to the commandment of David the man of God, ward over against ward.

12:25    瑪他尼，八布迦，俄巴底亞，米書蘭，達們，亞谷是守門的，就是在庫房那裡守門。
Mattaniah, and Bakbukiah, Obadiah, Meshullam, Talmon, Akkub, were porters keeping the ward at the thresholds of the gates.

12:26    這都是在約撒達的孫子，耶書亞的兒子約雅金，和省長尼希米，並祭司文士以斯拉的時候，有職任的。
These were in the days of Joiakim the son of Jeshua, the son of Jozadak, and in the days of Nehemiah the governor, and of Ezra the priest, the scribe.

12:27    耶路撒冷城牆告成的時候，眾民就把各處的利未人，招到耶路撒冷，要稱謝，歌唱，敲鈸，鼓瑟，彈琴，歡歡喜喜地行告成之禮。
And at the dedication of the wall of Jerusalem they sought the Levites out of all their places, to bring them to Jerusalem, to keep the dedication with gladness, both with thanksgivings, and with singing, with cymbals, psalteries, and with harps.

12:28    歌唱的人從耶路撒冷的周圍，和尼陀法的村莊與伯吉甲，
And the sons of the singers gathered themselves together, both out of the plain country round about Jerusalem, and from the villages of Netophathi;

12:29    又從迦巴和押瑪弗的田地聚集，因為歌唱的人在耶路撒冷四圍為自己立了村莊。
Also from the house of Gilgal, and out of the fields of Geba and Azmaveth: for the singers had builded them villages round about Jerusalem.

12:30    祭司和利未人就潔淨自己，也潔淨百姓和城門，並城牆。
And the priests and the Levites purified themselves, and purified the people, and the gates, and the wall.

12:31    我帶猶大的首領上城，使稱謝的人分為兩大隊，排列而行。第一隊在城上往右邊向糞廠門行走。
Then I brought up the princes of Judah upon the wall, and appointed two great companies of them that gave thanks, whereof one went on the right hand upon the wall toward the dung gate:

12:32    在他們後頭的有何沙雅，與猶大首領的一半。
And after them went Hoshaiah, and half of the princes of Judah,

12:33    又有亞撒利雅，以斯拉，米書蘭，
And Azariah, Ezra, and Meshullam,

12:34    猶大，便雅憫，示瑪雅，耶利米。
Judah, and Benjamin, and Shemaiah, and Jeremiah,

12:35    還有些吹號之祭司的子孫，約拿單的兒子撒迦利亞。約拿單是示瑪雅的兒子。示瑪雅是瑪他尼的兒子。瑪他尼是米該亞的兒子。米該亞是撒刻的兒子。撒刻是亞薩的兒子。
And certain of the priests' sons with trumpets; namely, Zechariah the son of Jonathan, the son of Shemaiah, the son of Mattaniah, the son of Michaiah, the son of Zaccur, the son of Asaph:

12:36    又有撒迦利亞的弟兄示瑪雅，亞撒利，米拉萊，基拉萊，瑪艾，拿坦業，猶大，哈拿尼，都拿著神人大衛的樂器，文士以斯拉引領他們。
And his brethren, Shemaiah, and Azarael, Milalai, Gilalai, Maai, Nethaneel, and Judah, Hanani, with the musical instruments of David the man of God, and Ezra the scribe before them.

12:37    他們經過泉門往前，從大衛城的臺階隨地勢而上，在大衛宮殿以上，直行到朝東的水門。
And at the fountain gate, which was over against them, they went up by the stairs of the city of David, at the going up of the wall, above the house of David, even unto the water gate eastward.

12:38    第二隊稱謝的人，要與那一隊相迎而行。我和民的一半跟隨他們，在城牆上過了爐樓，直到寬牆。
And the other company of them that gave thanks went over against them, and I after them, and the half of the people upon the wall, from beyond the tower of the furnaces even unto the broad wall;

12:39    又過了以法蓮門，古門，魚門，哈楠業樓，哈米亞樓，直到羊門，就在護衛門站住。
And from above the gate of Ephraim, and above the old gate, and above the fish gate, and the tower of Hananeel, and the tower of Meah, even unto the sheep gate: and they stood still in the prison gate.

12:40    於是，這兩隊稱謝的人連我，和官長的一半，站在神的殿裡。
So stood the two companies of them that gave thanks in the house of God, and I, and the half of the rulers with me:



12:41    還有祭司以利亞金，瑪西雅，米拿民，米該雅，以利約乃，撒迦利亞，哈楠尼亞吹號。
And the priests; Eliakim, Maaseiah, Miniamin, Michaiah, Elioenai, Zechariah, and Hananiah, with trumpets;

12:42    又有瑪西雅，示瑪雅，以利亞撒，烏西，約哈難，瑪基雅，以攔，和以謝奏樂。歌唱的就大聲歌唱，伊斯拉希雅管理他們。
And Maaseiah, and Shemaiah, and Eleazar, and Uzzi, and Jehohanan, and Malchijah, and Elam, and Ezer. And the singers sang loud, with Jezrahiah their overseer.

12:43    那日，眾人獻大祭而歡樂。因為神使他們大大歡樂，連婦女帶孩童也都歡樂，甚至耶路撒冷中的歡聲聽到遠處。
Also that day they offered great sacrifices, and rejoiced: for God had made them rejoice with great joy: the wives also and the children rejoiced: so that the joy of Jerusalem was heard even afar off.

12:44    當日，派人管理庫房，將舉祭，初熟之物，和所取的十分之一，就是按各城田地，照律法所定歸給祭司和利未人的分，都收在裡頭。猶大人因祭司和利未人供職，就歡樂了。
And at that time were some appointed over the chambers for the treasures, for the offerings, for the firstfruits, and for the tithes, to gather into them out of the fields of the cities the portions of the law for the priests and Levites: for Judah rejoiced for the priests and for the Levites that waited.

12:45    祭司利未人遵守神所吩咐的，並守潔淨的禮。歌唱的，守門的，照著大衛和他兒子所羅門的命令也如此行。
And both the singers and the porters kept the ward of their God, and the ward of the purification, according to the commandment of David, and of Solomon his son.

12:46    古時，在大衛和亞薩的日子，有歌唱的伶長，並有讚美稱謝神的詩歌。
For in the days of David and Asaph of old there were chief of the singers, and songs of praise and thanksgiving unto God.

12:47    當所羅巴伯和尼希米的時候，以色列眾人將歌唱的，守門的，每日所當得的分供給他們，又給利未人當得的分。利未人又給亞倫的子孫當得的分。
And all Israel in the days of Zerubbabel, and in the days of Nehemiah, gave the portions of the singers and the porters, every day his portion: and they sanctified holy things unto the Levites; and the Levites sanctified them unto the children of Aaron.




舊約 -- 尼希米記(Nehemiah) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 13 章 )    　


13:1    當日，人念摩西的律法書給百姓聽，遇見書上寫著說，亞捫人和摩押人永不可入神的會。
On that day they read in the book of Moses in the audience of the people; and therein was found written, that the Ammonite and the Moabite should not come into the congregation of God for ever;

13:2    因為他們沒有拿食物，和水來迎接以色列人，且僱了巴蘭咒詛他們，但我們的神使那咒詛變為祝福。
Because they met not the children of Israel with bread and with water, but hired Balaam against them, that he should curse them: howbeit our God turned the curse into a blessing.

13:3    以色列民聽見這律法，就與一切閒雜人絕交。
Now it came to pass, when they had heard the law, that they separated from Israel all the mixed multitude.

13:4    先是蒙派管理我們神殿中庫房，的祭司以利亞實與多比雅結親。
And before this, Eliashib the priest, having the oversight of the chamber of the house of our God, was allied unto Tobiah:

13:5    便為他預備一間大屋子，就是從前收存素祭，乳香，器皿，和照命令供給利未人，歌唱的，守門的五穀，新酒，和油的十分之一，並歸祭司舉祭的屋子。
And he had prepared for him a great chamber, where aforetime they laid the meat offerings, the frankincense, and the vessels, and the tithes of the corn, the new wine, and the oil, which was commanded to be given to the Levites, and the singers, and the porters; and the offerings of the priests.

13:6    那時我不在耶路撒冷。因為巴比倫王亞達薛西三十二年，我回到王那裡。過了多日，我向王告假。
But in all this time was not I at Jerusalem: for in the two and thirtieth year of Artaxerxes king of Babylon came I unto the king, and after certain days obtained I leave of the king:

13:7    我來到耶路撒冷，就知道以利亞實為多比雅在神殿的院內，預備屋子的那件惡事。
And I came to Jerusalem, and understood of the evil that Eliashib did for Tobiah, in preparing him a chamber in the courts of the house of God.

13:8    我甚惱怒，就把多比雅的一切傢俱從屋裡都丟擲去。
And it grieved me sore: therefore I cast forth all the household stuff of Tobiah out of the chamber.

13:9    吩咐人潔淨這屋子，遂將神殿的器皿和素祭，乳香又搬進去。
Then I commanded, and they cleansed the chambers: and thither brought I again the vessels of the house of God, with the meat offering and the frankincense.

13:10    我見利未人所當得的分，無人供給他們，甚至供職的利未人與歌唱的，俱各奔回自己的田地去了。
And I perceived that the portions of the Levites had not been given them: for the Levites and the singers, that did the work, were fled every one to his field.

13:11    我就斥責官長說，為何離棄神的殿呢。我便招聚利未人，使他們照舊供職。
Then contended I with the rulers, and said, Why is the house of God forsaken? And I gathered them together, and set them in their place.

13:12    猶大眾人就把五穀，新酒，和油的十分之一送入庫房。
Then brought all Judah the tithe of the corn and the new wine and the oil unto the treasuries.

13:13    我派祭司示利米雅，文士撒督，和利未人毗大雅作庫官管理庫房。副官是哈難。哈難是撒刻的兒子。撒刻是瑪他尼的兒子。這些人都是忠信的，他們的職分是將所供給的分給他們的弟兄。
And I made treasurers over the treasuries, Shelemiah the priest, and Zadok the scribe, and of the Levites, Pedaiah: and next to them was Hanan the son of Zaccur, the son of Mattaniah: for they were counted faithful, and their office was to distribute unto their brethren.

13:14    我的神阿，求你因這事記念我，不要塗抹我為神的殿，與其中的禮節所行的善。
Remember me, O my God, concerning this, and wipe not out my good deeds that I have done for the house of my God, and for the offices thereof.

13:15    那些日子，我在猶大見有人在安息日榨酒（原文作踹酒榨），搬運禾捆馱在驢上。又把酒，葡萄，無花果，和各樣的擔子在安息日擔入耶路撒冷，我就在他們賣食物的那日警戒他們。
In those days saw I in Judah some treading wine presses on the sabbath, and bringing in sheaves, and lading asses; as also wine, grapes, and figs, and all manner of burdens, which they brought into Jerusalem on the sabbath day: and I testified against them in the day wherein they sold victuals.

13:16    又有推羅人住在耶路撒冷。他們把魚和各樣貨物運進來，在安息日賣給猶大人。
There dwelt men of Tyre also therein, which brought fish, and all manner of ware, and sold on the sabbath unto the children of Judah, and in Jerusalem.

13:17    我就斥責猶大的貴胄說，你們怎嗎行這惡事犯了安息日呢。
Then I contended with the nobles of Judah, and said unto them, What evil thing is this that ye do, and profane the sabbath day?

13:18    從前你們列祖豈不是這樣行，以致我們神使一切災禍臨到我們，和這城嗎。現在你們還犯安息日，使忿怒越發臨到以色列。
Did not your fathers thus, and did not our God bring all this evil upon us, and upon this city? yet ye bring more wrath upon Israel by profaning the sabbath.

13:19    在安息日的前一日，耶路撒冷城門有黑影的時候，我就吩咐人將門關鎖，不過安息日不準開放。我又派我幾個僕人管理城門，免得有人在安息日擔什麼擔子進城。
And it came to pass, that when the gates of Jerusalem began to be dark before the sabbath, I commanded that the gates should be shut, and charged that they should not be opened till after the sabbath: and some of my servants set I at the gates, that there should no burden be brought in on the sabbath day.

13:20    於是商人和販賣各樣貨物的，一兩次住宿在耶路撒冷城外。
So the merchants and sellers of all kind of ware lodged without Jerusalem once or twice.

13:21    我就警戒他們說，你們為何在城外住宿呢。若再這樣，我必下手拿辦你們。從此以後，他們在安息日不再來了。
Then I testified against them, and said unto them, Why lodge ye about the wall? if ye do so again, I will lay hands on you. From that time forth came they no more on the sabbath.

13:22    我吩咐利未人潔淨自己，來守城門，使安息日為聖。我的神阿，求你因這事記念我，照你的大慈愛憐恤我。
And I commanded the Levites that they should cleanse themselves, and that they should come and keep the gates, to sanctify the sabbath day. Remember me, O my God, concerning this also, and spare me according to the greatness of thy mercy.

13:23    那些日子，我也見猶大人娶了亞實突，亞捫，摩押的女子為妻。
In those days also saw I Jews that had married wives of Ashdod, of Ammon, and of Moab:

13:24    他們的兒女說話，一半是亞實突的話，不會說猶大的話，所說的是照著各族的方言。
And their children spake half in the speech of Ashdod, and could not speak in the Jews' language, but according to the language of each people.

13:25    我就斥責他們，咒詛他們，打了他們幾個人，拔下他們的頭髮，叫他們指著神起誓，必不將自己的女兒嫁給外邦人的兒子，也不為自己和兒子娶他們的女兒。
And I contended with them, and cursed them, and smote certain of them, and plucked off their hair, and made them swear by God, saying, Ye shall not give your daughters unto their sons, nor take their daughters unto your sons, or for yourselves.

13:26    我又說，以色列王所羅門不是在這樣的事上犯罪嗎。在多國中並沒有一王像他，且蒙他神所愛，神立他作以色列全國的王。然而連他也被外邦女子引誘犯罪。
Did not Solomon king of Israel sin by these things? yet among many nations was there no king like him, who was beloved of his God, and God made him king over all Israel: nevertheless even him did outlandish women cause to sin.

13:27    如此，我豈聽你們行這大惡，娶外邦女子干犯我們的神呢。
Shall we then hearken unto you to do all this great evil, to transgress against our God in marrying strange wives?

13:28    大祭司以利亞實的孫子，耶何耶大的一個兒子是，和倫人叄巴拉的女婿，我就從我這裡把他趕出去。
And one of the sons of Joiada, the son of Eliashib the high priest, was son in law to Sanballat the Horonite: therefore I chased him from me.

13:29    我的神阿，求你記念他們的罪。因為他們玷汙了祭司的職任，違揹你與祭司利未人所立的約。
Remember them, O my God, because they have defiled the priesthood, and the covenant of the priesthood, and of the Levites.

13:30    這樣，我潔淨他們，使他們離絕一切外邦人，派定祭司和利未人的班次，使他們各盡其職。
Thus cleansed I them from all strangers, and appointed the wards of the priests and the Levites, every one in his business;

13:31    我又派百姓按定期獻柴，和初熟的土產。我的神阿，求你記念我，施恩與我。
And for the wood offering, at times appointed, and for the firstfruits. Remember me, O my God, for good.



