


舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


1:1    亞哈隨魯作王，從印度直到古實，統管一百二十七省。
Now it came to pass in the days of Ahasuerus, (this is Ahasuerus which reigned, from India even unto Ethiopia, over an hundred and seven and twenty provinces:)

1:2    亞哈隨魯王在書珊城的宮登基。
That in those days, when the king Ahasuerus sat on the throne of his kingdom, which was in Shushan the palace,

1:3    在位第三年，他一切首領臣僕設擺筵席，有波斯和米底亞的權貴，就是各省的貴胄與首領，在他面前。
In the third year of his reign, he made a feast unto all his princes and his servants; the power of Persia and Media, the nobles and princes of the provinces, being before him:

1:4    他把他榮耀之國的豐富，和他美好威嚴的尊貴，給他們看了許多日，就是一百八十日。
When he shewed the riches of his glorious kingdom and the honour of his excellent majesty many days, even an hundred and fourscore days.

1:5    這日子滿了，又為所有住書珊城的大小人民，在御園的院子裡設擺筵席七日。
And when these days were expired, the king made a feast unto all the people that were present in Shushan the palace, both unto great and small, seven days, in the court of the garden of the king's palace;

1:6    有白色，綠色，藍色的帳子，用細麻繩，紫色繩從銀環內系在白玉石柱上。有金銀的床榻擺在紅，白，黃，黑玉石鋪的石地上。
Where were white, green, and blue, hangings, fastened with cords of fine linen and purple to silver rings and pillars of marble: the beds were of gold and silver, upon a pavement of red, and blue, and white, and black, marble.

1:7    用金器皿賜酒，器皿各有不同。御酒甚多，足顯王的厚意。
And they gave them drink in vessels of gold, (the vessels being diverse one from another,) and royal wine in abundance, according to the state of the king.

1:8    喝酒有例，不準勉強人，因王吩咐宮裡的一切臣宰，讓人各隨己意。
And the drinking was according to the law; none did compel: for so the king had appointed to all the officers of his house, that they should do according to every man's pleasure.

1:9    王后瓦實提在亞哈隨魯王的宮內，也為婦女設擺筵席。
Also Vashti the queen made a feast for the women in the royal house which belonged to king Ahasuerus.

1:10    第七日，亞哈隨魯王飲酒，心中快樂，就吩咐在他面前侍立的七個太監，米戶幔，比斯他，哈波拿，比革他，亞拔他，西達，甲迦，
On the seventh day, when the heart of the king was merry with wine, he commanded Mehuman, Biztha, Harbona, Bigtha, and Abagtha, Zethar, and Carcas, the seven chamberlains that served in the presence of Ahasuerus the king,

1:11    請王后瓦實提頭戴王后的冠冕到王面前，使各等臣民看她的美貌，因為她容貌甚美。
To bring Vashti the queen before the king with the crown royal, to shew the people and the princes her beauty: for she was fair to look on.

1:12    王后瓦實提卻不肯遵太監所傳的王命而來，所以王甚發怒，心如火燒。
But the queen Vashti refused to come at the king's commandment by his chamberlains: therefore was the king very wroth, and his anger burned in him.

1:13    那時，在王左右常見王面，國中坐高位的，有波斯和米底亞的七個大臣，就是甲示拿，示達，押瑪他，他施斯，米力，瑪西拿，米母幹，
Then the king said to the wise men, which knew the times, (for so was the king's manner toward all that knew law and judgment:

1:14    都是達時務的明哲人。按王的常規，辦事必先詢問知例明法的人。王問他們說，
And the next unto him was Carshena, Shethar, Admatha, Tarshish, Meres, Marsena, and Memucan, the seven princes of Persia and Media, which saw the king's face, and which sat the first in the kingdom;)

1:15    王后瓦實提不遵太監所傳的王命，照例應當怎樣辦理呢。
What shall we do unto the queen Vashti according to law, because she hath not performed the commandment of the king Ahasuerus by the chamberlains?

1:16    米母幹在王和眾首領面前回答說，王后瓦實提這事，不但得罪王，並且有害於王各省的臣民。
And Memucan answered before the king and the princes, Vashti the queen hath not done wrong to the king only, but also to all the princes, and to all the people that are in all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus.

1:17    因為王后這事必傳到眾婦人的耳中，說，亞哈隨魯王吩咐王后瓦實提到王面前，她卻不來，她們就藐視自己的丈夫。
For this deed of the queen shall come abroad unto all women, so that they shall despise their husbands in their eyes, when it shall be reported, The king Ahasuerus commanded Vashti the queen to be brought in before him, but she came not.

1:18    今日波斯和米底亞的眾夫人聽見王后這事，必向王的大臣照樣行。從此必大開藐視和忿怒之端。
Likewise shall the ladies of Persia and Media say this day unto all the king's princes, which have heard of the deed of the queen. Thus shall there arise too much contempt and wrath.

1:19    王若以為美，就降旨寫在波斯和米底亞人的例中，永不更改，不準瓦實提再到王面前，將她王后的位分賜給比她還好的人。
If it please the king, let there go a royal commandment from him, and let it be written among the laws of the Persians and the Medes, that it be not altered, That Vashti come no more before king Ahasuerus; and let the king give her royal estate unto another that is better than she.

1:20    所降的旨意傳遍通國（國度本來廣大），所有的婦人，無論丈夫貴賤都必尊敬他。
And when the king's decree which he shall make shall be published throughout all his empire, (for it is great,) all the wives shall give to their husbands honour, both to great and small.

1:21    王和眾首領都以米母乾的話為美，王就照這話去行，
And the saying pleased the king and the princes; and the king did according to the word of Memucan:

1:22    發詔書，用各省的文字，各族的方言通知各省，使為丈夫的在家中作主，各說本地的方言。
For he sent letters into all the king's provinces, into every province according to the writing thereof, and to every people after their language, that every man should bear rule in his own house, and that it should be published according to the language of every people.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


2:1    這事以後，亞哈隨魯王的忿怒止息，就想念瓦實提和她所行的，並怎樣降旨辦她。
After these things, when the wrath of king Ahasuerus was appeased, he remembered Vashti, and what she had done, and what was decreed against her.

2:2    於是王的侍臣對王說，不如為王尋梢美貌的處女。
Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, Let there be fair young virgins sought for the king:

2:3    王可以派官在國中的各省，招聚美貌的處女到書珊城（或作宮）的女院，交給掌管女子的太監希該，給她們當用的香品。
And let the king appoint officers in all the provinces of his kingdom, that they may gather together all the fair young virgins unto Shushan the palace, to the house of the women, unto the custody of Hege the king's chamberlain, keeper of the women; and let their things for purification be given them:

2:4    王所喜愛的女子可以立為王后，代替瓦實提。王以這事為美，就如此行。
And let the maiden which pleaseth the king be queen instead of Vashti. And the thing pleased the king; and he did so.

2:5    書珊城有一個猶大人，名叫末底改，是便雅憫人基士的曾孫，示每的孫子，睚珥的兒子。
Now in Shushan the palace there was a certain Jew, whose name was Mordecai, the son of Jair, the son of Shimei, the son of Kish, a Benjamite;

2:6    從前巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒，將猶大王耶哥尼雅（又名約雅斤）和百姓從耶路撒冷擄去，末底改也在其內。
Who had been carried away from Jerusalem with the captivity which had been carried away with Jeconiah king of Judah, whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried away.

2:7    末底改撫養他叔叔的女兒哈大沙（後名以斯帖），因為她沒有父母。這女子又容貌俊美，她父母死了，末底改就收她為自己的女兒。
And he brought up Hadassah, that is, Esther, his uncle's daughter: for she had neither father nor mother, and the maid was fair and beautiful; whom Mordecai, when her father and mother were dead, took for his own daughter.

2:8    王的諭旨傳出，就招聚許多女子到書珊城，交給掌管女子的希該。以斯帖也送入王宮，交付希該。
So it came to pass, when the king's commandment and his decree was heard, and when many maidens were gathered together unto Shushan the palace, to the custody of Hegai, that Esther was brought also unto the king's house, to the custody of Hegai, keeper of the women.

2:9    希該喜悅以斯帖，就恩待她。急忙給她需用的香品和她所當得的分，又派所當得的七個宮女服事她，使她和她的宮女搬入女院上好的房屋。
And the maiden pleased him, and she obtained kindness of him; and he speedily gave her her things for purification, with such things as belonged to her, and seven maidens, which were meet to be given her, out of the king's house: and he preferred her and her maids unto the best place of the house of the women.

2:10    以斯帖未曾將籍貫宗族告訴人，因為末底改囑咐她不可叫人知道。
Esther had not shewed her people nor her kindred: for Mordecai had charged her that she should not shew it.

2:11    末底改天天在女院前邊行走，要知道以斯帖平安不平安，並後事如何。
And Mordecai walked every day before the court of the women's house, to know how Esther did, and what should become of her.

2:12    眾女子照例先潔淨身體十二個月。六個月用沒藥油，六個月用香料和潔身之物。滿了日期，然後挨次進去見亞哈隨魯王。
Now when every maid's turn was come to go in to king Ahasuerus, after that she had been twelve months, according to the manner of the women, (for so were the days of their purifications accomplished, to wit, six months with oil of myrrh, and six months with sweet odours, and with other things for the purifying of the women;)

2:13    女子進去見王是這樣。從女院到王宮的時候，凡她所要的都必給她。
Then thus came every maiden unto the king; whatsoever she desired was given her to go with her out of the house of the women unto the king's house.

2:14    晚上進去，次日回到女子第二院，交給掌管妃嬪的太監沙甲。除非王喜愛她，再提名召她，就不再進去見王。
In the evening she went, and on the morrow she returned into the second house of the women, to the custody of Shaashgaz, the king's chamberlain, which kept the concubines: she came in unto the king no more, except the king delighted in her, and that she were called by name.

2:15    末底改叔叔亞比孩的女兒，就是末底改收為自己女兒的以斯帖，按次序當進去見王的時候，除了掌管女子的太監希該所派定給她的，她別無所求。凡看見以斯帖的都喜悅她。
Now when the turn of Esther, the daughter of Abihail the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her for his daughter, was come to go in unto the king, she required nothing but what Hegai the king's chamberlain, the keeper of the women, appointed. And Esther obtained favour in the sight of all them that looked upon her.

2:16    亞哈隨魯王第七年十月，就是提別月，以斯帖被引入宮見王。
So Esther was taken unto king Ahasuerus into his house royal in the tenth month, which is the month Tebeth, in the seventh year of his reign.

2:17    王愛以斯帖過於愛眾女，她在王眼前蒙寵愛比眾處女更甚。王就把王后的冠冕戴在她頭上，立她為王后，代替瓦實提。
And the king loved Esther above all the women, and she obtained grace and favour in his sight more than all the virgins; so that he set the royal crown upon her head, and made her queen instead of Vashti.

2:18    王因以斯帖的緣故給眾首領和臣僕設擺大筵席，又豁免各省的租稅，並照王的厚意大頒賞賜。
Then the king made a great feast unto all his princes and his servants, even Esther's feast; and he made a release to the provinces, and gave gifts, according to the state of the king.

2:19    第二次招聚處女的時候，末底改坐在朝門。
And when the virgins were gathered together the second time, then Mordecai sat in the king's gate.

2:20    以斯帖照著末底改所囑咐的，還沒有將籍貫宗族告訴人。因為以斯帖遵末底改的命，如撫養她的時候一樣。
Esther had not yet shewed her kindred nor her people; as Mordecai had charged her: for Esther did the commandment of Mordecai, like as when she was brought up with him.

2:21    當那時候，末底改坐在朝門，王的太監中有兩個守門的，闢探和提列，惱恨亞哈隨魯王，想要下手害他。
In those days, while Mordecai sat in the king's gate, two of the king's chamberlains, Bigthan and Teresh, of those which kept the door, were wroth, and sought to lay hand on the king Ahasuerus.

2:22    末底改知道了，就告訴王后以斯帖。以斯帖奉末底改的名，報告於王。
And the thing was known to Mordecai, who told it unto Esther the queen; and Esther certified the king thereof in Mordecai's name.

2:23    究察這事，果然是實，就把二人掛在木頭上，將這事在王面前寫於歷史上。
And when inquisition was made of the matter, it was found out; therefore they were both hanged on a tree: and it was written in the book of the chronicles before the king.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


3:1    這事以後，亞哈隨魯王抬舉，亞甲族哈米大他的兒子哈曼，使他高升，叫他的爵位超過與他同事的一切臣宰。
After these things did king Ahasuerus promote Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, and advanced him, and set his seat above all the princes that were with him.

3:2    在朝門的一切臣僕都跪拜哈曼，因為王如此吩咐。惟獨末底改不跪不拜。
And all the king's servants, that were in the king's gate, bowed, and reverenced Haman: for the king had so commanded concerning him. But Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence.

3:3    在朝門的臣僕問末底改說，你為何違背王的命令呢。
Then the king's servants, which were in the king's gate, said unto Mordecai, Why transgressest thou the king's commandment?

3:4    他們天天勸他，他還是不聽，他們就告訴哈曼，要看末底改的事站得住站不住，因他已經告訴他們自己是猶大人。
Now it came to pass, when they spake daily unto him, and he hearkened not unto them, that they told Haman, to see whether Mordecai's matters would stand: for he had told them that he was a Jew.

3:5    哈曼見末底改不跪不拜，他就怒氣填胸。
And when Haman saw that Mordecai bowed not, nor did him reverence, then was Haman full of wrath.

3:6    他們已將末底改的本族告訴哈曼。他以為下手害末底改一人是小事，就要滅絕亞哈隨魯王通國所有的猶大人，就是末底改的本族。
And he thought scorn to lay hands on Mordecai alone; for they had shewed him the people of Mordecai: wherefore Haman sought to destroy all the Jews that were throughout the whole kingdom of Ahasuerus, even the people of Mordecai.

3:7    亞哈隨魯王十二年正月，就是尼散月，人在哈曼面前，按日日月月掣普珥，就是掣籤，要定何月何日為吉，擇定了十二月，就是亞達月。
In the first month, that is, the month Nisan, in the twelfth year of king Ahasuerus, they cast Pur, that is, the lot, before Haman from day to day, and from month to month, to the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar.

3:8    哈曼對亞哈隨魯王說，有一種民，散居在王國各省的民中，他們的律例與萬民的律例不同，也不守王的律例，所以容留他們與王無益。
And Haman said unto king Ahasuerus, There is a certain people scattered abroad and dispersed among the people in all the provinces of thy kingdom; and their laws are diverse from all people; neither keep they the king's laws: therefore it is not for the king's profit to suffer them.

3:9    王若以為美，請下旨意滅絕他們。我就捐一萬他連得銀子交給掌管國帑的人，納入王的府庫。
If it please the king, let it be written that they may be destroyed: and I will pay ten thousand talents of silver to the hands of those that have the charge of the business, to bring it into the king's treasuries.

3:10    於是王從自己手上摘下戒指，給猶大人的仇敵亞甲族哈米大他的兒子哈曼。
And the king took his ring from his hand, and gave it unto Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, the Jews' enemy.

3:11    王對哈曼說，這銀子仍賜給你，這民也交給你，你可以隨意待他們。
And the king said unto Haman, The silver is given to thee, the people also, to do with them as it seemeth good to thee.

3:12    正月十三日，就召了王的書記來，照著哈曼一切所吩咐的，用各省的文字，各族的方言，奉亞哈隨魯王的名寫旨意，傳與總督和各省的省長，並各族的首領。又用王的戒指蓋印。
Then were the king's scribes called on the thirteenth day of the first month, and there was written according to all that Haman had commanded unto the king's lieutenants, and to the governors that were over every province, and to the rulers of every people of every province according to the writing thereof, and to every people after their language; in the name of king Ahasuerus was it written, and sealed with the king's ring.

3:13    交給驛卒傳到王的各省，吩咐將猶大人，無論老少婦女孩子，在一日之間，十二月，就是亞達月十三日，全然剪除，殺戮滅絕，並奪他們的財為掠物。
And the letters were sent by posts into all the king's provinces, to destroy, to kill, and to cause to perish, all Jews, both young and old, little children and women, in one day, even upon the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar, and to take the spoil of them for a prey.

3:14    抄錄這旨意，頒行各省，宣告各族，使他們預備等候那日。
The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every province was published unto all people, that they should be ready against that day.

3:15    驛卒奉王命急忙起行，旨意也傳遍書珊城。王同哈曼坐下飲酒，書珊城的民卻都慌亂。
The posts went out, being hastened by the king's commandment, and the decree was given in Shushan the palace. And the king and Haman sat down to drink; but the city Shushan was perplexed.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


4:1    末底改知道所做的這一切事，就撕裂衣服，穿麻衣，蒙灰塵，在城中行走，痛哭哀號。
When Mordecai perceived all that was done, Mordecai rent his clothes, and put on sackcloth with ashes, and went out into the midst of the city, and cried with a loud and a bitter cry;

4:2    到了朝門前停住腳步，因為穿麻衣的不可進朝門。
And came even before the king's gate: for none might enter into the king's gate clothed with sackcloth.

4:3    王的諭旨所到的各省各處，猶大人大大悲哀，禁食哭泣哀號，穿麻衣躺在灰中的甚多。
And in every province, whithersoever the king's commandment and his decree came, there was great mourning among the Jews, and fasting, and weeping, and wailing; and many lay in sackcloth and ashes.

4:4    王后以斯帖的宮女和太監來把這事告訴以斯帖，她甚是憂愁，就送衣服給末底改穿，要他脫下麻衣，他卻不受。
So Esther's maids and her chamberlains came and told it her. Then was the queen exceedingly grieved; and she sent raiment to clothe Mordecai, and to take away his sackcloth from him: but he received it not.

4:5    以斯帖就把王所派伺候她的一個太監，名叫哈他革召來，吩咐他去見末底改，要知道這是什麼事，是什麼緣故。
Then called Esther for Hatach, one of the king's chamberlains, whom he had appointed to attend upon her, and gave him a commandment to Mordecai, to know what it was, and why it was.

4:6    於是哈他革出到朝門前的寬闊處見末底改。
So Hatach went forth to Mordecai unto the street of the city, which was before the king's gate.

4:7    末底改將自己所遇的拭，並哈曼為滅絕猶大人，應許捐入王庫的銀數都告訴了他。
And Mordecai told him of all that had happened unto him, and of the sum of the money that Haman had promised to pay to the king's treasuries for the Jews, to destroy them.

4:8    又將所抄寫傳遍書珊城，要滅絕猶大人的旨意交給哈他革，要給以斯帖看，又要給她說明，並囑咐她進去見王，為本族的人在王面前懇切祈求。
Also he gave him the copy of the writing of the decree that was given at Shushan to destroy them, to shew it unto Esther, and to declare it unto her, and to charge her that she should go in unto the king, to make supplication unto him, and to make request before him for her people.

4:9    哈他革回來，將末底改的話告訴以斯帖。
And Hatach came and told Esther the words of Mordecai.

4:10    以斯帖就吩咐哈他革去見末底改，說，
Again Esther spake unto Hatach, and gave him commandment unto Mordecai;

4:11    王的一切臣僕和各省的人民，都知道有一個定例，若不蒙召，擅入內院見王的，無論男女必被治死。除非王向他伸出金杖，不得存活。現在我沒有蒙召進去見王已經三十日了。
All the king's servants, and the people of the king's provinces, do know, that whosoever, whether man or woman, shall come unto the king into the inner court, who is not called, there is one law of his to put him to death, except such to whom the king shall hold out the golden sceptre, that he may live: but I have not been called to come in unto the king these thirty days.

4:12    人就把以斯帖這話告訴末底改。
And they told to Mordecai Esther's words.

4:13    末底改託人回覆以斯帖說，你莫想在王宮裡強過一切猶大人，得免這禍。
Then Mordecai commanded to answer Esther, Think not with thyself that thou shalt escape in the king's house, more than all the Jews.

4:14    此時你若閉口不言，猶大人必從別處得解脫，蒙拯救，你和你父家，必至滅亡。焉知你得了王后的位分，不是為現今的機會嗎。
For if thou altogether holdest thy peace at this time, then shall there enlargement and deliverance arise to the Jews from another place; but thou and thy father's house shall be destroyed: and who knoweth whether thou art come to the kingdom for such a time as this?

4:15    以斯帖就吩咐人回報末底改說，
Then Esther bade them return Mordecai this answer,

4:16    你當去招聚書珊城所有的猶大人，為我禁食三晝三夜，不吃不喝。我和我的宮女也要這樣禁食。然後我違例進去見王，我若死就死吧。
Go, gather together all the Jews that are present in Shushan, and fast ye for me, and neither eat nor drink three days, night or day: I also and my maidens will fast likewise; and so will I go in unto the king, which is not according to the law: and if I perish, I perish.

4:17    於是末底改照以斯帖一切所吩咐的去行。
So Mordecai went his way, and did according to all that Esther had commanded him.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


5:1    第三日，以斯帖穿上朝服，進王宮的內院，對殿站立。王在殿裡坐在寶座上，對著殿門。
Now it came to pass on the third day, that Esther put on her royal apparel, and stood in the inner court of the king's house, over against the king's house: and the king sat upon his royal throne in the royal house, over against the gate of the house.

5:2    王見王后以斯帖站在院內，就施恩於她，向她伸出手中的金杖，以斯帖便向前摸杖頭。
And it was so, when the king saw Esther the queen standing in the court, that she obtained favour in his sight: and the king held out to Esther the golden sceptre that was in his hand. So Esther drew near, and touched the top of the sceptre.

5:3    王對她說，王后以斯帖阿，你要什麼。你求什麼，就是國的一半也必賜給你。
Then said the king unto her, What wilt thou, queen Esther? and what is thy request? it shall be even given thee to the half of the kingdom.

5:4    以斯帖說，王若以為美，就請王帶著哈曼，今日赴我所預備的筵席。
And Esther answered, If it seem good unto the king, let the king and Haman come this day unto the banquet that I have prepared for him.

5:5    王說，叫哈曼速速照以斯帖的話去行。於是王帶著哈曼赴以斯帖所預備的筵席。
Then the king said, Cause Haman to make haste, that he may do as Esther hath said. So the king and Haman came to the banquet that Esther had prepared.

5:6    在酒席筵前，王又問以斯帖說，你要什麼，我必賜給你。你求什麼，就是國的一半也必為你成就。
And the king said unto Esther at the banquet of wine, What is thy petition? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? even to the half of the kingdom it shall be performed.

5:7    以斯帖回答說，我有所要，我有所求。
Then answered Esther, and said, My petition and my request is;



5:8    我若在王眼前蒙恩，王若願意賜我所要的，準我所求的，就請王帶著哈曼，再赴我所要預備的筵席。明日我必照王所問的說明。
If I have found favour in the sight of the king, and if it please the king to grant my petition, and to perform my request, let the king and Haman come to the banquet that I shall prepare for them, and I will do to morrow as the king hath said.

5:9    那日哈曼心中快樂，歡歡喜喜地出來。但見末底改在朝門不站起來，連身也不動，就滿心惱怒末底改。
Then went Haman forth that day joyful and with a glad heart: but when Haman saw Mordecai in the king's gate, that he stood not up, nor moved for him, he was full of indignation against Mordecai.

5:10    哈曼暫且忍耐回家，叫人請他朋友和他妻子細利斯來。
Nevertheless Haman refrained himself: and when he came home, he sent and called for his friends, and Zeresh his wife.

5:11    哈曼將他富厚的榮耀，眾多的兒女，和王抬舉他使他超乎首領臣僕之上，都述說給他們聽。
And Haman told them of the glory of his riches, and the multitude of his children, and all the things wherein the king had promoted him, and how he had advanced him above the princes and servants of the king.

5:12    哈曼又說，王后以斯帖預備筵席，除了我之外不許別人隨王赴席。明日王后又請我隨王赴席。
Haman said moreover, Yea, Esther the queen did let no man come in with the king unto the banquet that she had prepared but myself; and to morrow am I invited unto her also with the king.

5:13    只是我見猶大人末底改坐在朝門，雖有這一切榮耀，也與我無益。
Yet all this availeth me nothing, so long as I see Mordecai the Jew sitting at the king's gate.

5:14    他的妻細利斯和他一切的朋友對他說，不如立一個五丈高的木架，明早求王將末底改掛在其上，然後你可以歡歡喜喜地隨王赴席。哈曼以這話為美，就叫人做了木架。
Then said Zeresh his wife and all his friends unto him, Let a gallows be made of fifty cubits high, and to morrow speak thou unto the king that Mordecai may be hanged thereon: then go thou in merrily with the king unto the banquet. And the thing pleased Haman; and he caused the gallows to be made.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


6:1    那夜王睡不著覺，就吩咐人取歷史來，念給他聽。
On that night could not the king sleep, and he commanded to bring the book of records of the chronicles; and they were read before the king.

6:2    正遇見書上寫著說，王的太監中有兩個守門的，闢探和提列，想要下手害亞哈隨魯王，末底改將這事告訴王后。
And it was found written, that Mordecai had told of Bigthana and Teresh, two of the king's chamberlains, the keepers of the door, who sought to lay hand on the king Ahasuerus.

6:3    王說，末底改行了這事，賜他什麼尊榮爵位沒有。伺候王的臣僕回答說，沒有賜他什麼。
And the king said, What honour and dignity hath been done to Mordecai for this? Then said the king's servants that ministered unto him, There is nothing done for him.

6:4    王說，誰在院子裡。（那時哈曼正進王宮的外院，要求王將末底改掛在他所預備的木架上
And the king said, Who is in the court? Now Haman was come into the outward court of the king's house, to speak unto the king to hang Mordecai on the gallows that he had prepared for him.

6:5    臣僕說，哈曼站在院內。王說，叫他進來。
And the king's servants said unto him, Behold, Haman standeth in the court. And the king said, Let him come in.

6:6    哈曼就進去。王問他說，王所喜悅尊榮的人，當如何待他呢。哈曼心裡說，王所喜悅尊榮的，不是我是誰呢。
So Haman came in. And the king said unto him, What shall be done unto the man whom the king delighteth to honour? Now Haman thought in his heart, To whom would the king delight to do honour more than to myself?

6:7    哈曼就回答說，王所喜悅尊榮的人，
And Haman answered the king, For the man whom the king delighteth to honour,

6:8    當將王常穿的朝服和戴冠的御馬，
Let the royal apparel be brought which the king useth to wear, and the horse that the king rideth upon, and the crown royal which is set upon his head:

6:9    都交給王極尊貴的一個大臣，命他將衣服給王所喜悅尊榮的人穿上，使他騎上馬，走遍城裡的街市，在他面前宣告說，王所喜悅尊榮的人，就如此待他。
And let this apparel and horse be delivered to the hand of one of the king's most noble princes, that they may array the man withal whom the king delighteth to honour, and bring him on horseback through the street of the city, and proclaim before him, Thus shall it be done to the man whom the king delighteth to honour.

6:10    王對哈曼說，你速速將這衣服和馬，照你所說的，向坐在朝門的猶大人末底改去行。凡你所說的，一樣不可缺。
Then the king said to Haman, Make haste, and take the apparel and the horse, as thou hast said, and do even so to Mordecai the Jew, that sitteth at the king's gate: let nothing fail of all that thou hast spoken.

6:11    於是哈曼將朝服給末底改穿上，使他騎上馬，走遍城裡的街市，在他面前宣告說，王所喜悅尊榮的人，就如此待他。
Then took Haman the apparel and the horse, and arrayed Mordecai, and brought him on horseback through the street of the city, and proclaimed before him, Thus shall it be done unto the man whom the king delighteth to honour.



6:12    末底改仍回到朝門，哈曼卻憂憂悶悶地蒙著頭，急忙回家去了。
And Mordecai came again to the king's gate. But Haman hasted to his house mourning, and having his head covered.

6:13    將所遇的一切事，詳細說給他的妻細利斯，和他的眾朋友聽。他的智慧人，和他的妻細利斯對他說，你在末底改面前始而敗落，他如果是猶大人，你必不能勝他，終必在他面前敗落。
And Haman told Zeresh his wife and all his friends every thing that had befallen him. Then said his wise men and Zeresh his wife unto him, If Mordecai be of the seed of the Jews, before whom thou hast begun to fall, thou shalt not prevail against him, but shalt surely fall before him.

6:14    他們還與哈曼說話的時候，王的太監來催哈曼，快去赴以斯帖所預備的筵席。
And while they were yet talking with him, came the king's chamberlains, and hasted to bring Haman unto the banquet that Esther had prepared.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


7:1    王帶著哈曼來赴王后以斯帖的筵席。
So the king and Haman came to banquet with Esther the queen.

7:2    這第二次在酒席筵前，王又問以斯帖說，王后以斯帖阿，你要什麼，我必賜給你。你求什麼，就是國的一半也必為你成就。
And the king said again unto Esther on the second day at the banquet of wine, What is thy petition, queen Esther? and it shall be granted thee: and what is thy request? and it shall be performed, even to the half of the kingdom.

7:3    王后以斯帖回答說，我若在王眼前蒙恩，王若以為美，我所願的，是願王將我的性命賜給我。我所求的，是求王將我的本族賜給我。
Then Esther the queen answered and said, If I have found favour in thy sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be given me at my petition, and my people at my request:

7:4    因我和我的本族被賣了，要剪除殺戮滅絕我們。我們若被賣為奴為婢，我也閉口不言。但王的損失，敵人萬不能補足。
For we are sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be slain, and to perish. But if we had been sold for bondmen and bondwomen, I had held my tongue, although the enemy could not countervail the king's damage.

7:5    亞哈隨魯王問王后以斯帖說，擅敢起意如此行的是誰。這人在哪裡呢。
Then the king Ahasuerus answered and said unto Esther the queen, Who is he, and where is he, that durst presume in his heart to do so?

7:6    以斯帖說，仇人敵人就是這惡人哈曼。哈曼在王和王后面前就甚驚惶。
And Esther said, The adversary and enemy is this wicked Haman. Then Haman was afraid before the king and the queen.

7:7    王便大怒，起來離開酒席往御園去了。哈曼見王定意要加罪與他，就起來，求王后以斯帖救命。
And the king arising from the banquet of wine in his wrath went into the palace garden: and Haman stood up to make request for his life to Esther the queen; for he saw that there was evil determined against him by the king.

7:8    王從御園回到酒席之處，見哈曼伏在以斯帖所靠的榻上。王說，他竟敢在宮內，在我面前凌辱王后嗎。這話一出王口，人就蒙了哈曼的臉。
Then the king returned out of the palace garden into the place of the banquet of wine; and Haman was fallen upon the bed whereon Esther was. Then said the king, Will he force the queen also before me in the house? As the word went out of the king's mouth, they covered Haman's face.

7:9    伺候王的一個太監名叫哈波拿，說，哈曼為那救王有功的末底改做了五丈高的木架，現今立在哈曼家裡。王說，把哈曼掛在其上。
And Harbonah, one of the chamberlains, said before the king, Behold also, the gallows fifty cubits high, which Haman had made for Mordecai, who had spoken good for the king, standeth in the house of Haman. Then the king said, Hang him thereon.

7:10    於是人將哈曼掛在他為末底改所預備的木架上。王的忿怒這才止息。
So they hanged Haman on the gallows that he had prepared for Mordecai. Then was the king's wrath pacified.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


8:1    當日，亞哈隨魯王把猶大人仇敵哈曼的家產，賜給王后以斯帖。末底改也來到王面前，因為以斯帖已經告訴王，末底改是她的親屬。
On that day did the king Ahasuerus give the house of Haman the Jews' enemy unto Esther the queen. And Mordecai came before the king; for Esther had told what he was unto her.

8:2    王摘下自己的戒指，就是從哈曼追回的，給了末底改。以斯帖派末底改管理哈曼的家產。
And the king took off his ring, which he had taken from Haman, and gave it unto Mordecai. And Esther set Mordecai over the house of Haman.

8:3    以斯帖又俯伏在王腳前，流淚哀告，求他除掉亞甲族哈曼害猶大人的惡謀。
And Esther spake yet again before the king, and fell down at his feet, and besought him with tears to put away the mischief of Haman the Agagite, and his device that he had devised against the Jews.

8:4    王向以斯帖伸出金杖，以斯帖就起來，站在王前。
Then the king held out the golden sceptre toward Esther. So Esther arose, and stood before the king,

8:5    說，亞甲族哈米大他的兒子哈曼設謀傳旨，要殺滅在王各省的猶大人。現今王若願意，我若在王眼前蒙恩，王若以為美，若喜悅我，請王另下旨意，廢除哈曼所傳的那旨意。
And said, If it please the king, and if I have found favour in his sight, and the thing seem right before the king, and I be pleasing in his eyes, let it be written to reverse the letters devised by Haman the son of Hammedatha the Agagite, which he wrote to destroy the Jews which are in all the king's provinces:

8:6    我何忍見我本族的人受害。何忍見我同宗的人被滅呢。
For how can I endure to see the evil that shall come unto my people? or how can I endure to see the destruction of my kindred?

8:7    亞哈隨魯王對王后以斯帖，和猶大人末底改說，因哈曼要下手害猶大人，我已將他的家產賜給以斯帖，人也將哈曼掛在木架上。
Then the king Ahasuerus said unto Esther the queen and to Mordecai the Jew, Behold, I have given Esther the house of Haman, and him they have hanged upon the gallows, because he laid his hand upon the Jews.

8:8    現在你們可以隨意，奉王的名寫諭旨給猶大人，用王的戒指蓋印。因為奉王名所寫，用王戒指蓋印的諭旨，人都不能廢除。
Write ye also for the Jews, as it liketh you, in the king's name, and seal it with the king's ring: for the writing which is written in the king's name, and sealed with the king's ring, may no man reverse.

8:9    三月，就是西彎月二十三日，將王的書記召來。按著末底改所吩咐的，用各省的文字，各族的方言，並猶大人的文字方言寫諭旨。傳給那從印度直到古實一百二十七省的猶大人和總督省長首領。
Then were the king's scribes called at that time in the third month, that is, the month Sivan, on the three and twentieth day thereof; and it was written according to all that Mordecai commanded unto the Jews, and to the lieutenants, and the deputies and rulers of the provinces which are from India unto Ethiopia, an hundred twenty and seven provinces, unto every province according to the writing thereof, and unto every people after their language, and to the Jews according to their writing, and according to their language.

8:10    末底改奉亞哈隨魯王的名寫諭旨，用王的戒指蓋印，交給騎御馬圈快馬的驛卒，傳到各處。
And he wrote in the king Ahasuerus' name, and sealed it with the king's ring, and sent letters by posts on horseback, and riders on mules, camels, and young dromedaries:

8:11    諭旨中，王準各省各城的猶大人在一日之間，十二月，就是亞達月十三日，聚集保護性命，
Wherein the king granted the Jews which were in every city to gather themselves together, and to stand for their life, to destroy, to slay, and to cause to perish, all the power of the people and province that would assault them, both little ones and women, and to take the spoil of them for a prey,

8:12    剪除殺戮滅絕那要攻擊猶大人的一切仇敵，和他們的妻子兒女，奪取他們的財為掠物。
Upon one day in all the provinces of king Ahasuerus, namely, upon the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month Adar.

8:13    抄錄這諭旨，頒行各省，宣告各族，使猶大人預備等候那日，在仇敵身上報仇。
The copy of the writing for a commandment to be given in every province was published unto all people, and that the Jews should be ready against that day to avenge themselves on their enemies.

8:14    於是騎快馬的驛卒被王命催促，急忙起行。諭旨也傳遍書珊城。
So the posts that rode upon mules and camels went out, being hastened and pressed on by the king's commandment. And the decree was given at Shushan the palace.

8:15    末底改穿著藍色白色的朝服，頭戴大金冠冕，又穿紫色細麻布的外袍，從王面前出來。書珊城的人民都歡呼快樂。
And Mordecai went out from the presence of the king in royal apparel of blue and white, and with a great crown of gold, and with a garment of fine linen and purple: and the city of Shushan rejoiced and was glad.

8:16    猶大人有光榮，歡喜快樂而得尊貴。
The Jews had light, and gladness, and joy, and honour.

8:17    王的諭旨所到的各省各城，猶大人都歡喜快樂，設擺筵宴，以那日為吉日。那國的人民，有許多因懼怕猶大人，就入了猶大籍。
And in every province, and in every city, whithersoever the king's commandment and his decree came, the Jews had joy and gladness, a feast and a good day. And many of the people of the land became Jews; for the fear of the Jews fell upon them.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


9:1    十二月，乃亞達月十三日，王的諭旨將要舉行，就是猶大人的仇敵盼望轄制他們的日子，猶大人反倒轄制恨他們的人。
Now in the twelfth month, that is, the month Adar, on the thirteenth day of the same, when the king's commandment and his decree drew near to be put in execution, in the day that the enemies of the Jews hoped to have power over them, (though it was turned to the contrary, that the Jews had rule over them that hated them;)

9:2    猶大人在亞哈隨魯王各省的城裡聚集，下手擊殺那要害他們的人。無人能敵擋他們，因為各族都懼怕他們。
The Jews gathered themselves together in their cities throughout all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, to lay hand on such as sought their hurt: and no man could withstand them; for the fear of them fell upon all people.

9:3    各省的首領，總督，省長，和辦理王事的人，因懼怕末底改，就都幫助猶大人。
And all the rulers of the provinces, and the lieutenants, and the deputies, and officers of the king, helped the Jews; because the fear of Mordecai fell upon them.

9:4    末底改在朝中為大，名聲傳遍各省，日漸昌盛。
For Mordecai was great in the king's house, and his fame went out throughout all the provinces: for this man Mordecai waxed greater and greater.

9:5    猶大人用刀擊殺一切仇敵，任意殺滅恨他們的人。
Thus the Jews smote all their enemies with the stroke of the sword, and slaughter, and destruction, and did what they would unto those that hated them.

9:6    在書珊城，猶大人殺滅了五百人。
And in Shushan the palace the Jews slew and destroyed five hundred men.

9:7    又殺巴珊大他，達分，亞斯帕他，
And Parshandatha, and Dalphon, and Aspatha,

9:8    破拉他，亞大利雅，亞利大他，
And Poratha, and Adalia, and Aridatha,

9:9    帕瑪斯他，亞利賽，亞利代，瓦耶撒他。
And Parmashta, and Arisai, and Aridai, and Vajezatha,

9:10    這十人都是哈米大他的孫子，猶大人仇敵哈曼的兒子。猶大人卻沒有下手奪取財物。
The ten sons of Haman the son of Hammedatha, the enemy of the Jews, slew they; but on the spoil laid they not their hand.

9:11    當日，將書珊城被殺的人數呈在王前。
On that day the number of those that were slain in Shushan the palace was brought before the king.

9:12    王對王后以斯帖說，猶大人在書珊城殺滅了五百人，又殺了哈曼的十個兒子，在王各省不知如何呢。現在你要什麼，我必賜給你。你還求什麼，也必為你成就。
And the king said unto Esther the queen, The Jews have slain and destroyed five hundred men in Shushan the palace, and the ten sons of Haman; what have they done in the rest of the king's provinces? now what is thy petition? and it shall be granted thee: or what is thy request further? and it shall be done.

9:13    以斯帖說，王若以為美，求你準書珊的猶大人，明日也照今日的旨意行，並將哈曼十個兒子的屍首掛在木架上。
Then said Esther, If it please the king, let it be granted to the Jews which are in Shushan to do to morrow also according unto this day's decree, and let Haman's ten sons be hanged upon the gallows.

9:14    王便允准如此行。旨意傳在書珊，人就把哈曼十個兒子的屍首掛起來了。
And the king commanded it so to be done: and the decree was given at Shushan; and they hanged Haman's ten sons.

9:15    亞達月十四日書珊的猶大人又聚集在書珊，殺了三百人，卻沒有下手奪取財物。
For the Jews that were in Shushan gathered themselves together on the fourteenth day also of the month Adar, and slew three hundred men at Shushan; but on the prey they laid not their hand.

9:16    在王各省其餘的猶大人，也都聚集保護性命，殺了恨他們的人七萬五千，卻沒有下手奪取財物。這樣，就脫離仇敵，得享平安。
But the other Jews that were in the king's provinces gathered themselves together, and stood for their lives, and had rest from their enemies, and slew of their foes seventy and five thousand, but they laid not their hands on the prey,

9:17    亞達月十三日，行了這事。十四日安息，以這日為設筵歡樂的日子。
On the thirteenth day of the month Adar; and on the fourteenth day of the same rested they, and made it a day of feasting and gladness.

9:18    但書珊的猶大人，這十三日，十四日聚集殺戮仇敵。十五日安息，以這日為設筵歡樂的日子。
But the Jews that were at Shushan assembled together on the thirteenth day thereof, and on the fourteenth thereof; and on the fifteenth day of the same they rested, and made it a day of feasting and gladness.

9:19    所以住無城牆鄉村的猶大人，如今都以亞達月十四日為設筵歡樂的吉日，彼此饋送禮物。
Therefore the Jews of the villages, that dwelt in the unwalled towns, made the fourteenth day of the month Adar a day of gladness and feasting, and a good day, and of sending portions one to another.

9:20    末底改記錄這事，寫信與亞哈隨魯王各省遠近所有的猶大人，
And Mordecai wrote these things, and sent letters unto all the Jews that were in all the provinces of the king Ahasuerus, both nigh and far,

9:21    囑咐他們每年守亞達月十四，十五兩日。
To stablish this among them, that they should keep the fourteenth day of the month Adar, and the fifteenth day of the same, yearly,

9:22    以這月的兩日為猶大人脫離仇敵得平安，轉憂為喜，轉悲為樂的吉日。在這兩日設筵歡樂，彼此饋送禮物，賙濟窮人。
As the days wherein the Jews rested from their enemies, and the month which was turned unto them from sorrow to joy, and from mourning into a good day: that they should make them days of feasting and joy, and of sending portions one to another, and gifts to the poor.

9:23    於是，猶大人按著末底改所寫與他們的信，應承照初次所守的守為永例。
And the Jews undertook to do as they had begun, and as Mordecai had written unto them;

9:24    是因猶大人的仇敵，亞甲族哈米大他的兒子哈曼，設謀殺害猶大人，掣普珥，是掣籤，為要殺盡滅絕他們。
Because Haman the son of Hammedatha, the Agagite, the enemy of all the Jews, had devised against the Jews to destroy them, and had cast Pur, that is, the lot, to consume them, and to destroy them;

9:25    這事報告於王，王便降旨使哈曼謀害猶大人的惡事，歸到他自己的頭上，並吩咐把他和他的眾子都掛在木架上。
But when Esther came before the king, he commanded by letters that his wicked device, which he devised against the Jews, should return upon his own head, and that he and his sons should be hanged on the gallows.

9:26    照著普珥的名字，猶大人就稱這兩日為普珥日。他們因這信上的話，又因所看見所遇見的事，
Wherefore they called these days Purim after the name of Pur. Therefore for all the words of this letter, and of that which they had seen concerning this matter, and which had come unto them,

9:27    就應承自己與後裔，並歸附他們的人，每年按時必守這兩日，永遠不廢。
The Jews ordained, and took upon them, and upon their seed, and upon all such as joined themselves unto them, so as it should not fail, that they would keep these two days according to their writing, and according to their appointed time every year;

9:28    各省各城，家家戶戶，世世代代紀念遵守這兩日，使這普珥日在猶大人中不可廢掉，在他們後裔中也不可忘記。
And that these days should be remembered and kept throughout every generation, every family, every province, and every city; and that these days of Purim should not fail from among the Jews, nor the memorial of them perish from their seed.



9:29    亞比孩的女兒王后以斯帖，和猶大人末底改以全權寫第二封信，堅囑猶大人守這普珥日。
Then Esther the queen, the daughter of Abihail, and Mordecai the Jew, wrote with all authority, to confirm this second letter of Purim.

9:30    用和平誠實話，寫信給亞哈隨魯王國中，一百二十七省所有的猶大人，
And he sent the letters unto all the Jews, to the hundred twenty and seven provinces of the kingdom of Ahasuerus, with words of peace and truth,

9:31    勸他們按時守這普珥日，禁食呼求，是照猶大人末底改，和王后以斯帖，所囑咐的。也照猶大人為自己與後裔所應承的。
To confirm these days of Purim in their times appointed, according as Mordecai the Jew and Esther the queen had enjoined them, and as they had decreed for themselves and for their seed, the matters of the fastings and their cry.

9:32    以斯帖命定守普珥日，這事也記錄在書上。
And the decree of Esther confirmed these matters of Purim; and it was written in the book.




舊約 -- 以斯帖記(Esther) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 10 章 )    　


10:1    亞哈隨魯王使旱地，和海島的人民都進貢。
And the king Ahasuerus laid a tribute upon the land, and upon the isles of the sea.

10:2    他以權柄能力所行的，並他抬舉末底改使他高升的事，豈不都寫在瑪代，和波斯王的歷史上嗎。
And all the acts of his power and of his might, and the declaration of the greatness of Mordecai, whereunto the king advanced him, are they not written in the book of the chronicles of the kings of Media and Persia?

10:3    猶大人末底改作亞哈隨魯王的宰相，在猶大人中為大，得他眾弟兄的喜悅，為本族的人求好處，向他們說和平的話。
For Mordecai the Jew was next unto king Ahasuerus, and great among the Jews, and accepted of the multitude of his brethren, seeking the wealth of his people, and speaking peace to all his seed.




