

舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


1:1    烏斯地有一個人名叫約伯。那人完全正直，敬畏神，遠離惡事。
There was a man in the land of Uz, whose name was Job; and that man was perfect and upright, and one that feared God, and eschewed evil.

1:2    他生了七個兒子，三個女兒。
And there were born unto him seven sons and three daughters.

1:3    他的家產有七千羊，三千駱駝，五百對牛，五百母驢，並有許多僕婢。這人在東方人中就為至大。
His substance also was seven thousand sheep, and three thousand camels, and five hundred yoke of oxen, and five hundred she asses, and a very great household; so that this man was the greatest of all the men of the east.

1:4    他的兒子，按著日子，各在自己家裡設擺筵宴，就打發人去，請了他們的三個姊妹來，與他們一同吃喝，
And his sons went and feasted in their houses, every one his day; and sent and called for their three sisters to eat and to drink with them.

1:5    筵宴的日子過了，約伯打發人去叫他們自潔。他清早起來，按著他們眾人的數目獻燔祭。因為他說，恐怕我兒子犯了罪，心中棄掉神。約伯常常這樣行。
And it was so, when the days of their feasting were gone about, that Job sent and sanctified them, and rose up early in the morning, and offered burnt offerings according to the number of them all: for Job said, It may be that my sons have sinned, and cursed God in their hearts. Thus did Job continually.

1:6    有一天，神的眾子，來侍立在耶和華面前，撒但也來在其中。
Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them.

1:7    耶和華問撒但說，你從那裡來。撒但回答說，我從地上走來走去，往返而來。
And the LORD said unto Satan, Whence comest thou? Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.

1:8    耶和華問撒但說，你曾用心察看我的僕人約伯沒有。地上再沒有人像他完全正直，敬畏神，遠離惡事。
And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil?

1:9    撒但回答耶和華說，約伯敬畏神，豈是無故呢。
Then Satan answered the LORD, and said, Doth Job fear God for nought?

1:10    你豈不是四面圈上籬笆，圍護他和他的家，並他一切所有的嗎。他手所做的都蒙你賜福。他的家產也在地上增多。
Hast not thou made an hedge about him, and about his house, and about all that he hath on every side? thou hast blessed the work of his hands, and his substance is increased in the land.

1:11    你且伸手毀他一切所有的。他必當面棄掉你。
But put forth thine hand now, and touch all that he hath, and he will curse thee to thy face.

1:12    耶和華對撒但說，凡他所有的都在你手中。只是不可伸手加害於他。於是撒但從耶和華面前退去。
And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, all that he hath is in thy power; only upon himself put not forth thine hand. So Satan went forth from the presence of the LORD.

1:13    有一天，約伯的兒女正在他們長兄的家裡，吃飯喝酒，
And there was a day when his sons and his daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house:

1:14    有報信的來見約伯，說，牛正耕地，驢在旁邊吃草。
And there came a messenger unto Job, and said, The oxen were plowing, and the asses feeding beside them:

1:15    示巴人忽然闖來，把牲畜擄去，並用刀殺了僕人。惟有我一人逃脫，來報信給你。
And the Sabeans fell upon them, and took them away; yea, they have slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

1:16    他還說話的時候，又有人來說，神從天上降下火來，將群羊和僕人都燒滅了。惟有我一人逃脫，來報信給你。
While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The fire of God is fallen from heaven, and hath burned up the sheep, and the servants, and consumed them; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

1:17    他還說話的時候，又有人來說，迦勒底人分作三隊忽然闖來，把駱駝擄去，並用刀殺了僕人。惟有我一人逃脫，來報信給你。
While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, The Chaldeans made out three bands, and fell upon the camels, and have carried them away, yea, and slain the servants with the edge of the sword; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

1:18    他還說話的時候，又有人來說，你的兒女正在他們長兄的家裡吃飯喝酒。
While he was yet speaking, there came also another, and said, Thy sons and thy daughters were eating and drinking wine in their eldest brother's house:

1:19    不料，有狂風從曠野刮來，擊打房屋的四角，房屋倒塌在少年人身上，他們就都死了。惟有我一人逃脫，來報信給你。
And, behold, there came a great wind from the wilderness, and smote the four corners of the house, and it fell upon the young men, and they are dead; and I only am escaped alone to tell thee.

1:20    約伯便起來，撕裂外袍，剃了頭，伏在地上下拜。
Then Job arose, and rent his mantle, and shaved his head, and fell down upon the ground, and worshipped,

1:21    說，我赤身出於母胎，也必赤身歸回。賞賜的是耶和華，收取的也是耶和華。耶和華的名是應當稱頌的。
And said, Naked came I out of my mother's womb, and naked shall I return thither: the LORD gave, and the LORD hath taken away; blessed be the name of the LORD.

1:22    在這一切的事上約伯並不犯罪，也不以神為愚妄（或作也不妄評神）。
In all this Job sinned not, nor charged God foolishly.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


2:1    又有一天，神的眾子來侍立在耶和華面前，撒但也來在其中。
Again there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the LORD, and Satan came also among them to present himself before the LORD.

2:2    耶和華問撒但說，你從那裡來。撒但回答說，我從地上走來走去，往返而來。
And the LORD said unto Satan, From whence comest thou? And Satan answered the LORD, and said, From going to and fro in the earth, and from walking up and down in it.

2:3    耶和華問撒但說，你曾用心察看我的僕人約伯沒有。地上再沒有人像他完全正直，敬畏神，遠離惡事。你雖激動我攻擊他，無故地毀滅他，他仍然持守他的純正。
And the LORD said unto Satan, Hast thou considered my servant Job, that there is none like him in the earth, a perfect and an upright man, one that feareth God, and escheweth evil? and still he holdeth fast his integrity, although thou movedst me against him, to destroy him without cause.

2:4    撒但回答耶和華說，人以皮代皮，情願捨去一切所有的，保全性命。
And Satan answered the LORD, and said, Skin for skin, yea, all that a man hath will he give for his life.

2:5    你且伸手傷他的骨頭和他的肉，他必當面棄掉你。
But put forth thine hand now, and touch his bone and his flesh, and he will curse thee to thy face.

2:6    耶和華對撒但說，他在你手中，只要存留他的性命。
And the LORD said unto Satan, Behold, he is in thine hand; but save his life.

2:7    於是撒但從耶和華面前退去，擊打約伯，使他從腳掌到頭頂長毒瘡。
So went Satan forth from the presence of the LORD, and smote Job with sore boils from the sole of his foot unto his crown.

2:8    約伯就坐在爐灰中，拿瓦片刮身體。
And he took him a potsherd to scrape himself withal; and he sat down among the ashes.

2:9    他的妻子對他說，你仍然持守你的純正嗎。你棄掉神，死了吧。
Then said his wife unto him, Dost thou still retain thine integrity? curse God, and die.

2:10    約伯卻對她說，你說話像愚頑的婦人一樣。噯，難道我們從神手裡得福，不也受禍嗎。在這一切的事上約伯並不以口犯罪。
But he said unto her, Thou speakest as one of the foolish women speaketh. What? shall we receive good at the hand of God, and shall we not receive evil? In all this did not Job sin with his lips.

2:11    約伯的三個朋友毯螅人以利法，書亞人比勒達，拿瑪人瑣法，聽說有這一切的災禍臨到他身上，各人就從本處約會同來，為他悲傷，安慰他。
Now when Job's three friends heard of all this evil that was come upon him, they came every one from his own place; Eliphaz the Temanite, and Bildad the Shuhite, and Zophar the Naamathite: for they had made an appointment together to come to mourn with him and to comfort him.

2:12    他們遠遠地舉目觀看，認不出他來，就放聲大哭。各人撕裂外袍，把塵土向天揚起來，落在自己的頭上。
And when they lifted up their eyes afar off, and knew him not, they lifted up their voice, and wept; and they rent every one his mantle, and sprinkled dust upon their heads toward heaven.

2:13    他們就同他七天七夜坐在地上，一個人也不向他說句話，因為他極其痛苦。
So they sat down with him upon the ground seven days and seven nights, and none spake a word unto him: for they saw that his grief was very great.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


3:1    此後，約伯開口咒詛自己的生日，說，
After this opened Job his mouth, and cursed his day.

3:2    願我生的那日，
And Job spake, and said,

3:3    *和說懷了男胎的那夜都滅沒。
Let the day perish wherein I was born, and the night in which it was said, There is a man child conceived.

3:4    願那日變為黑暗。願神不從上面尋梢它。願亮光不照於其上。
Let that day be darkness; let not God regard it from above, neither let the light shine upon it.

3:5    願黑暗和死蔭索取那日。願密雲停在其上。願日蝕恐嚇它。
Let darkness and the shadow of death stain it; let a cloud dwell upon it; let the blackness of the day terrify it.

3:6    願那夜被幽暗奪取，不在年中的日子同樂，也不入月中的數目。
As for that night, let darkness seize upon it; let it not be joined unto the days of the year, let it not come into the number of the months.

3:7    願那夜沒有生育，其間也沒有歡樂的聲音。
Lo, let that night be solitary, let no joyful voice come therein.

3:8    願那咒詛日子且能惹動鱷魚的，咒詛那夜。
Let them curse it that curse the day, who are ready to raise up their mourning.

3:9    願那夜黎明的星宿變為黑暗，盼亮卻不亮，也不見早晨的光線（光線原文作眼皮）。
Let the stars of the twilight thereof be dark; let it look for light, but have none; neither let it see the dawning of the day:

3:10    因沒有把懷我胎的門關閉，也沒有將患難對我的眼隱藏。
Because it shut not up the doors of my mother's womb, nor hid sorrow from mine eyes.

3:11    我為何不出母胎而死。為何不出母腹絕氣。
Why died I not from the womb? why did I not give up the ghost when I came out of the belly?

3:12    為何有膝接收我。為何有奶哺養我。
Why did the knees prevent me? or why the breasts that I should suck?

3:13    不然，我就早已躺臥安睡。
For now should I have lain still and been quiet, I should have slept: then had I been at rest,

3:14    和地上為自己重造荒邱的君王，謀士。
With kings and counsellors of the earth, which built desolate places for themselves;

3:15    或與有金子，將銀子裝滿了房屋的王子一同安息。
Or with princes that had gold, who filled their houses with silver:

3:16    或像隱而未現，不到期而落的胎，歸於無有，如同未見光的嬰孩。
Or as an hidden untimely birth I had not been; as infants which never saw light.

3:17    在那裡惡人止息攪擾，睏乏人得享安息。
There the wicked cease from troubling; and there the weary be at rest.

3:18    被囚的人同得安逸，不聽見督工的聲音。
There the prisoners rest together; they hear not the voice of the oppressor.

3:19    大小都在那裡。奴僕脫離主人的轄制。
The small and great are there; and the servant is free from his master.

3:20    受患難的人，為何有光賜給他呢。心中愁苦的人，為何有生命賜給他呢。
Wherefore is light given to him that is in misery, and life unto the bitter in soul;

3:21    他們切望死，卻不得死。求死，勝於求隱藏的珍寶。
Which long for death, but it cometh not; and dig for it more than for hid treasures;

3:22    他們尋見墳墓就快樂，極其歡喜。
Which rejoice exceedingly, and are glad, when they can find the grave?

3:23    人的道路既然遮隱，神又把他四面圍困，為何有光賜給他呢。
Why is light given to a man whose way is hid, and whom God hath hedged in?

3:24    我未曾吃飯就發出嘆息。我唉哼的聲音湧出如水。
For my sighing cometh before I eat, and my roarings are poured out like the waters.

3:25    因我所恐懼的臨到我身，我所懼怕的迎我而來。
For the thing which I greatly feared is come upon me, and that which I was afraid of is come unto me.

3:26    我不得安逸，不得平靜，也不得安息，卻有患難來到。
I was not in safety, neither had I rest, neither was I quiet; yet trouble came.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


4:1    毯螅人以利法回答說，
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,

4:2    人若想與你說話，你就厭煩嗎。但誰能忍住不說呢。
If we assay to commune with thee, wilt thou be grieved? but who can withhold himself from speaking?

4:3    你素來教導許多的人，又堅固軟弱的手。
Behold, thou hast instructed many, and thou hast strengthened the weak hands.

4:4    你的言語曾扶助那將要跌倒的人。你又使軟弱的膝穩固。
Thy words have upholden him that was falling, and thou hast strengthened the feeble knees.

4:5    但現在禍患臨到你，你就昏迷，挨近你，你便驚惶。
But now it is come upon thee, and thou faintest; it toucheth thee, and thou art troubled.

4:6    你的倚靠不是在你敬畏神嗎。你的盼望不是在你行事純正嗎。
Is not this thy fear, thy confidence, thy hope, and the uprightness of thy ways?

4:7    請你追想，無辜的人有誰滅亡。正直的人在何處剪除。
Remember, I pray thee, who ever perished, being innocent? or where were the righteous cut off?

4:8    按我所見，耕罪孽，種毒害的人，都照樣收割。
Even as I have seen, they that plow iniquity, and sow wickedness, reap the same.

4:9    神一出氣，他們就滅亡。神一發怒，他們就消沒。
By the blast of God they perish, and by the breath of his nostrils are they consumed.

4:10    獅子的吼叫，和猛獅的聲音，盡都止息。少壯獅子的牙齒，也都敲掉。
The roaring of the lion, and the voice of the fierce lion, and the teeth of the young lions, are broken.

4:11    老獅子因絕食而死。母獅之子也都離散。
The old lion perisheth for lack of prey, and the stout lion's whelps are scattered abroad.

4:12    我暗暗地得了默示。我耳朵也聽其細微的聲音。
Now a thing was secretly brought to me, and mine ear received a little thereof.

4:13    在思念夜中，異象之間，世人沉睡的時候。
In thoughts from the visions of the night, when deep sleep falleth on men,

4:14    恐懼，戰兢臨到我身，使我百骨打戰。
Fear came upon me, and trembling, which made all my bones to shake.

4:15    有靈從我面前經過，我身上的毫毛直立。
Then a spirit passed before my face; the hair of my flesh stood up:

4:16    那靈停住，我卻不能辨其形狀。有影像在我眼前。我在靜默中聽見有聲音說，
It stood still, but I could not discern the form thereof: an image was before mine eyes, there was silence, and I heard a voice, saying,

4:17    必死的人豈能比神公義嗎。人豈能比造他的主潔淨嗎。
Shall mortal man be more just than God? shall a man be more pure than his maker?

4:18    主不信靠他的臣僕，並且指他的使者為愚昧。
Behold, he put no trust in his servants; and his angels he charged with folly:

4:19    何況那住在土房，根基在塵土裡，被蠹蟲所毀壞的人呢。
How much less in them that dwell in houses of clay, whose foundation is in the dust, which are crushed before the moth?

4:20    早晚之間，就被毀滅，永歸無有，無人理會。
They are destroyed from morning to evening: they perish for ever without any regarding it.

4:21    他帳棚的繩索豈不從中抽出來呢。他死，且是無智慧而死。
Doth not their excellency which is in them go away? they die, even without wisdom.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


5:1    你且呼求，有誰答應你。諸聖者之中，你轉向那一位呢。
Call now, if there be any that will answer thee; and to which of the saints wilt thou turn?

5:2    忿怒害死愚妄人，嫉妒殺死痴迷人。
For wrath killeth the foolish man, and envy slayeth the silly one.

5:3    我曾見愚妄人紮下根，但我忽然咒詛他的住處。
I have seen the foolish taking root: but suddenly I cursed his habitation.

5:4    他的兒女遠離穩妥的地步，在城門口被壓，並無人搭救。
His children are far from safety, and they are crushed in the gate, neither is there any to deliver them.

5:5    他的莊稼有飢餓的人吃盡了，就是在荊棘裡的也搶去了。他的財寶有網羅張口吞滅了。
Whose harvest the hungry eateth up, and taketh it even out of the thorns, and the robber swalloweth up their substance.

5:6    禍患原不是從土中出來。患難也不是從地裡發生。
Although affliction cometh not forth of the dust, neither doth trouble spring out of the ground;

5:7    人生在世必遇患難，如同火星飛騰。
Yet man is born unto trouble, as the sparks fly upward.

5:8    至於我，我必仰望神，把我的事情託付他。
I would seek unto God, and unto God would I commit my cause:

5:9    他行大事不可測度，行奇事不可勝數。
Which doeth great things and unsearchable; marvellous things without number:

5:10    降雨在地上，賜水于田裡。
Who giveth rain upon the earth, and sendeth waters upon the fields:

5:11    將卑微的安置在高處，將哀痛的舉到穩妥之地。
To set up on high those that be low; that those which mourn may be exalted to safety.

5:12    破壞狡猾人的計謀，使他們所謀的不得成就。
He disappointeth the devices of the crafty, so that their hands cannot perform their enterprise.

5:13    他叫有智慧的中了自己的詭計，使狡詐人的計謀速速滅亡。
He taketh the wise in their own craftiness: and the counsel of the froward is carried headlong.

5:14    他們白晝遇見黑暗，午間摸索如在夜間。
They meet with darkness in the day time, and grope in the noonday as in the night.

5:15    神拯救窮乏人，脫離他們口中的刀，和強暴人的手。
But he saveth the poor from the sword, from their mouth, and from the hand of the mighty.

5:16    這樣，貧寒的人有指望，罪孽之輩必塞口無言。
So the poor hath hope, and iniquity stoppeth her mouth.

5:17    神所懲治的人是有福的。所以你不可輕看全能者的管教。
Behold, happy is the man whom God correcteth: therefore despise not thou the chastening of the Almighty:

5:18    因為他打破，又纏裹。他擊傷，用手醫治。
For he maketh sore, and bindeth up: he woundeth, and his hands make whole.

5:19    你六次遭難，他必救你。就是七次，災禍也無法害你。
He shall deliver thee in six troubles: yea, in seven there shall no evil touch thee.

5:20    在饑荒中，他必救你脫離死亡。在爭戰中，他必救你脫離刀劍的權力。
In famine he shall redeem thee from death: and in war from the power of the sword.

5:21    你必被隱藏，不受口舌之害。災殃臨到，你也不懼怕。
Thou shalt be hid from the scourge of the tongue: neither shalt thou be afraid of destruction when it cometh.

5:22    你遇見災害饑饉，就必嬉笑。地上的野獸，你也不懼怕。
At destruction and famine thou shalt laugh: neither shalt thou be afraid of the beasts of the earth.

5:23    因為你必與田間的石頭立約，田裡的野獸也必與你和好。
For thou shalt be in league with the stones of the field: and the beasts of the field shall be at peace with thee.

5:24    你必知道你帳棚平安，要檢視你的羊圈，一無所失。
And thou shalt know that thy tabernacle shall be in peace; and thou shalt visit thy habitation, and shalt not sin.

5:25    也必知道你的後裔將來發達，你的子孫像地上的青草。
Thou shalt know also that thy seed shall be great, and thine offspring as the grass of the earth.

5:26    你必壽高年邁才歸墳墓，好像禾捆到時收藏。
Thou shalt come to thy grave in a full age, like as a shock of corn cometh in in his season.

5:27    這理，我們已經考察，本是如此。你須要聽，要知道是與自己有益。
Lo this, we have searched it, so it is; hear it, and know thou it for thy good.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


6:1    約伯回答說，
But Job answered and said,

6:2    惟願我的煩惱稱一稱，我一切的災害放在天平裡。
Oh that my grief were throughly weighed, and my calamity laid in the balances together!

6:3    現今都比海沙更重，所以我的言語急躁。
For now it would be heavier than the sand of the sea: therefore my words are swallowed up.

6:4    因全能者的箭射入我身，其毒，我的靈喝盡了。神的驚嚇擺陣攻擊我。
For the arrows of the Almighty are within me, the poison whereof drinketh up my spirit: the terrors of God do set themselves in array against me.

6:5    野驢有草豈能叫喚，牛有料，豈能吼叫。
Doth the wild ass bray when he hath grass? or loweth the ox over his fodder?

6:6    物淡而無鹽豈可吃嗎，蛋青有什麼滋味呢。
Can that which is unsavoury be eaten without salt? or is there any taste in the white of an egg?

6:7    看為可厭的食物，我心不肯挨近。
The things that my soul refused to touch are as my sorrowful meat.

6:8    惟願我得著所求的，願神賜我所切望的。
Oh that I might have my request; and that God would grant me the thing that I long for!

6:9    就是願神把我壓碎，伸手將我剪除。
Even that it would please God to destroy me; that he would let loose his hand, and cut me off!

6:10    我因沒有違棄那聖者的言語，就仍以此為安慰，在不止息的痛苦中還可踴躍。
Then should I yet have comfort; yea, I would harden myself in sorrow: let him not spare; for I have not concealed the words of the Holy One.

6:11    我有什麼氣力使我等候。我有什麼結局使我忍耐。
What is my strength, that I should hope? and what is mine end, that I should prolong my life?

6:12    我的氣力豈是石頭的氣力。我的肉身豈是銅的呢。
Is my strength the strength of stones? or is my flesh of brass?

6:13    在我豈不是毫無幫助嗎。智慧豈不是從我心中趕出淨盡嗎。
Is not my help in me? and is wisdom driven quite from me?

6:14    那將要灰心，離棄全能者，不敬畏神的人，他的朋友當以慈愛待他。
To him that is afflicted pity should be shewed from his friend; but he forsaketh the fear of the Almighty.

6:15    我的弟兄詭詐，好像溪水，又像溪水流乾的河道。
My brethren have dealt deceitfully as a brook, and as the stream of brooks they pass away;

6:16    這河因結冰發黑，有雪藏在其中。
Which are blackish by reason of the ice, and wherein the snow is hid:

6:17    天氣漸暖就隨時消化，日頭炎熱便從原處乾涸。
What time they wax warm, they vanish: when it is hot, they are consumed out of their place.

6:18    結伴的客旅離棄大道，順河偏行，到荒野之地死亡。
The paths of their way are turned aside; they go to nothing, and perish.

6:19    提瑪結伴的客旅瞻望。示巴同夥的人等候。
The troops of Tema looked, the companies of Sheba waited for them.

6:20    他們因失了盼望就抱愧，來到那裡便蒙羞。
They were confounded because they had hoped; they came thither, and were ashamed.

6:21    現在你們正是這樣，看見驚嚇的事便懼怕。
For now ye are nothing; ye see my casting down, and are afraid.

6:22    我豈說，請你們供給我，從你們的財物中送禮物給我。
Did I say, Bring unto me? or, Give a reward for me of your substance?

6:23    豈說，拯救我脫離敵人的手嗎。救贖我脫離強暴人的手嗎。
Or, Deliver me from the enemy's hand? or, Redeem me from the hand of the mighty?

6:24    請你們教導我，我便不作聲。使我明白在何事上有錯。
Teach me, and I will hold my tongue: and cause me to understand wherein I have erred.

6:25    正直的言語力量何其大。但你們責備是責備什麼呢。
How forcible are right words! but what doth your arguing reprove?

6:26    絕望人的講論既然如風，你們還想要駁正言語嗎。
Do ye imagine to reprove words, and the speeches of one that is desperate, which are as wind?

6:27    你們想為孤兒拈鬮，以朋友當貨物。
Yea, ye overwhelm the fatherless, and ye dig a pit for your friend.

6:28    現在請你們看看我，我決不當面說謊。
Now therefore be content, look upon me; for it is evident unto you if I lie.

6:29    請你們轉意，不要不公。請再轉意，我的事有理。
Return, I pray you, let it not be iniquity; yea, return again, my righteousness is in it.

6:30    我的舌上豈有不義嗎。我的口裡豈不辨奸惡嗎。
Is there iniquity in my tongue? cannot my taste discern perverse things?




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


7:1    人在世上豈無爭戰嗎。他的日子不像僱工人的日子嗎。
Is there not an appointed time to man upon earth? are not his days also like the days of an hireling?

7:2    像奴僕切慕黑影，像僱工人盼望工價。
As a servant earnestly desireth the shadow, and as an hireling looketh for the reward of his work:

7:3    我也照樣經過困苦的日月，夜間的疲乏為我而定。
So am I made to possess months of vanity, and wearisome nights are appointed to me.

7:4    我躺臥的時候便說，我何時起來，黑夜就過去呢。我盡是反來覆去，直到天亮。
When I lie down, I say, When shall I arise, and the night be gone? and I am full of tossings to and fro unto the dawning of the day.

7:5    我的肉體以蟲子和塵土為衣。我的面板才收了口又重新破裂。
My flesh is clothed with worms and clods of dust; my skin is broken, and become loathsome.



7:6    我的日子比梭更快，都消耗在無指望之中。
My days are swifter than a weaver's shuttle, and are spent without hope.

7:7    求你想念我，我的生命不過是一口氣。我的眼睛必不再見福樂。
O remember that my life is wind: mine eye shall no more see good.

7:8    觀看我的人，他的眼必不再見我。你的眼目要看我，我卻不在了。
The eye of him that hath seen me shall see me no more: thine eyes are upon me, and I am not.

7:9    雲彩消散而過。照樣，人下陰間也不再上來。
As the cloud is consumed and vanisheth away: so he that goeth down to the grave shall come up no more.

7:10    他不再回自己的家，故土也不再認識他。
He shall return no more to his house, neither shall his place know him any more.

7:11    我不禁止我口。我靈愁苦，要發出言語。我心苦惱，要吐露哀情。
Therefore I will not refrain my mouth; I will speak in the anguish of my spirit; I will complain in the bitterness of my soul.



7:12    我對神說，我豈是洋海，豈是大魚，你竟防守我呢。
Am I a sea, or a whale, that thou settest a watch over me?

7:13    若說，我的床必安慰我，我的榻必解釋我的苦情。
When I say, My bed shall comfort me, my couch shall ease my complaint;

7:14    你就用夢驚駭我，用異象恐嚇我。
Then thou scarest me with dreams, and terrifiest me through visions:

7:15    甚至我寧肯噎死，寧肯死亡，勝似留我這一身的骨頭。
So that my soul chooseth strangling, and death rather than my life.

7:16    我厭棄性命，不願永活。你任憑我吧，因我的日子都是虛空。
I loathe it; I would not live alway: let me alone; for my days are vanity.

7:17    人算什麼，你竟看他為大，將他放在心上，
What is man, that thou shouldest magnify him? and that thou shouldest set thine heart upon him?

7:18    每早晨鑑察他，時刻試驗他。
And that thou shouldest visit him every morning, and try him every moment?

7:19    你到何時才轉眼不看我，才任憑我嚥下唾沫呢。
How long wilt thou not depart from me, nor let me alone till I swallow down my spittle?

7:20    鑑察人的主阿，我若有罪，於你何妨。為何以我當你的箭靶子，使我厭棄自己的性命。
I have sinned; what shall I do unto thee, O thou preserver of men? why hast thou set me as a mark against thee, so that I am a burden to myself?

7:21    為何不赦免我的過犯，除掉我的罪孽。我現今要躺臥在塵土中。你要殷勤地尋梢我，我卻不在了。
And why dost thou not pardon my transgression, and take away mine iniquity? for now shall I sleep in the dust; and thou shalt seek me in the morning, but I shall not be.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


8:1    書亞人比勒達回答說，
Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,

8:2    這些話你要說到幾時。口中的言語如狂風要到幾時呢。
How long wilt thou speak these things? and how long shall the words of thy mouth be like a strong wind?

8:3    神豈能偏離公平。全能者豈能偏離公義。
Doth God pervert judgment? or doth the Almighty pervert justice?

8:4    或者你的兒女得罪了他，他使他們受報應。
If thy children have sinned against him, and he have cast them away for their transgression;

8:5    你若殷勤地尋求神，向全能者懇求。
If thou wouldest seek unto God betimes, and make thy supplication to the Almighty;

8:6    你若清潔正直，他必定為你起來，使你公義的居所興旺。
If thou wert pure and upright; surely now he would awake for thee, and make the habitation of thy righteousness prosperous.

8:7    你起初雖然微小，終久必甚發達。
Though thy beginning was small, yet thy latter end should greatly increase.

8:8    請你考問前代，追念他們的列祖所查究的。
For enquire, I pray thee, of the former age, and prepare thyself to the search of their fathers:

8:9    我們不過從昨日才有，一無所知。我們在世的日子好像影兒。
(For we are but of yesterday, and know nothing, because our days upon earth are a shadow:)

8:10    他們豈不指教你，告訴你，從心裡發出言語來呢。
Shall not they teach thee, and tell thee, and utter words out of their heart?

8:11    蒲草沒有泥，豈能髮長。蘆荻沒有水，豈能生髮。
Can the rush grow up without mire? can the flag grow without water?

8:12    尚青的時候，還沒有割下，比百樣的草先枯槁。
Whilst it is yet in his greenness, and not cut down, it withereth before any other herb.

8:13    凡忘記神的人，景況也是這樣。不虔敬人的指望要滅沒。
So are the paths of all that forget God; and the hypocrite's hope shall perish:

8:14    他所仰賴的必折斷，他所倚靠的是蜘蛛網。
Whose hope shall be cut off, and whose trust shall be a spider's web.

8:15    他要倚靠房屋，房屋卻站立不住。他要抓住房屋，房屋卻不能存留。
He shall lean upon his house, but it shall not stand: he shall hold it fast, but it shall not endure.

8:16    他在日光之下發青，蔓子爬滿了園子。
He is green before the sun, and his branch shooteth forth in his garden.

8:17    他的根盤繞石堆，扎入石地。
His roots are wrapped about the heap, and seeth the place of stones.

8:18    他若從本地被拔出，那地就不認識他，說，我沒有見過你。
If he destroy him from his place, then it shall deny him, saying, I have not seen thee.

8:19    看哪，這就是他道中之樂。以後必另有人從地而生。
Behold, this is the joy of his way, and out of the earth shall others grow.

8:20    神必不丟棄完全人，也不扶助邪惡人。
Behold, God will not cast away a perfect man, neither will he help the evil doers:

8:21    他還要以喜樂充滿你的口，以歡呼充滿你的嘴。
Till he fill thy mouth with laughing, and thy lips with rejoicing.

8:22    恨惡你的要披戴慚愧。惡人的帳棚，必歸無有。
They that hate thee shall be clothed with shame; and the dwelling place of the wicked shall come to nought.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


9:1    約伯回答說，
Then Job answered and said,

9:2    我真知道是這樣。但人在神面前怎能成為義呢。
I know it is so of a truth: but how should man be just with God?

9:3    若願意與他爭辯，千中之一也不能回答。
If he will contend with him, he cannot answer him one of a thousand.

9:4    他心裡有智慧，且大有能力。誰向神剛硬而得亨通呢。
He is wise in heart, and mighty in strength: who hath hardened himself against him, and hath prospered?

9:5    他發怒，把山翻倒挪移，山並不知覺。
Which removeth the mountains, and they know not: which overturneth them in his anger.

9:6    他使地震動，離其本位，地的柱子就搖撼。
Which shaketh the earth out of her place, and the pillars thereof tremble.

9:7    他吩咐日頭不出來，就不出來，又封閉眾星。
Which commandeth the sun, and it riseth not; and sealeth up the stars.

9:8    他獨自鋪張蒼天，步行在海浪之上。
Which alone spreadeth out the heavens, and treadeth upon the waves of the sea.

9:9    他造北斗，叄星，昴星，並南方的密宮。
Which maketh Arcturus, Orion, and Pleiades, and the chambers of the south.

9:10    他行大事，不可測度，行奇事，不可勝數。
Which doeth great things past finding out; yea, and wonders without number.

9:11    他從我旁邊經過，我卻不看見。他在我面前行走，我倒不知覺。
Lo, he goeth by me, and I see him not: he passeth on also, but I perceive him not.

9:12    他奪取，誰能阻擋。誰敢問他，你做什麼。
Behold, he taketh away, who can hinder him? who will say unto him, What doest thou?

9:13    神必不收回他的怒氣。扶助拉哈伯的，屈身在他以下。
If God will not withdraw his anger, the proud helpers do stoop under him.

9:14    既是這樣，我怎敢回答他，怎敢選擇言語與他辯論呢。
How much less shall I answer him, and choose out my words to reason with him?

9:15    我雖有義，也不回答他。只要向那審判我的懇求。
Whom, though I were righteous, yet would I not answer, but I would make supplication to my judge.

9:16    我若呼籲，他應允我。我仍不信他真聽我的聲音。
If I had called, and he had answered me; yet would I not believe that he had hearkened unto my voice.

9:17    他用暴風折斷我，無故地加增我的損傷。
For he breaketh me with a tempest, and multiplieth my wounds without cause.

9:18    我就是喘一口氣，他都不容，倒使我滿心苦惱。
He will not suffer me to take my breath, but filleth me with bitterness.

9:19    若論力量，他真有能力。若論審判，他說誰能將我傳來呢。
If I speak of strength, lo, he is strong: and if of judgment, who shall set me a time to plead?

9:20    我雖有義，自己的口要定我為有罪。我雖完全，我口必顯我為彎曲。
If I justify myself, mine own mouth shall condemn me: if I say, I am perfect, it shall also prove me perverse.

9:21    我本完全，不顧自己。我厭惡我的性命。
Though I were perfect, yet would I not know my soul: I would despise my life.

9:22    善惡無分，都是一樣。所以我說，完全人和惡人，他都滅絕。
This is one thing, therefore I said it, He destroyeth the perfect and the wicked.

9:23    若忽然遭殺害之禍，他必戲笑無辜的人遇難。
If the scourge slay suddenly, he will laugh at the trial of the innocent.

9:24    世界交在惡人手中。矇蔽世界審判官的臉，若不是他，是誰呢。
The earth is given into the hand of the wicked: he covereth the faces of the judges thereof; if not, where, and who is he?

9:25    我的日子比跑信的更快，急速過去，不見福樂。
Now my days are swifter than a post: they flee away, they see no good.

9:26    我的日子過去如快船，如急落抓食的鷹。
They are passed away as the swift ships: as the eagle that hasteth to the prey.

9:27    我若說，我要忘記我的哀情，除去我的愁容，心中暢快。
If I say, I will forget my complaint, I will leave off my heaviness, and comfort myself:

9:28    我因愁苦而懼怕，知道你必不以我為無辜。
I am afraid of all my sorrows, I know that thou wilt not hold me innocent.

9:29    我必被你定為有罪，我何必徒然勞苦呢。
If I be wicked, why then labour I in vain?

9:30    我若用雪水洗身，用礆潔淨我的手。
If I wash myself with snow water, and make my hands never so clean;

9:31    你還要扔我在坑裡，我的衣服都憎惡我。
Yet shalt thou plunge me in the ditch, and mine own clothes shall abhor me.

9:32    他本不像我是人，使我可以回答他，又使我們可以同聽審判。
For he is not a man, as I am, that I should answer him, and we should come together in judgment.

9:33    我們中間沒有聽訟的人，可以向我們兩造按手。
Neither is there any daysman betwixt us, that might lay his hand upon us both.

9:34    願他把杖離開我，不使驚惶威嚇我。
Let him take his rod away from me, and let not his fear terrify me:

9:35    我就說話，也不懼怕他，現在我卻不是那樣。
Then would I speak, and not fear him; but it is not so with me.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


10:1    我厭煩我的性命，必由著自己述說我的哀情。因心裡苦惱，我要說話。
My soul is weary of my life; I will leave my complaint upon myself; I will speak in the bitterness of my soul.

10:2    對神說，不要定我有罪。要指示我，你為何與我爭辯。
I will say unto God, Do not condemn me; shew me wherefore thou contendest with me.

10:3    你手所造的，你又欺壓，又藐視，卻光照惡人的計謀。這事你以為美嗎。
Is it good unto thee that thou shouldest oppress, that thou shouldest despise the work of thine hands, and shine upon the counsel of the wicked?

10:4    你的眼豈是肉眼，你檢視豈像人檢視嗎。
Hast thou eyes of flesh? or seest thou as man seeth?

10:5    你的日子豈像人的日子，你的年歲豈像人的年歲。
Are thy days as the days of man? are thy years as man's days,

10:6    就追問我的罪孽，尋察我的罪過嗎。
That thou enquirest after mine iniquity, and searchest after my sin?

10:7    其實，你知道我沒有罪惡，並沒有能救我脫離你手的。
Thou knowest that I am not wicked; and there is none that can deliver out of thine hand.

10:8    你的手創造我，造就我的四肢百體，你還要毀滅我。
Thine hands have made me and fashioned me together round about; yet thou dost destroy me.

10:9    求你記念製造我如摶泥一般，你還要使我歸於麈土嗎。
Remember, I beseech thee, that thou hast made me as the clay; and wilt thou bring me into dust again?

10:10    你不是倒出我來好像奶，使我凝結如同奶餅嗎。
Hast thou not poured me out as milk, and curdled me like cheese?

10:11    你以皮和肉為衣給我穿上，用骨與筋把我全體聯絡。
Thou hast clothed me with skin and flesh, and hast fenced me with bones and sinews.

10:12    你將生命和慈愛賜給我，你也眷顧保全我的心靈。
Thou hast granted me life and favour, and thy visitation hath preserved my spirit.

10:13    然而，你待我的這些事早已藏在你心裡，我知道你久有此意。
And these things hast thou hid in thine heart: I know that this is with thee.

10:14    我若犯罪，你就察看我，並不赦免我的罪孽。
If I sin, then thou markest me, and thou wilt not acquit me from mine iniquity.

10:15    我若行惡，便有了禍。我若為義，也不敢抬頭。正是滿心羞愧，眼見我的苦情。
If I be wicked, woe unto me; and if I be righteous, yet will I not lift up my head. I am full of confusion; therefore see thou mine affliction;

10:16    我若昂首自得，你就追捕我如獅子，又在我身上顯出奇能。
For it increaseth. Thou huntest me as a fierce lion: and again thou shewest thyself marvellous upon me.

10:17    你重立見證攻擊我，向我加增惱怒，如軍兵更換著攻擊我。
Thou renewest thy witnesses against me, and increasest thine indignation upon me; changes and war are against me.

10:18    你為何使我出母胎呢。不如我當時氣絕，無人得見我。
Wherefore then hast thou brought me forth out of the womb? Oh that I had given up the ghost, and no eye had seen me!

10:19    這樣，就如沒有我一般，一出母胎就被送入墳墓。
I should have been as though I had not been; I should have been carried from the womb to the grave.

10:20    我的日子不是甚少嗎。求你停手寬容我，叫我在往而不返之先，
Are not my days few? cease then, and let me alone, that I may take comfort a little,

10:21    就是往黑暗，和死蔭之地以先，可以稍得暢快。
Before I go whence I shall not return, even to the land of darkness and the shadow of death;

10:22    那地甚是幽暗，是死蔭混沌之地。那裡的光好像幽暗。
A land of darkness, as darkness itself; and of the shadow of death, without any order, and where the light is as darkness.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


11:1    拿瑪人瑣法回答說，
Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,

11:2    這許多的言語豈不該回答嗎。多嘴多舌的人豈可稱為義嗎。
Should not the multitude of words be answered? and should a man full of talk be justified?

11:3    你誇大的話，豈能使人不作聲嗎你戲笑的時候，豈沒有人叫你害羞嗎。
Should thy lies make men hold their peace? and when thou mockest, shall no man make thee ashamed?

11:4    你說，我的道理純全，我在你眼前潔淨。
For thou hast said, My doctrine is pure, and I am clean in thine eyes.

11:5    惟願神說話，願他開口攻擊你。
But oh that God would speak, and open his lips against thee;

11:6    並將智慧的奧祕指示你，他有諸般的智識。所以當知道神追討你，比你罪孽該得的還少。
And that he would shew thee the secrets of wisdom, that they are double to that which is! Know therefore that God exacteth of thee less than thine iniquity deserveth.

11:7    你考察，就能測透神嗎。你豈能盡情測透全能者嗎。
Canst thou by searching find out God? canst thou find out the Almighty unto perfection?

11:8    他的智慧高於天，你還能做什麼。深於陰間，你還能知道什麼。
It is as high as heaven; what canst thou do? deeper than hell; what canst thou know?

11:9    其量比地長，比海寬。
The measure thereof is longer than the earth, and broader than the sea.

11:10    他若經過，將人拘禁，招人受審，誰能阻擋他呢。
If he cut off, and shut up, or gather together, then who can hinder him?

11:11    他本知道虛妄的人。人的罪孽，他雖不留意，還是無所不見。
For he knoweth vain men: he seeth wickedness also; will he not then consider it?

11:12    空虛的人卻毫無知識。人生在世好像野驢的駒子。
For vain man would be wise, though man be born like a wild ass's colt.

11:13    你若將心安正，又向主舉手。
If thou prepare thine heart, and stretch out thine hands toward him;



11:14    你手裡若有罪孽，就當遠遠地除掉，也不容非義住在你帳棚之中。
If iniquity be in thine hand, put it far away, and let not wickedness dwell in thy tabernacles.

11:15    那時，你必仰起臉來毫無斑點。你也必堅固，無所懼怕。
For then shalt thou lift up thy face without spot; yea, thou shalt be stedfast, and shalt not fear:

11:16    你必忘記你的苦楚，就是想起也如流過去的水一樣。
Because thou shalt forget thy misery, and remember it as waters that pass away:

11:17    你在世的日子要比正午更明，雖有黑暗仍像早晨。
And thine age shall be clearer than the noonday: thou shalt shine forth, thou shalt be as the morning.

11:18    你因有指望就必穩固，也必四圍巡查，坦然安息。
And thou shalt be secure, because there is hope; yea, thou shalt dig about thee, and thou shalt take thy rest in safety.

11:19    你躺臥，無人驚嚇，且有許多人向你求恩。
Also thou shalt lie down, and none shall make thee afraid; yea, many shall make suit unto thee.

11:20    但惡人的眼目必要失明。他們無路可逃。他們的指望就是氣絕。
But the eyes of the wicked shall fail, and they shall not escape, and their hope shall be as the giving up of the ghost.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


12:1    約伯回答說，
And Job answered and said,

12:2    你們真是子民哪，你們死亡，智慧也就滅沒了。
No doubt but ye are the people, and wisdom shall die with you.

12:3    但我也有聰明，與你們一樣，並非不及你們。你們所說的，誰不知道呢。
But I have understanding as well as you; I am not inferior to you: yea, who knoweth not such things as these?

12:4    我這求告神，蒙他應允的人，竟成了朋友所譏笑的。公義完全人，竟受了人的譏笑。
I am as one mocked of his neighbour, who calleth upon God, and he answereth him: the just upright man is laughed to scorn.

12:5    安逸的人，心裡藐視災禍。這災禍常常等待滑腳的人。
He that is ready to slip with his feet is as a lamp despised in the thought of him that is at ease.

12:6    強盜的帳棚興旺，惹神的人穩固，神多將財物送到他們手中。
The tabernacles of robbers prosper, and they that provoke God are secure; into whose hand God bringeth abundantly.

12:7    你且問走獸，走獸必指教你。又問空中的飛鳥，飛鳥必告訴你。
But ask now the beasts, and they shall teach thee; and the fowls of the air, and they shall tell thee:

12:8    或與地說話，地必指教你。海中的魚也必向你說明。
Or speak to the earth, and it shall teach thee: and the fishes of the sea shall declare unto thee.

12:9    看這一切，誰不知道是耶和華的手做成的呢。
Who knoweth not in all these that the hand of the LORD hath wrought this?

12:10    凡活物的生命，和人類的氣息，都在他手中。
In whose hand is the soul of every living thing, and the breath of all mankind.

12:11    耳朵豈不試驗言語，正如上膛嘗食物嗎。
Doth not the ear try words? and the mouth taste his meat?

12:12    年老的有智慧，壽高的有知識。
With the ancient is wisdom; and in length of days understanding.

12:13    在神有智慧和能力，他有謀略和知識。
With him is wisdom and strength, he hath counsel and understanding.

12:14    他拆毀的，就不能再建造。他捆住人，便不得開釋。
Behold, he breaketh down, and it cannot be built again: he shutteth up a man, and there can be no opening.

12:15    他把水留住，水便枯乾。他再發出水來，水就翻地。
Behold, he withholdeth the waters, and they dry up: also he sendeth them out, and they overturn the earth.

12:16    在他有能力和智慧。被誘惑的，與誘惑人的，都是屬他。
With him is strength and wisdom: the deceived and the deceiver are his.

12:17    他把謀士剝衣擄去，又使審判官變成愚人。
He leadeth counsellors away spoiled, and maketh the judges fools.

12:18    他放鬆君王的綁，又用帶子捆他們的腰。
He looseth the bond of kings, and girdeth their loins with a girdle.

12:19    他把祭司剝衣擄去，又使有能的人傾敗。
He leadeth princes away spoiled, and overthroweth the mighty.

12:20    他廢去忠信人的講論，又奪去老人的聰明。
He removeth away the speech of the trusty, and taketh away the understanding of the aged.

12:21    他使君王蒙羞被辱，放鬆有力之人的腰帶。
He poureth contempt upon princes, and weakeneth the strength of the mighty.

12:22    他將深奧的事從黑暗中彰顯，使死蔭顯為光明。
He discovereth deep things out of darkness, and bringeth out to light the shadow of death.

12:23    他使邦國興旺而又毀滅，他使邦國開廣而又擄去。
He increaseth the nations, and destroyeth them: he enlargeth the nations, and straiteneth them again.

12:24    他將地上民中首領的聰明奪去，使他們在荒廢無路之地漂流。
He taketh away the heart of the chief of the people of the earth, and causeth them to wander in a wilderness where there is no way.

12:25    他們無光，在黑暗中摸索，又使他們東倒西歪，像醉酒的人一樣。
They grope in the dark without light, and he maketh them to stagger like a drunken man.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


13:1    這一切，我眼都見過。我耳都聽過，而且明白。
Lo, mine eye hath seen all this, mine ear hath heard and understood it.

13:2    你們所知道的，我也知道，並非不及你們。
What ye know, the same do I know also: I am not inferior unto you.

13:3    我真要對全能者說話。我願與神理論。
Surely I would speak to the Almighty, and I desire to reason with God.

13:4    你們是編造謊言的，都是無用的醫生。
But ye are forgers of lies, ye are all physicians of no value.

13:5    惟願你們全然不作聲。這就算為你們的智慧。
O that ye would altogether hold your peace! and it should be your wisdom.

13:6    請你們聽我的辯論，留心聽我口中的分訴。
Hear now my reasoning, and hearken to the pleadings of my lips.

13:7    你們要為神說不義的話嗎，為他說詭詐的言語嗎。
Will ye speak wickedly for God? and talk deceitfully for him?

13:8    你們要為神徇情嗎，要為他爭論嗎。
Will ye accept his person? will ye contend for God?

13:9    他查出你們來，這豈是好嗎。人欺哄人，你們也要照樣欺哄他嗎。
Is it good that he should search you out? or as one man mocketh another, do ye so mock him?

13:10    你們若暗中徇情，他必要責備你們。
He will surely reprove you, if ye do secretly accept persons.

13:11    他的尊榮豈不叫你們懼怕嗎。他的驚嚇豈不臨到你們嗎。
Shall not his excellency make you afraid? and his dread fall upon you?

13:12    你們以為可記念的箴言是爐灰的箴言。你們以為可靠的堅壘是淤泥的堅壘。
Your remembrances are like unto ashes, your bodies to bodies of clay.

13:13    你們不要作聲，任憑我吧。讓我說話，無論如何我都承當。
Hold your peace, let me alone, that I may speak, and let come on me what will.

13:14    我何必把我的肉掛在牙上，將我的命放在手中。
Wherefore do I take my flesh in my teeth, and put my life in mine hand?

13:15    他必殺我。我雖無指望，然而我在他面前還要辯明我所行的。
Though he slay me, yet will I trust in him: but I will maintain mine own ways before him.

13:16    這要成為我的拯救，因為不虔誠的人，不得到他面前。
He also shall be my salvation: for an hypocrite shall not come before him.

13:17    你們要細聽我的言語，使我所辯論的入你們的耳中。
Hear diligently my speech, and my declaration with your ears.

13:18    我已陳明我的案，知道自己有義。
Behold now, I have ordered my cause; I know that I shall be justified.

13:19    有誰與我爭論，我就情願緘默不言，氣絕而亡。
Who is he that will plead with me? for now, if I hold my tongue, I shall give up the ghost.

13:20    惟有兩件不要向我施行，我就不躲開你的面。
Only do not two things unto me: then will I not hide myself from thee.

13:21    就是把你的手縮回，遠離我身。又不使你的驚惶威嚇我。
Withdraw thine hand far from me: and let not thy dread make me afraid.

13:22    這樣，你呼叫，我就回答。或是讓我說話，你回答我。
Then call thou, and I will answer: or let me speak, and answer thou me.

13:23    我的罪孽和罪過有多少呢。求你叫我知道我的過犯與罪愆。
How many are mine iniquities and sins? make me to know my transgression and my sin.

13:24    你為何掩面，拿我當仇敵呢。
Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and holdest me for thine enemy?

13:25    你要驚動被風吹的葉子嗎。要追趕枯乾的碎秸嗎。
Wilt thou break a leaf driven to and fro? and wilt thou pursue the dry stubble?

13:26    你按罪狀刑罰我，又使我擔當幼年的罪孽。
For thou writest bitter things against me, and makest me to possess the iniquities of my youth.

13:27    也把我的腳上了木狗，並窺察我一切的道路，為我的腳掌劃定界限。
Thou puttest my feet also in the stocks, and lookest narrowly unto all my paths; thou settest a print upon the heels of my feet.

13:28    我已經像滅絕的爛物，像蟲蛀的衣裳。
And he, as a rotten thing, consumeth, as a garment that is moth eaten.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


14:1    人為婦人所生，日子短少，多有患難。
Man that is born of a woman is of few days, and full of trouble.

14:2    出來如花，又被割下。飛去如影，不能存留。
He cometh forth like a flower, and is cut down: he fleeth also as a shadow, and continueth not.

14:3    這樣的人你豈睜眼看他嗎。又叫我來受審嗎。
And dost thou open thine eyes upon such an one, and bringest me into judgment with thee?

14:4    誰能使潔淨之物出於汙穢之中呢。無論誰也不能。
Who can bring a clean thing out of an unclean? not one.

14:5    人的日子既然限定，他的月數在你那裡，你也派定他的界限，使他不能越過。
Seeing his days are determined, the number of his months are with thee, thou hast appointed his bounds that he cannot pass;

14:6    便求你轉眼不看他，使他得歇息。直等他像僱工人完畢他的日子。
Turn from him, that he may rest, till he shall accomplish, as an hireling, his day.

14:7    樹若被砍下，還可指望發芽，嫩枝生長不息。
For there is hope of a tree, if it be cut down, that it will sprout again, and that the tender branch thereof will not cease.

14:8    其根雖然衰老在地裡，幹也死在土中。
Though the root thereof wax old in the earth, and the stock thereof die in the ground;

14:9    及至得了水氣，還要發芽，又長枝條，像新栽的樹一樣。
Yet through the scent of water it will bud, and bring forth boughs like a plant.

14:10    但人死亡而消滅。他氣絕，竟在何處呢。
But man dieth, and wasteth away: yea, man giveth up the ghost, and where is he?

14:11    海中的水絕盡，江河消散乾涸。
As the waters fail from the sea, and the flood decayeth and drieth up:

14:12    人也是如此，躺下不再起來。等到天沒有了，仍不得復醒，也不得從睡中喚醒。
So man lieth down, and riseth not: till the heavens be no more, they shall not awake, nor be raised out of their sleep.

14:13    惟願你把我藏在陰間，存於隱密處，等你的忿怒過去。願你為我定了日期，記念我。
O that thou wouldest hide me in the grave, that thou wouldest keep me secret, until thy wrath be past, that thou wouldest appoint me a set time, and remember me!

14:14    人若死了豈能再活呢。我只要在我一切爭戰的日子，等我被釋放（被釋放或作改變）的時候來到。
If a man die, shall he live again? all the days of my appointed time will I wait, till my change come.

14:15    你呼叫，我便回答。你手所做的，你必羨慕。
Thou shalt call, and I will answer thee: thou wilt have a desire to the work of thine hands.

14:16    但如今你數點我的腳步，豈不窺察我的罪過嗎。
For now thou numberest my steps: dost thou not watch over my sin?

14:17    我的過犯被你封在囊中，也縫嚴了我的罪孽。
My transgression is sealed up in a bag, and thou sewest up mine iniquity.

14:18    山崩變為無有。磐石挪開原處。
And surely the mountain falling cometh to nought, and the rock is removed out of his place.

14:19    水流消磨石頭，所流溢的洗去地上的塵土。你也照樣滅絕人的指望。
The waters wear the stones: thou washest away the things which grow out of the dust of the earth; and thou destroyest the hope of man.

14:20    你攻擊人常常得勝，使他去世。你改變他的容貌，叫他往而不回。
Thou prevailest for ever against him, and he passeth: thou changest his countenance, and sendest him away.

14:21    他兒子得尊榮，他也不知道。降為卑，他也不覺得。
His sons come to honour, and he knoweth it not; and they are brought low, but he perceiveth it not of them.

14:22    但知身上疼痛，心中悲哀。
But his flesh upon him shall have pain, and his soul within him shall mourn.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


15:1    毯螅人以利法回答說，
Then answered Eliphaz the Temanite, and said,

15:2    智慧人豈可用虛空的知識回答，用東風充滿肚腹呢。
Should a wise man utter vain knowledge, and fill his belly with the east wind?

15:3    他豈可用無益的話，和無濟於事的言語，理論呢。
Should he reason with unprofitable talk? or with speeches wherewith he can do no good?

15:4    你是廢棄敬畏的意，在神面前阻止敬虔的心。
Yea, thou castest off fear, and restrainest prayer before God.

15:5    你的罪孽指教你的口。你選用詭詐人的舌頭。
For thy mouth uttereth thine iniquity, and thou choosest the tongue of the crafty.

15:6    你自己的口定你有罪，並非是我。你自己的嘴，見證你的不是。
Thine own mouth condemneth thee, and not I: yea, thine own lips testify against thee.

15:7    你豈是頭一個被生的人嗎。你受造在諸山之先嗎。
Art thou the first man that was born? or wast thou made before the hills?

15:8    你曾聽見神的密旨嗎。你還將智慧獨自得盡嗎。
Hast thou heard the secret of God? and dost thou restrain wisdom to thyself?

15:9    你知道什麼是我們不知道的呢。你明白什麼是我們不明白的呢。
What knowest thou, that we know not? what understandest thou, which is not in us?

15:10    我們這裡有白髮的，和年紀老邁的，比你父親還老。
With us are both the grayheaded and very aged men, much elder than thy father.

15:11    神用溫和的話安慰你，你以為太小嗎。
Are the consolations of God small with thee? is there any secret thing with thee?

15:12    你的心為何將你逼去。你的眼為何冒出火星。
Why doth thine heart carry thee away? and what do thy eyes wink at,

15:13    使你的靈反對神，也任你的口發這言語。
That thou turnest thy spirit against God, and lettest such words go out of thy mouth?

15:14    人是什麼，竟算為潔淨呢。婦人所生的是什麼，竟算為義呢。
What is man, that he should be clean? and he which is born of a woman, that he should be righteous?

15:15    神不信靠他的眾聖者。在他眼前，天也不潔淨。
Behold, he putteth no trust in his saints; yea, the heavens are not clean in his sight.

15:16    何況那汙穢可憎，喝罪孽如水的世人呢。
How much more abominable and filthy is man, which drinketh iniquity like water?

15:17    我指示你，你要聽。我要述說所看見的。
I will shew thee, hear me; and that which I have seen I will declare;

15:18    就是智慧人從列祖所受，傳說而不隱瞞的。
Which wise men have told from their fathers, and have not hid it:

15:19    （這地惟獨賜給他們，並沒有外人從他們中間經過）。
Unto whom alone the earth was given, and no stranger passed among them.

15:20    惡人一生之日劬勞痛苦，強暴人一生的年數也是如此。
The wicked man travaileth with pain all his days, and the number of years is hidden to the oppressor.

15:21    驚嚇的聲音常在他耳中。在平安時，搶奪的必臨到他那裡。
A dreadful sound is in his ears: in prosperity the destroyer shall come upon him.

15:22    他不信自己能從黑暗中轉回，他被刀劍等候。
He believeth not that he shall return out of darkness, and he is waited for of the sword.

15:23    他漂流在外求食，說，那裡有食物呢。他知道黑暗的日子，在他手邊預備好了。
He wandereth abroad for bread, saying, Where is it? he knoweth that the day of darkness is ready at his hand.

15:24    急難困苦叫他害怕，而且勝了他，好像君王預備上陣一樣。
Trouble and anguish shall make him afraid; they shall prevail against him, as a king ready to the battle.

15:25    他伸手攻擊神，以驕傲攻擊全能者。
For he stretcheth out his hand against God, and strengtheneth himself against the Almighty.

15:26    挺著頸項，用盾牌的厚凸面，向全能者直闖。
He runneth upon him, even on his neck, upon the thick bosses of his bucklers:

15:27    是因他的臉蒙上脂油，腰積成肥肉。
Because he covereth his face with his fatness, and maketh collops of fat on his flanks.

15:28    他曾住在荒涼城邑，無人居住，將成亂堆的房屋。
And he dwelleth in desolate cities, and in houses which no man inhabiteth, which are ready to become heaps.

15:29    他不得富足，財物不得常存，產業在地上也不加增。
He shall not be rich, neither shall his substance continue, neither shall he prolong the perfection thereof upon the earth.

15:30    他不得出離黑暗。火焰要將他的枝子燒乾。因神口中的氣，他要滅亡（滅亡原文作走去）。
He shall not depart out of darkness; the flame shall dry up his branches, and by the breath of his mouth shall he go away.

15:31    他不用倚靠虛假欺哄自己，因虛假必成為他的報應。
Let not him that is deceived trust in vanity: for vanity shall be his recompence.

15:32    他的日期未到之先，這事必成就。他的枝子不得青綠。
It shall be accomplished before his time, and his branch shall not be green.

15:33    他必像葡萄樹的葡萄，未熟而落。又像橄欖樹的花，一開而謝。
He shall shake off his unripe grape as the vine, and shall cast off his flower as the olive.

15:34    原來不敬虔之輩必無生育。受賄賂之人的帳棚必被火燒。
For the congregation of hypocrites shall be desolate, and fire shall consume the tabernacles of bribery.

15:35    他們所懷的是毒害，所生的是罪孽，心裡所豫備的是詭詐。
They conceive mischief, and bring forth vanity, and their belly prepareth deceit.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


16:1    約伯回答說，
Then Job answered and said,

16:2    這樣的話我聽了許多。你們安慰人，反叫人愁煩。
I have heard many such things: miserable comforters are ye all.

16:3    虛空的言語有窮盡嗎。有什麼話惹動你回答呢。
Shall vain words have an end? or what emboldeneth thee that thou answerest?

16:4    我也能說你們那樣的話。你們若處在我的境遇，我也會聯絡言語攻擊你們，又能向你們搖頭。
I also could speak as ye do: if your soul were in my soul's stead, I could heap up words against you, and shake mine head at you.

16:5    但我必用口堅固你們，用嘴消解你們的憂愁。
But I would strengthen you with my mouth, and the moving of my lips should asswage your grief.

16:6    我雖說話，憂愁仍不得消解。我雖停住不說，憂愁就離開我嗎。
Though I speak, my grief is not asswaged: and though I forbear, what am I eased?

16:7    但現在神使我睏倦，使親友遠離我。
But now he hath made me weary: thou hast made desolate all my company.

16:8    又抓住我，作見證攻擊我。我身體的枯瘦，也當面見證我的不是。
And thou hast filled me with wrinkles, which is a witness against me: and my leanness rising up in me beareth witness to my face.

16:9    主發怒撕裂我，逼迫我，向我切齒。我的敵人怒目看我。
He teareth me in his wrath, who hateth me: he gnasheth upon me with his teeth; mine enemy sharpeneth his eyes upon me.

16:10    他們向我開口，打我的臉羞辱我，聚會攻擊我。
They have gaped upon me with their mouth; they have smitten me upon the cheek reproachfully; they have gathered themselves together against me.

16:11    神把我交給不敬虔的人，把我扔到惡人的手中。
God hath delivered me to the ungodly, and turned me over into the hands of the wicked.

16:12    我素來安逸，他折斷我，掐住我的頸項，把我摔碎。又立我為他的箭靶子。
I was at ease, but he hath broken me asunder: he hath also taken me by my neck, and shaken me to pieces, and set me up for his mark.

16:13    他的弓箭手四面圍繞我。他破裂我的肺腑，並不留情，把我的膽傾倒在地上，
His archers compass me round about, he cleaveth my reins asunder, and doth not spare; he poureth out my gall upon the ground.

16:14    將我破裂又破裂，如同勇士向我直闖。
He breaketh me with breach upon breach, he runneth upon me like a giant.

16:15    我縫麻布在我面板上，把我的角放在塵土中。
I have sewed sackcloth upon my skin, and defiled my horn in the dust.

16:16    我的臉因哭泣發紫，在我的眼皮上有死蔭。
My face is foul with weeping, and on my eyelids is the shadow of death;

16:17    我的手中卻無強暴。我的祈禱也是清潔。
Not for any injustice in mine hands: also my prayer is pure.

16:18    地阿，不要遮蓋我的血。不要阻擋我的哀求。
O earth, cover not thou my blood, and let my cry have no place.

16:19    現今，在天有我的見證，在上有我的中保。
Also now, behold, my witness is in heaven, and my record is on high.

16:20    我的朋友譏誚我，我卻向神眼淚汪汪。
My friends scorn me: but mine eye poureth out tears unto God.

16:21    願人得與神辯白，如同人與朋友辯白一樣。
O that one might plead for a man with God, as a man pleadeth for his neighbour!

16:22    因為再過幾年，我必走那往而不返之路。
When a few years are come, then I shall go the way whence I shall not return.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


17:1    我的心靈消耗，我的日子滅盡。墳墓為我預備好了。
My breath is corrupt, my days are extinct, the graves are ready for me.

17:2    真有戲笑我的在我這裡，我眼常見他們惹動我。
Are there not mockers with me? and doth not mine eye continue in their provocation?

17:3    願主拿憑據給我，自己為我作保。在你以外誰肯與我擊掌呢。
Lay down now, put me in a surety with thee; who is he that will strike hands with me?

17:4    因你使他們心不明理，所以你必不高舉他們。
For thou hast hid their heart from understanding: therefore shalt thou not exalt them.

17:5    控告他的朋友，以朋友為可搶奪的，連他兒女的眼睛也要失明。
He that speaketh flattery to his friends, even the eyes of his children shall fail.

17:6    神使我作了民中的笑談。他們也吐唾沫在我臉上。
He hath made me also a byword of the people; and aforetime I was as a tabret.

17:7    我的眼睛因憂愁昏花。我的百體好像影兒。
Mine eye also is dim by reason of sorrow, and all my members are as a shadow.

17:8    正直人因此必驚奇。無辜的人，要興起攻擊不敬虔之輩。
Upright men shall be astonied at this, and the innocent shall stir up himself against the hypocrite.

17:9    然而，義人要持守所行的道。手潔的人要力上加力。
The righteous also shall hold on his way, and he that hath clean hands shall be stronger and stronger.

17:10    至於你們眾人，可以再來辯論吧。你們中間，我找不著一個智慧人。
But as for you all, do ye return, and come now: for I cannot find one wise man among you.

17:11    我的日子已經過了。我的謀算，我心所想望的已經斷絕。
My days are past, my purposes are broken off, even the thoughts of my heart.

17:12    他們以黑夜為白晝，說，亮光近乎黑暗。
They change the night into day: the light is short because of darkness.



17:13    我若盼望陰間為我的房屋，若下榻在黑暗中，
If I wait, the grave is mine house: I have made my bed in the darkness.

17:14    若對朽壞說，你是我的父。對蟲說，你是我的母親姊妹。
I have said to corruption, Thou art my father: to the worm, Thou art my mother, and my sister.

17:15    這樣，我的指望在那裡呢。我所指望的誰能看見呢。
And where is now my hope? as for my hope, who shall see it?

17:16    等到安息在塵土中，這指望必下到陰間的門閂那裡了。
They shall go down to the bars of the pit, when our rest together is in the dust.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


18:1    書亞人比勒達回答說，
Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,

18:2    你尋索言語要到幾時呢。你可以揣摩思想，然後我們就說話。
How long will it be ere ye make an end of words? mark, and afterwards we will speak.

18:3    我們為何算為畜生，在你眼中看作汙穢呢。
Wherefore are we counted as beasts, and reputed vile in your sight?

18:4    你這惱怒將自己撕裂的，難道大地為你見棄，磐石挪開原處嗎。
He teareth himself in his anger: shall the earth be forsaken for thee? and shall the rock be removed out of his place?

18:5    惡人的亮光必要熄滅。他的火焰必不照耀。
Yea, the light of the wicked shall be put out, and the spark of his fire shall not shine.

18:6    他帳棚中的亮光要變為黑暗。他以上的燈也必熄滅。
The light shall be dark in his tabernacle, and his candle shall be put out with him.

18:7    他堅強的腳步必見狹窄。自己的計謀必將他絆倒。
The steps of his strength shall be straitened, and his own counsel shall cast him down.

18:8    因為他被自己的腳陷入網中，走在纏人的網羅上。
For he is cast into a net by his own feet, and he walketh upon a snare.

18:9    圈套必抓住他的腳跟。機關必擒獲他。
The gin shall take him by the heel, and the robber shall prevail against him.

18:10    活釦為他藏在土內。羈絆為他藏在路上。
The snare is laid for him in the ground, and a trap for him in the way.

18:11    四面的驚嚇要使他害怕，並且追趕他的腳跟。
Terrors shall make him afraid on every side, and shall drive him to his feet.

18:12    他的力量必因飢餓衰敗，禍患要在他旁邊等候。
His strength shall be hungerbitten, and destruction shall be ready at his side.

18:13    他本身的肢體要被吞吃，死亡的長子要吞吃他的肢體。
It shall devour the strength of his skin: even the firstborn of death shall devour his strength.

18:14    他要從所倚靠的帳棚被拔出來，帶到驚嚇的王那裡。
His confidence shall be rooted out of his tabernacle, and it shall bring him to the king of terrors.

18:15    不屬他的必住在他的帳棚裡。硫磺必撒在他所住之處。
It shall dwell in his tabernacle, because it is none of his: brimstone shall be scattered upon his habitation.

18:16    下邊，他的根本要枯乾。上邊，他的枝子要剪除。
His roots shall be dried up beneath, and above shall his branch be cut off.

18:17    他的記念在地上必然滅亡。他的名字在街上也不存留。
His remembrance shall perish from the earth, and he shall have no name in the street.

18:18    他必從光明中被攆到黑暗裡，必被趕出世界。
He shall be driven from light into darkness, and chased out of the world.

18:19    在本民中必無子無孫。在寄居之地也無一人存留。
He shall neither have son nor nephew among his people, nor any remaining in his dwellings.

18:20    以後來的要驚奇他的日子，好像以前去的受了驚駭。
They that come after him shall be astonied at his day, as they that went before were affrighted.

18:21    不義之人的住處總是這樣。此乃不認識神之人的地步。
Surely such are the dwellings of the wicked, and this is the place of him that knoweth not God.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


19:1    約伯回答說，
Then Job answered and said,

19:2    你們攪擾我的心，用言語壓碎我，要到幾時呢。
How long will ye vex my soul, and break me in pieces with words?

19:3    你們這十次羞辱我。你們苦待我也不以為恥。
These ten times have ye reproached me: ye are not ashamed that ye make yourselves strange to me.

19:4    果真我有錯，這錯乃是在我。
And be it indeed that I have erred, mine error remaineth with myself.

19:5    你們果然要向我誇大，以我的羞辱為證指責我。
If indeed ye will magnify yourselves against me, and plead against me my reproach:

19:6    就該知道是神傾覆我，用網羅圍繞我。
Know now that God hath overthrown me, and hath compassed me with his net.

19:7    我因委曲呼叫，卻不蒙應允。我呼求，卻不得公斷。
Behold, I cry out of wrong, but I am not heard: I cry aloud, but there is no judgment.

19:8    神用籬笆攔住我的道路，使我不得經過。又使我的路徑黑暗。
He hath fenced up my way that I cannot pass, and he hath set darkness in my paths.

19:9    他剝去我的榮光，摘去我頭上的冠冕。
He hath stripped me of my glory, and taken the crown from my head.

19:10    他在四圍攻擊我，我便歸於死亡，將我的指望如樹拔出來。
He hath destroyed me on every side, and I am gone: and mine hope hath he removed like a tree.

19:11    他的忿怒向我發作，以我為敵人。
He hath also kindled his wrath against me, and he counteth me unto him as one of his enemies.

19:12    他的軍旅一齊上來，修築戰路攻擊我。在我帳棚的四圍安營。
His troops come together, and raise up their way against me, and encamp round about my tabernacle.

19:13    他把我的弟兄隔在遠處，使我所認識的，全然與我生疏。
He hath put my brethren far from me, and mine acquaintance are verily estranged from me.

19:14    我的親戚與我斷絕。我的密友都忘記我。
My kinsfolk have failed, and my familiar friends have forgotten me.

19:15    在我家寄居的，和我的使女都以我為外人。我在他們眼中看為外邦人。
They that dwell in mine house, and my maids, count me for a stranger: I am an alien in their sight.

19:16    我呼喚僕人，雖用口求他，他還是不回答。
I called my servant, and he gave me no answer; I intreated him with my mouth.

19:17    我口的氣味，我妻子厭惡。我的懇求，我同胞也憎嫌。
My breath is strange to my wife, though I intreated for the children's sake of mine own body.

19:18    連小孩子也藐視我。我若起來，他們都嘲笑我。
Yea, young children despised me; I arose, and they spake against me.

19:19    我的密友都憎惡我。我平日所愛的人向我翻臉。
All my inward friends abhorred me: and they whom I loved are turned against me.

19:20    我的皮肉緊貼骨頭。我只剩牙皮逃脫了。
My bone cleaveth to my skin and to my flesh, and I am escaped with the skin of my teeth.

19:21    我朋友阿，可憐我。可憐我。因為神的手攻擊我。
Have pity upon me, have pity upon me, O ye my friends; for the hand of God hath touched me.

19:22    你們為什麼彷佛神逼迫我，吃我的肉還以為不足呢。
Why do ye persecute me as God, and are not satisfied with my flesh?

19:23    惟願我的言語現在寫上，都記錄在書上。
Oh that my words were now written! oh that they were printed in a book!

19:24    用鐵筆鐫刻，用鉛灌在磐石上，直存到永遠。
That they were graven with an iron pen and lead in the rock for ever!

19:25    我知道我的救贖主活著，末了必站立在地上。
For I know that my redeemer liveth, and that he shall stand at the latter day upon the earth:

19:26    我這皮肉滅絕之後，我必在肉體之外得見神。
And though after my skin worms destroy this body, yet in my flesh shall I see God:

19:27    我自己要見他，親眼要看他，並不像外人。我的心腸在我裡面消滅了。
Whom I shall see for myself, and mine eyes shall behold, and not another; though my reins be consumed within me.

19:28    你們若說，我們逼迫他要何等地重呢。惹事的根乃在乎他。
But ye should say, Why persecute we him, seeing the root of the matter is found in me?

19:29    你們就當懼怕刀劍。因為忿怒惹動刀劍的刑罰，使你們知道有報應（原文作審判）。
Be ye afraid of the sword: for wrath bringeth the punishments of the sword, that ye may know there is a judgment.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


20:1    拿瑪人瑣法回答說，
Then answered Zophar the Naamathite, and said,

20:2    我心中急躁，所以我的思念叫我回答。
Therefore do my thoughts cause me to answer, and for this I make haste.

20:3    我已聽見那羞辱我，責備我的話。我的悟性叫我回答。
I have heard the check of my reproach, and the spirit of my understanding causeth me to answer.

20:4    你豈不知亙古以來，自從人生在地。
Knowest thou not this of old, since man was placed upon earth,

20:5    惡人誇勝是暫時的，不敬虔人的喜樂，不過轉眼之間嗎。
That the triumphing of the wicked is short, and the joy of the hypocrite but for a moment?

20:6    他的尊榮雖達到天上，頭雖頂到雲中，
Though his excellency mount up to the heavens, and his head reach unto the clouds;

20:7    他終必滅亡，像自己的糞一樣。素來見他的人要說，他在那裡呢。
Yet he shall perish for ever like his own dung: they which have seen him shall say, Where is he?

20:8    他必飛去如夢，不再尋見，速被趕去，如夜間的異象。
He shall fly away as a dream, and shall not be found: yea, he shall be chased away as a vision of the night.

20:9    親眼見過他的，必不再見他。他的本處也再見不著他。
The eye also which saw him shall see him no more; neither shall his place any more behold him.

20:10    他的兒女要求窮人的恩。他的手要賠還不義之財。
His children shall seek to please the poor, and his hands shall restore their goods.

20:11    他的骨頭雖然有青年之力，卻要和他一同躺臥在塵土中。
His bones are full of the sin of his youth, which shall lie down with him in the dust.

20:12    他口內雖以惡為甘甜，藏在舌頭底下。
Though wickedness be sweet in his mouth, though he hide it under his tongue;

20:13    愛戀不捨，含在口中。
Though he spare it, and forsake it not; but keep it still within his mouth:

20:14    他的食物在肚裡卻要化為酸，在他裡面成為虺蛇的惡毒。
Yet his meat in his bowels is turned, it is the gall of asps within him.

20:15    他吞了財寶，還要吐出。神要從他腹中掏出來。
He hath swallowed down riches, and he shall vomit them up again: God shall cast them out of his belly.

20:16    他必吸飲虺蛇的毒氣。蝮蛇的舌頭也必殺他。
He shall suck the poison of asps: the viper's tongue shall slay him.

20:17    流奶與蜜之河，他不得再見。
He shall not see the rivers, the floods, the brooks of honey and butter.

20:18    他勞碌得來的要賠還，不得享用（原文作吞下），不能照所得的財貨歡樂。
That which he laboured for shall he restore, and shall not swallow it down: according to his substance shall the restitution be, and he shall not rejoice therein.

20:19    他欺壓窮人，且又離棄。強取非自己所蓋的房屋（或作強取房屋不得再建造）。
Because he hath oppressed and hath forsaken the poor; because he hath violently taken away an house which he builded not;

20:20    他因貪而無厭，所喜悅的連一樣也不能保守。
Surely he shall not feel quietness in his belly, he shall not save of that which he desired.

20:21    其餘的沒有一樣他不吞滅，所以他的福樂不能長久。
There shall none of his meat be left; therefore shall no man look for his goods.

20:22    他在滿足有餘的時候，必到狹窄的地步。凡受苦楚的人，都必加手在他身上。
In the fulness of his sufficiency he shall be in straits: every hand of the wicked shall come upon him.

20:23    他正要充滿肚腹的時候，神必將猛烈的忿怒，降在他身上。正在他吃飯的時候，要將這忿怒像雨降在他身上。
When he is about to fill his belly, God shall cast the fury of his wrath upon him, and shall rain it upon him while he is eating.

20:24    他要躲避鐵器。銅弓的箭要將他射透。
He shall flee from the iron weapon, and the bow of steel shall strike him through.

20:25    他把箭一抽，就從他身上出來。發光的箭頭從他膽中出來，有驚惶臨在他身上。
It is drawn, and cometh out of the body; yea, the glittering sword cometh out of his gall: terrors are upon him.

20:26    他的財寶歸於黑暗。人所不吹的火要把他燒滅，要把他帳棚中所剩下的燒燬。
All darkness shall be hid in his secret places: a fire not blown shall consume him; it shall go ill with him that is left in his tabernacle.

20:27    天要顯明他的罪孽，地要興起攻擊他。
The heaven shall reveal his iniquity; and the earth shall rise up against him.

20:28    他的家產必然過去。神發怒的日子，他的貨物都要消滅。
The increase of his house shall depart, and his goods shall flow away in the day of his wrath.

20:29    這是惡人從神所得的分，是神為他所定的產業。
This is the portion of a wicked man from God, and the heritage appointed unto him by God.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


21:1    約伯回答說，
But Job answered and said,

21:2    你們要細聽我的言語，就算是你們安慰我。
Hear diligently my speech, and let this be your consolations.

21:3    請寬容我，我又要說話。說了以後，任憑你們嗤笑吧。
Suffer me that I may speak; and after that I have spoken, mock on.

21:4    我豈是向人訴冤，為何不焦急呢。
As for me, is my complaint to man? and if it were so, why should not my spirit be troubled?

21:5    你們要看著我而驚奇，用手捂口。
Mark me, and be astonished, and lay your hand upon your mouth.

21:6    我每逢思想，心就驚惶，渾身戰兢。
Even when I remember I am afraid, and trembling taketh hold on my flesh.

21:7    惡人為何存活，享大壽數，勢力強盛呢。
Wherefore do the wicked live, become old, yea, are mighty in power?

21:8    他們眼見兒孫，和他們一同堅立。
Their seed is established in their sight with them, and their offspring before their eyes.

21:9    他們的家宅平安無懼。神的杖也不加在他們身上。
Their houses are safe from fear, neither is the rod of God upon them.

21:10    他們的公牛孳生而不斷絕。母牛下犢而不掉胎。
Their bull gendereth, and faileth not; their cow calveth, and casteth not her calf.

21:11    他們打發小孩子出去，多如羊群。他們的兒女踴躍跳舞。
They send forth their little ones like a flock, and their children dance.

21:12    他們隨著琴鼓歌唱，又因簫聲歡喜。
They take the timbrel and harp, and rejoice at the sound of the organ.

21:13    他們度日諸事亨通，轉眼下入陰間。
They spend their days in wealth, and in a moment go down to the grave.

21:14    他們對神說，離開我們吧。我們不願曉得你的道。
Therefore they say unto God, Depart from us; for we desire not the knowledge of thy ways.

21:15    全能者是誰，我們何必事奉他呢。求告他有什麼益處呢。
What is the Almighty, that we should serve him? and what profit should we have, if we pray unto him?

21:16    看哪，他們亨通不在乎自己。惡人所謀定的離我好遠。
Lo, their good is not in their hand: the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

21:17    惡人的燈何嘗熄滅。患難何嘗臨到他們呢。神何嘗發怒，向他們分散災禍呢。
How oft is the candle of the wicked put out! and how oft cometh their destruction upon them! God distributeth sorrows in his anger.

21:18    他們何嘗像風前的碎秸，如暴風颳去的糠秕呢。
They are as stubble before the wind, and as chaff that the storm carrieth away.

21:19    你們說，神為惡人的兒女積蓄罪孽。我說，不如本人受報，好使他親自知道。
God layeth up his iniquity for his children: he rewardeth him, and he shall know it.

21:20    願他親眼看見自己敗亡，親自飲全能者的忿怒。
His eyes shall see his destruction, and he shall drink of the wrath of the Almighty.

21:21    他的歲月既盡，他還顧他本家嗎。
For what pleasure hath he in his house after him, when the number of his months is cut off in the midst?

21:22    神既審判那在高位的，誰能將知識教訓他呢。
Shall any teach God knowledge? seeing he judgeth those that are high.

21:23    有人至死身體強壯，盡得平靖安逸。
One dieth in his full strength, being wholly at ease and quiet.

21:24    他的奶桶充滿，他的骨髓滋潤。
His breasts are full of milk, and his bones are moistened with marrow.

21:25    有人至死心中痛苦，終身未嘗福樂的滋味。
And another dieth in the bitterness of his soul, and never eateth with pleasure.

21:26    他們一樣躺臥在塵土中，都被蟲子遮蓋。
They shall lie down alike in the dust, and the worms shall cover them.

21:27    我知道你們的意思，並誣害我的計謀。
Behold, I know your thoughts, and the devices which ye wrongfully imagine against me.

21:28    你們說，霸者的房屋在那裡。惡人住過的帳棚在那裡。
For ye say, Where is the house of the prince? and where are the dwelling places of the wicked?

21:29    你們豈沒有詢問過路的人嗎。不知道他們所引的證據嗎。
Have ye not asked them that go by the way? and do ye not know their tokens,

21:30    就是惡人在禍患的日子得存留，在發怒的日子得逃脫。
That the wicked is reserved to the day of destruction? they shall be brought forth to the day of wrath.

21:31    他所行的，有誰當面給他說明。他所做的，有誰報應他呢。
Who shall declare his way to his face? and who shall repay him what he hath done?

21:32    然而他要被抬到塋地，並有人看守墳墓。
Yet shall he be brought to the grave, and shall remain in the tomb.

21:33    他要以谷中的土塊為甘甜，在他以先去的無數，在他以後去的更多。
The clods of the valley shall be sweet unto him, and every man shall draw after him, as there are innumerable before him.

21:34    你們對答的話中既都錯謬，怎嗎徒然安慰我呢。
How then comfort ye me in vain, seeing in your answers there remaineth falsehood?




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


22:1    毯螅人以利法回答說，
Then Eliphaz the Temanite answered and said,

22:2    人豈能使神有益呢。智慧人但能有益於己。
Can a man be profitable unto God, as he that is wise may be profitable unto himself?

22:3    你為人公義，豈叫全能者喜悅呢。你行為完全，豈能使他得利呢。
Is it any pleasure to the Almighty, that thou art righteous? or is it gain to him, that thou makest thy ways perfect?

22:4    豈是因你敬畏他，就責備你，審判你嗎。
Will he reprove thee for fear of thee? will he enter with thee into judgment?

22:5    你的罪惡豈不是大嗎。你的罪孽也沒有窮盡。
Is not thy wickedness great? and thine iniquities infinite?

22:6    因你無故強取弟兄的物為當頭，剝去貧寒人的衣服。
For thou hast taken a pledge from thy brother for nought, and stripped the naked of their clothing.

22:7    睏乏的人，你沒有給他水喝。飢餓的人，你沒有給他食物。
Thou hast not given water to the weary to drink, and thou hast withholden bread from the hungry.

22:8    有能力的人就得地土。尊貴的人也住在其中。
But as for the mighty man, he had the earth; and the honourable man dwelt in it.

22:9    你打發寡婦空手回去，折斷孤兒的膀臂。
Thou hast sent widows away empty, and the arms of the fatherless have been broken.

22:10    因此，有網羅環繞你，有恐懼忽然使你驚惶。
Therefore snares are round about thee, and sudden fear troubleth thee;

22:11    或有黑暗矇蔽你，並有洪水淹沒你。
Or darkness, that thou canst not see; and abundance of waters cover thee.

22:12    神豈不是在高天嗎。你看星宿何其高呢。
Is not God in the height of heaven? and behold the height of the stars, how high they are!

22:13    你說，神知道什麼。他豈能看透幽暗施行審判呢。
And thou sayest, How doth God know? can he judge through the dark cloud?

22:14    密雲將他遮蓋，使他不能看見。他周遊穹蒼。
Thick clouds are a covering to him, that he seeth not; and he walketh in the circuit of heaven.

22:15    你要依從上古的道嗎。這道是惡人所行的。
Hast thou marked the old way which wicked men have trodden?

22:16    他們未到死期，忽然除滅。根基毀壞，好像被江河衝去。
Which were cut down out of time, whose foundation was overflown with a flood:

22:17    他們向神說，離開我們吧。又說，全能者能把我們怎嗎樣呢。
Which said unto God, Depart from us: and what can the Almighty do for them?

22:18    那知，神以美物充滿他們的房屋。但惡人所謀定的離我好遠。
Yet he filled their houses with good things: but the counsel of the wicked is far from me.

22:19    義人看見他們的結局就歡喜。無辜的人嗤笑他們。
The righteous see it, and are glad: and the innocent laugh them to scorn.

22:20    說，那起來攻擊我們的果然被剪除，其餘的都被火燒滅。
Whereas our substance is not cut down, but the remnant of them the fire consumeth.

22:21    你若認識神，就得平安。福氣也必臨到你。
Acquaint now thyself with him, and be at peace: thereby good shall come unto thee.

22:22    你當領受他口中的教訓，將他的言語存在心裡。
Receive, I pray thee, the law from his mouth, and lay up his words in thine heart.

22:23    你若向全能者，從你帳棚中遠除不義，就必得建立。
If thou return to the Almighty, thou shalt be built up, thou shalt put away iniquity far from thy tabernacles.

22:24    要將你的珍寶丟在塵土裡，將俄斐的黃金丟在溪河石頭之間。
Then shalt thou lay up gold as dust, and the gold of Ophir as the stones of the brooks.

22:25    全能者就必為你的珍寶，作你的寶銀。
Yea, the Almighty shall be thy defence, and thou shalt have plenty of silver.

22:26    你就要以全能者為喜樂，向神仰起臉來。
For then shalt thou have thy delight in the Almighty, and shalt lift up thy face unto God.

22:27    你要禱告他，他就聽你。你也要還你的願。
Thou shalt make thy prayer unto him, and he shall hear thee, and thou shalt pay thy vows.

22:28    你定意要作何事，必然給你成就。亮光也必照耀你的路。
Thou shalt also decree a thing, and it shall be established unto thee: and the light shall shine upon thy ways.

22:29    人使你降卑，你仍可說，必得高升。謙卑的人神必拯救。
When men are cast down, then thou shalt say, There is lifting up; and he shall save the humble person.

22:30    人非無辜，神且要搭救他。他因你手中清潔，必蒙拯救。
He shall deliver the island of the innocent: and it is delivered by the pureness of thine hands.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


23:1    約伯回答說，
Then Job answered and said,

23:2    如今我的哀告還算為悖逆。我的責罰比我的唉哼還重。
Even to day is my complaint bitter: my stroke is heavier than my groaning.

23:3    惟願我能知道在那裡可以尋見神，能到他的臺前。
Oh that I knew where I might find him! that I might come even to his seat!

23:4    我就在他面前將我的案件陳明，滿口辯白。
I would order my cause before him, and fill my mouth with arguments.

23:5    我必知道他回答我的言語，明白他向我所說的話。
I would know the words which he would answer me, and understand what he would say unto me.

23:6    他豈用大能與我爭辯嗎。必不這樣，他必理會我。
Will he plead against me with his great power? No; but he would put strength in me.

23:7    在他那裡，正直人可以與他辯論。這樣，我必永遠脫離那審判我的。
There the righteous might dispute with him; so should I be delivered for ever from my judge.

23:8    只是，我往前行，他不在那裡，往後退，也不能見他。
Behold, I go forward, but he is not there; and backward, but I cannot perceive him:

23:9    他在左邊行事，我卻不能看見，在右邊隱藏，我也不能見他。
On the left hand, where he doth work, but I cannot behold him: he hideth himself on the right hand, that I cannot see him:

23:10    然而他知道我所行的路。他試煉我之後，我必如精金。
But he knoweth the way that I take: when he hath tried me, I shall come forth as gold.

23:11    我腳追隨他的步履。我謹守他的道，並不偏離。
My foot hath held his steps, his way have I kept, and not declined.

23:12    他嘴脣的命令，我未曾背棄。我看重他口中的言語，過於我需用的飲食。
Neither have I gone back from the commandment of his lips; I have esteemed the words of his mouth more than my necessary food.

23:13    只是他心志已定，誰能使他轉意呢。他心裡所願的，就行出來。
But he is in one mind, and who can turn him? and what his soul desireth, even that he doeth.

23:14    他向我所定的，就必做成。這類的事他還有許多。
For he performeth the thing that is appointed for me: and many such things are with him.

23:15    所以我在他面前驚惶，我思念這事，便懼怕他。
Therefore am I troubled at his presence: when I consider, I am afraid of him.

23:16    神使我喪膽，全能者使我驚惶。
For God maketh my heart soft, and the Almighty troubleth me:

23:17    我的恐懼，不是因為黑暗，也不是因為幽暗矇蔽我的臉。
Because I was not cut off before the darkness, neither hath he covered the darkness from my face.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


24:1    全能者既定期罰惡，為何不使認識他的人看見那日子呢。
Why, seeing times are not hidden from the Almighty, do they that know him not see his days?

24:2    有人挪移地界，搶奪群畜而牧養。
Some remove the landmarks; they violently take away flocks, and feed thereof.

24:3    他們拉去孤兒的驢，強取寡婦的牛為當頭。
They drive away the ass of the fatherless, they take the widow's ox for a pledge.

24:4    他們使窮人離開正道，世上的貧民盡都隱藏。
They turn the needy out of the way: the poor of the earth hide themselves together.

24:5    這些貧窮人，如同野驢出到曠野，殷勤尋梢食物。他們靠著野地給兒女餬口，
Behold, as wild asses in the desert, go they forth to their work; rising betimes for a prey: the wilderness yieldeth food for them and for their children.

24:6    收割別人田間的禾稼，摘取惡人餘剩的葡萄。
They reap every one his corn in the field: and they gather the vintage of the wicked.

24:7    終夜赤身無衣，天氣寒冷毫無遮蓋，
They cause the naked to lodge without clothing, that they have no covering in the cold.

24:8    在山上被大雨淋溼，因沒有避身之處就挨近磐石。
They are wet with the showers of the mountains, and embrace the rock for want of a shelter.

24:9    又有人從母懷中搶奪孤兒，強取窮人的衣服為當頭。
They pluck the fatherless from the breast, and take a pledge of the poor.

24:10    使人赤身無衣，到處流行，且因飢餓扛抬禾捆，
They cause him to go naked without clothing, and they take away the sheaf from the hungry;

24:11    在那些人的圍牆內造油，榨酒，自己還口渴。
Which make oil within their walls, and tread their winepresses, and suffer thirst.

24:12    在多民的城內有人唉哼，受傷的人哀號。神卻不理會（那惡人的愚妄。
Men groan from out of the city, and the soul of the wounded crieth out: yet God layeth not folly to them.

24:13    又有人背棄光明，不認識光明的道，不住在光明的路上。
They are of those that rebel against the light; they know not the ways thereof, nor abide in the paths thereof.

24:14    殺人的黎明起來，殺害困苦窮乏人，夜間又作盜賊。
The murderer rising with the light killeth the poor and needy, and in the night is as a thief.

24:15    姦夫等候黃昏，說，必無眼能見我，就把臉矇蔽。
The eye also of the adulterer waiteth for the twilight, saying, No eye shall see me: and disguiseth his face.

24:16    盜賊黑夜挖窟窿，白日躲藏，並不認識光明。
In the dark they dig through houses, which they had marked for themselves in the daytime: they know not the light.

24:17    他們看早晨如幽暗，因為他們曉得幽暗的驚駭。
For the morning is to them even as the shadow of death: if one know them, they are in the terrors of the shadow of death.

24:18    這些惡人猶如浮萍快快飄去。他們所得的分在世上被咒詛。他們不得再走葡萄園的路。
He is swift as the waters; their portion is cursed in the earth: he beholdeth not the way of the vineyards.

24:19    乾旱炎熱消沒雪水，陰間也如此消沒犯罪之輩。
Drought and heat consume the snow waters: so doth the grave those which have sinned.

24:20    懷他的母（原文是胎）要忘記他。蟲子要吃他，覺得甘甜。他不再被人記念。不義的人必如樹折斷。
The womb shall forget him; the worm shall feed sweetly on him; he shall be no more remembered; and wickedness shall be broken as a tree.

24:21    他惡待（或作他吞滅）不懷孕不生養的婦人，不善待寡婦。
He evil entreateth the barren that beareth not: and doeth not good to the widow.

24:22    然而神用能力保全有勢力的人，那性命難保的人仍然興起。
He draweth also the mighty with his power: he riseth up, and no man is sure of life.

24:23    神使他們安穩，他們就有所倚靠。神的眼目也看顧他們的道路。
Though it be given him to be in safety, whereon he resteth; yet his eyes are upon their ways.

24:24    他們被高舉，不過片時就沒有了。他們降為卑，被除滅，與眾人一樣，又如穀穗被割。
They are exalted for a little while, but are gone and brought low; they are taken out of the way as all other, and cut off as the tops of the ears of corn.

24:25    若不是這樣，誰能證實我是說謊的，將我的言語駁為虛空呢。
And if it be not so now, who will make me a liar, and make my speech nothing worth?




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


25:1    書亞人比勒達回答說，
Then answered Bildad the Shuhite, and said,

25:2    神有治理之權，有威嚴可畏。他在高處施行和平。
Dominion and fear are with him, he maketh peace in his high places.

25:3    他的諸軍，豈能數算。他的光亮一發，誰不蒙照呢。
Is there any number of his armies? and upon whom doth not his light arise?

25:4    這樣在神面前，人怎能稱義。婦人所生的怎能潔淨。
How then can man be justified with God? or how can he be clean that is born of a woman?

25:5    在神眼前，月亮也無光亮，星宿也不清潔。
Behold even to the moon, and it shineth not; yea, the stars are not pure in his sight.

25:6    何況如蟲的人，如蛆的世人呢。
How much less man, that is a worm? and the son of man, which is a worm?




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


26:1    約伯回答說，
But Job answered and said,

26:2    無能的人，蒙你何等的幫助。膀臂無力的人，蒙你何等的拯救。
How hast thou helped him that is without power? how savest thou the arm that hath no strength?

26:3    無智慧的人，蒙你何等的指教。你向他多顯大知識。
How hast thou counselled him that hath no wisdom? and how hast thou plentifully declared the thing as it is?



26:4    你向誰發出言語來。誰的靈從你而出。
To whom hast thou uttered words? and whose spirit came from thee?

26:5    在大水，和水族以下的陰魂，戰兢。
Dead things are formed from under the waters, and the inhabitants thereof.

26:6    在神面前，陰間顯露。滅亡也不得遮掩。
Hell is naked before him, and destruction hath no covering.

26:7    神將北極鋪在空中，將大地懸在虛空。
He stretcheth out the north over the empty place, and hangeth the earth upon nothing.

26:8    將水包在密雲中，雲卻不破裂。
He bindeth up the waters in his thick clouds; and the cloud is not rent under them.

26:9    遮蔽他的寶座，將雲鋪在其上。
He holdeth back the face of his throne, and spreadeth his cloud upon it.

26:10    在水面的周圍劃出界限，直到光明黑暗的交界。
He hath compassed the waters with bounds, until the day and night come to an end.

26:11    天的柱子，因他的斥責，震動驚奇。
The pillars of heaven tremble and are astonished at his reproof.

26:12    他以能力攪動（或作平靜）大海，他藉知識打傷拉哈伯。
He divideth the sea with his power, and by his understanding he smiteth through the proud.

26:13    藉他的靈使天有妝飾，他的手刺殺快蛇。
By his spirit he hath garnished the heavens; his hand hath formed the crooked serpent.

26:14    看哪，這不過是神工作的些微。我們所聽於他的，是何等細微的聲音。他大能的雷聲誰能明透呢。
Lo, these are parts of his ways: but how little a portion is heard of him? but the thunder of his power who can understand?




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


27:1    約伯接著說，
Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,

27:2    神奪去我的理，全能者使我心中愁苦。我指著永生的神起誓。
As God liveth, who hath taken away my judgment; and the Almighty, who hath vexed my soul;

27:3    我的生命尚在我裡面，神所賜呼吸之氣，仍在我的鼻孔內。
All the while my breath is in me, and the spirit of God is in my nostrils;

27:4    我的嘴決不說非義之言，我的舌也不說詭詐之語。
My lips shall not speak wickedness, nor my tongue utter deceit.

27:5    我斷不以你們為是，我至死必不以自己為不正。
God forbid that I should justify you: till I die I will not remove mine integrity from me.

27:6    我持定我的義，必不放鬆。在世的日子，我心必不責備我。
My righteousness I hold fast, and will not let it go: my heart shall not reproach me so long as I live.

27:7    願我的仇敵如惡人一樣。願那起來攻擊我的，如不義之人一般。
Let mine enemy be as the wicked, and he that riseth up against me as the unrighteous.

27:8    不敬虔的人雖然得利，神奪取其命的時候，還有什麼指望呢。
For what is the hope of the hypocrite, though he hath gained, when God taketh away his soul?

27:9    患難臨到他，神豈能聽他的呼求。
Will God hear his cry when trouble cometh upon him?

27:10    他豈以全能者為樂，隨時求告神呢。
Will he delight himself in the Almighty? will he always call upon God?

27:11    神的作為，我要指教你們。全能者所行的，我也不隱瞞。
I will teach you by the hand of God: that which is with the Almighty will I not conceal.

27:12    你們自己也都見過，為何全然變為虛妄呢。
Behold, all ye yourselves have seen it; why then are ye thus altogether vain?

27:13    神為惡人所定的分，強暴人從全能者所得的報（報原文作產業）乃是這樣。
This is the portion of a wicked man with God, and the heritage of oppressors, which they shall receive of the Almighty.

27:14    倘或他的兒女增多，還是被刀所殺。他的子孫必不得飽食。
If his children be multiplied, it is for the sword: and his offspring shall not be satisfied with bread.

27:15    他所遺留的人必死而埋葬，他的寡婦也不哀哭。
Those that remain of him shall be buried in death: and his widows shall not weep.

27:16    他雖積蓄銀子如塵沙，預備衣服如泥土。
Though he heap up silver as the dust, and prepare raiment as the clay;

27:17    他只管預備，義人卻要穿上。他的銀子，無辜的人要分取。
He may prepare it, but the just shall put it on, and the innocent shall divide the silver.

27:18    他建造房屋如蟲做窩，又如守望者所搭的棚。
He buildeth his house as a moth, and as a booth that the keeper maketh.

27:19    他雖富足躺臥，卻不得收殮，轉眼之間就不在了。
The rich man shall lie down, but he shall not be gathered: he openeth his eyes, and he is not.

27:20    驚恐如波濤將他追上。暴風在夜間將他颳去。
Terrors take hold on him as waters, a tempest stealeth him away in the night.

27:21    東風把他飄去，又刮他離開本處。
The east wind carrieth him away, and he departeth: and as a storm hurleth him out of his place.

27:22    神要向他射箭，並不留情。他恨不得逃脫神的手。
For God shall cast upon him, and not spare: he would fain flee out of his hand.

27:23    人要向他拍掌，並要發叱聲，使他離開本處。
Men shall clap their hands at him, and shall hiss him out of his place.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


28:1    銀子有礦，鍊金有方。
Surely there is a vein for the silver, and a place for gold where they fine it.

28:2    鐵從地裡挖出，銅從石中熔化。
Iron is taken out of the earth, and brass is molten out of the stone.

28:3    人為黑暗定界限，查究幽暗陰翳的石頭，直到極處。
He setteth an end to darkness, and searcheth out all perfection: the stones of darkness, and the shadow of death.

28:4    在無人居住之處刨開礦穴，過路的人也想不到他們。又與人遠離，懸在空中搖來搖去。
The flood breaketh out from the inhabitant; even the waters forgotten of the foot: they are dried up, they are gone away from men.

28:5    至於地，能出糧食，地內好像被火翻起來。
As for the earth, out of it cometh bread: and under it is turned up as it were fire.

28:6    地中的石頭有藍寶石，並有金沙。
The stones of it are the place of sapphires: and it hath dust of gold.

28:7    礦中的路鷙鳥不得知道，鷹眼也未見過。
There is a path which no fowl knoweth, and which the vulture's eye hath not seen:

28:8    狂傲的野獸未曾行過。猛烈的獅子也未曾經過。
The lion's whelps have not trodden it, nor the fierce lion passed by it.

28:9    人伸手鑿開堅石，傾倒山根。
He putteth forth his hand upon the rock; he overturneth the mountains by the roots.

28:10    在磐石中鑿出水道，親眼看見各樣寶物。
He cutteth out rivers among the rocks; and his eye seeth every precious thing.

28:11    他封閉水不得滴流，使隱藏的物顯露出來。
He bindeth the floods from overflowing; and the thing that is hid bringeth he forth to light.

28:12    然而，智慧有何處可尋。聰明之處在那裡呢。
But where shall wisdom be found? and where is the place of understanding?

28:13    智慧的價值無人能知，在活人之地也無處可尋。
Man knoweth not the price thereof; neither is it found in the land of the living.

28:14    深淵說，不在我內。滄海說，不在我中。
The depth saith, It is not in me: and the sea saith, It is not with me.

28:15    智慧非用黃金可得，也不能平白銀為它的價值。
It cannot be gotten for gold, neither shall silver be weighed for the price thereof.

28:16    俄斐金，和貴重的紅瑪瑙，並藍寶石，不足與較量。
It cannot be valued with the gold of Ophir, with the precious onyx, or the sapphire.

28:17    黃金，和玻璃，不足與比較。精金的器皿，不足與兌換。
The gold and the crystal cannot equal it: and the exchange of it shall not be for jewels of fine gold.

28:18    珊瑚，水晶都不足論。智慧的價值勝過珍珠（或作紅寶石）。
No mention shall be made of coral, or of pearls: for the price of wisdom is above rubies.

28:19    古實的紅璧璽，不足與比較。精金，也不足與較量。
The topaz of Ethiopia shall not equal it, neither shall it be valued with pure gold.

28:20    智慧從何處來呢。聰明之處在那裡呢。
Whence then cometh wisdom? and where is the place of understanding?

28:21    是向一切有生命的眼目隱藏，向空中的飛鳥掩蔽。
Seeing it is hid from the eyes of all living, and kept close from the fowls of the air.

28:22    滅沒和死亡說，我們風聞其名。
Destruction and death say, We have heard the fame thereof with our ears.

28:23    神明白智慧的道路，曉得智慧的所在。
God understandeth the way thereof, and he knoweth the place thereof.

28:24    因他鑑察直到地極，遍觀普天之下。
For he looketh to the ends of the earth, and seeth under the whole heaven;

28:25    要為風定輕重，又度量諸水。
To make the weight for the winds; and he weigheth the waters by measure.

28:26    他為雨露定命令，為雷電定道路。
When he made a decree for the rain, and a way for the lightning of the thunder:

28:27    那時他看見智慧，而且述說。他堅定，並且查究。
Then did he see it, and declare it; he prepared it, yea, and searched it out.

28:28    他對人說，敬畏主就是智慧。遠離惡便是聰明。
And unto man he said, Behold, the fear of the LORD, that is wisdom; and to depart from evil is understanding.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


29:1    約伯又接著說，
Moreover Job continued his parable, and said,

29:2    惟願我的景況如從前的月份，如神保守我的日子。
Oh that I were as in months past, as in the days when God preserved me;

29:3    那時他的燈照在我頭上。我藉他的光行過黑暗。
When his candle shined upon my head, and when by his light I walked through darkness;

29:4    我願如壯年的時候，那時我在帳棚中。神待我有密友之情。
As I was in the days of my youth, when the secret of God was upon my tabernacle;

29:5    全能者仍與我同在。我的兒女都環繞我。
When the Almighty was yet with me, when my children were about me;

29:6    奶多可洗我的腳。磐石為我出油成河。
When I washed my steps with butter, and the rock poured me out rivers of oil;

29:7    我出到城門，在街上設立座位。
When I went out to the gate through the city, when I prepared my seat in the street!

29:8    少年人見我而回避，老年人也起身站立。
The young men saw me, and hid themselves: and the aged arose, and stood up.

29:9    王子都停止說話，用手餬口。
The princes refrained talking, and laid their hand on their mouth.

29:10    首領靜默無聲，舌頭貼住上膛。
The nobles held their peace, and their tongue cleaved to the roof of their mouth.

29:11    耳朵聽我的，就稱我有福。眼睛看我的，便稱讚我。
When the ear heard me, then it blessed me; and when the eye saw me, it gave witness to me:

29:12    因我拯救哀求的困苦人，和無人幫助的孤兒。
Because I delivered the poor that cried, and the fatherless, and him that had none to help him.

29:13    將要滅亡的為我祝福。我也使寡婦心中歡樂。
The blessing of him that was ready to perish came upon me: and I caused the widow's heart to sing for joy.

29:14    我以公義為衣服，以公平為外袍和冠冕。
I put on righteousness, and it clothed me: my judgment was as a robe and a diadem.

29:15    我為瞎子的眼，瘸子的腳。
I was eyes to the blind, and feet was I to the lame.

29:16    我為窮乏人的父，素不認識的人，我查明他的案件。
I was a father to the poor: and the cause which I knew not I searched out.

29:17    我打破不義之人的牙床，從他牙齒中奪了所搶的。
And I brake the jaws of the wicked, and plucked the spoil out of his teeth.

29:18    我便說，我必死在家中（原文作窩中），必增添我的日子，多如塵沙。
Then I said, I shall die in my nest, and I shall multiply my days as the sand.

29:19    我的根長到水邊，露水終夜沾在我的枝上。
My root was spread out by the waters, and the dew lay all night upon my branch.

29:20    我的榮耀在身上增新，我的弓在手中日強。
My glory was fresh in me, and my bow was renewed in my hand.

29:21    人聽見我而仰望，靜默等候我的指教。
Unto me men gave ear, and waited, and kept silence at my counsel.

29:22    我說話之後，他們就不再說。我的言語像雨露滴在他們身上。
After my words they spake not again; and my speech dropped upon them.

29:23    他們仰望我如仰望雨，又張開口如切慕春雨。
And they waited for me as for the rain; and they opened their mouth wide as for the latter rain.

29:24    他們不敢自信，我就向他們含笑。他們不使我臉上的光改變。
If I laughed on them, they believed it not; and the light of my countenance they cast not down.

29:25    我為他們選擇道路，又坐首位。我如君王在軍隊中居住，又如弔喪的安慰傷心的人。
I chose out their way, and sat chief, and dwelt as a king in the army, as one that comforteth the mourners.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


30:1    但如今，比我年少的人戲笑我。其人之父我曾藐視，不肯安在看守我羊群的狗中。
But now they that are younger than I have me in derision, whose fathers I would have disdained to have set with the dogs of my flock.

30:2    他們壯年的氣力既已衰敗，其手之力與我何益呢。
Yea, whereto might the strength of their hands profit me, in whom old age was perished?

30:3    他們因窮乏飢餓，身體枯瘦，在荒廢淒涼的幽暗中齦乾燥之地。
For want and famine they were solitary; fleeing into the wilderness in former time desolate and waste.

30:4    在草叢之中採鹹草，羅騰（羅騰小樹名松類）的根為他們的食物。
Who cut up mallows by the bushes, and juniper roots for their meat.

30:5    他們從人中被趕出，人追喊他們如賊一般。
They were driven forth from among men, (they cried after them as after a thief;)

30:6    以致他們住在荒谷之間，在地洞和巖穴中。
To dwell in the cliffs of the valleys, in caves of the earth, and in the rocks.

30:7    在草叢中叫喚，在荊棘下聚集。
Among the bushes they brayed; under the nettles they were gathered together.

30:8    這都是愚頑下賤人的兒女，他們被鞭打，趕出境外。
They were children of fools, yea, children of base men: they were viler than the earth.

30:9    現在這些人以我為歌曲，以我為笑談。
And now am I their song, yea, I am their byword.

30:10    他們厭惡我，躲在旁邊站著，不住地吐唾沫在我臉上。
They abhor me, they flee far from me, and spare not to spit in my face.

30:11    鬆開他們的繩索苦待我，在我面前脫去轡頭。
Because he hath loosed my cord, and afflicted me, they have also let loose the bridle before me.

30:12    這等下流人在我右邊起來，推開我的腳，築成戰路來攻擊我。
Upon my right hand rise the youth; they push away my feet, and they raise up against me the ways of their destruction.

30:13    這些無人幫助的，毀壞我的道，加增我的災。
They mar my path, they set forward my calamity, they have no helper.

30:14    他們來如同闖進大破口，在毀壞之間滾在我身上。
They came upon me as a wide breaking in of waters: in the desolation they rolled themselves upon me.

30:15    驚恐臨到我，驅逐我的尊榮如風，我的福祿如雲過去。
Terrors are turned upon me: they pursue my soul as the wind: and my welfare passeth away as a cloud.

30:16    現在我心極其悲傷。困苦的日子將我抓住。
And now my soul is poured out upon me; the days of affliction have taken hold upon me.

30:17    夜間，我裡面的骨頭刺我，疼痛不止，好像齦我。
My bones are pierced in me in the night season: and my sinews take no rest.

30:18    因神的大力，我的外衣汙穢不堪，又如裡衣的領子將我纏住。
By the great force of my disease is my garment changed: it bindeth me about as the collar of my coat.

30:19    神把我扔在淤泥中，我就像塵土和爐灰一般。
He hath cast me into the mire, and I am become like dust and ashes.

30:20    主阿，我呼求你，你不應允我。我站起來，你就定睛看我。
I cry unto thee, and thou dost not hear me: I stand up, and thou regardest me not.

30:21    你向我變心，待我殘忍，又用大能追逼我。
Thou art become cruel to me: with thy strong hand thou opposest thyself against me.

30:22    把我提在風中，使我駕風而行，又使我消滅在烈風中。
Thou liftest me up to the wind; thou causest me to ride upon it, and dissolvest my substance.

30:23    我知道要使我臨到死地，到那為眾生所定的陰宅。
For I know that thou wilt bring me to death, and to the house appointed for all living.

30:24    然而，人仆倒豈不伸手。遇災難豈不求救呢。
Howbeit he will not stretch out his hand to the grave, though they cry in his destruction.

30:25    人遭難，我豈不為他哭泣呢。人窮乏，我豈不為他憂愁呢。
Did not I weep for him that was in trouble? was not my soul grieved for the poor?

30:26    我仰望得好處，災禍就到了。我等待光明，黑暗便來了。
When I looked for good, then evil came unto me: and when I waited for light, there came darkness.

30:27    我心裡煩擾不安，困苦的日子臨到我身。
My bowels boiled, and rested not: the days of affliction prevented me.

30:28    我沒有日光就哀哭行去（或作我面發黑並非因日晒）。我在會中站著求救。
I went mourning without the sun: I stood up, and I cried in the congregation.

30:29    我與野狗為弟兄，與鴕鳥為同伴。
I am a brother to dragons, and a companion to owls.

30:30    我的面板黑而脫落，我的骨頭因熱燒焦。
My skin is black upon me, and my bones are burned with heat.

30:31    所以，我的琴音變為悲音，我的簫聲變為哭聲。
My harp also is turned to mourning, and my organ into the voice of them that weep.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


31:1    我與眼睛立約，怎能戀戀瞻望處女呢。
I made a covenant with mine eyes; why then should I think upon a maid?

31:2    從至上的神所得之分，從至高全能者所得之業，是什麼呢。
For what portion of God is there from above? and what inheritance of the Almighty from on high?

31:3    豈不是禍患臨到不義的，災害臨到作孽的呢。
Is not destruction to the wicked? and a strange punishment to the workers of iniquity?

31:4    神豈不是察看我的道路，數點我的腳步呢。
Doth not he see my ways, and count all my steps?

31:5    我若與虛謊同行，腳若追隨詭詐。
If I have walked with vanity, or if my foot hath hasted to deceit;

31:6    我若被公道的天平稱度，使神可以知道我的純正。
Let me be weighed in an even balance that God may know mine integrity.

31:7    我的腳步若偏離正路，我的心若隨著我的眼目，若有玷汙粘在我手上。
If my step hath turned out of the way, and mine heart walked after mine eyes, and if any blot hath cleaved to mine hands;

31:8    就願我所種的有別人吃，我田所產的被拔出來。
Then let me sow, and let another eat; yea, let my offspring be rooted out.

31:9    我若受迷惑，向婦人起淫念，在鄰舍的門外蹲伏。
If mine heart have been deceived by a woman, or if I have laid wait at my neighbour's door;

31:10    就願我的妻子給別人推磨，別人也與她同室。
Then let my wife grind unto another, and let others bow down upon her.

31:11    因為這是大罪，是審判官當罰的罪孽。
For this is an heinous crime; yea, it is an iniquity to be punished by the judges.

31:12    這本是火焚燒，直到毀滅，必拔除我所有的家產。
For it is a fire that consumeth to destruction, and would root out all mine increase.



31:13    我的僕婢與我爭辯的時候，我若藐視不聽他們的情節。
If I did despise the cause of my manservant or of my maidservant, when they contended with me;

31:14    神興起，我怎樣行呢。他察問，我怎樣回答呢。
What then shall I do when God riseth up? and when he visiteth, what shall I answer him?

31:15    造我在腹中的，不也是造他嗎。將他與我摶在腹中的，豈不是一位嗎。
Did not he that made me in the womb make him? and did not one fashion us in the womb?

31:16    我若不容貧寒人得其所願，或叫寡婦眼中失望，
If I have withheld the poor from their desire, or have caused the eyes of the widow to fail;

31:17    或獨自吃我一點食物，孤兒沒有與我同吃。
Or have eaten my morsel myself alone, and the fatherless hath not eaten thereof;

31:18    （從幼年時孤兒與我同長，好像父子一樣。我從出母腹就扶助寡婦）。（扶助原文作引領）
(For from my youth he was brought up with me, as with a father, and I have guided her from my mother's womb;)

31:19    我若見人因無衣死亡，或見窮乏人身無遮蓋。
If I have seen any perish for want of clothing, or any poor without covering;

31:20    我若不使他因我羊的毛得暖，為我祝福。
If his loins have not blessed me, and if he were not warmed with the fleece of my sheep;

31:21    我若在城門口見有幫助我的，舉手攻擊孤兒。
If I have lifted up my hand against the fatherless, when I saw my help in the gate:

31:22    情願我的肩頭從缺盆骨脫落，我的膀臂從羊矢骨折斷。
Then let mine arm fall from my shoulder blade, and mine arm be broken from the bone.

31:23    因神降的災禍使我恐懼。因他的威嚴，我不能妄為。
For destruction from God was a terror to me, and by reason of his highness I could not endure.

31:24    我若以黃金為指望，對精金說，你是我的倚靠。
If I have made gold my hope, or have said to the fine gold, Thou art my confidence;

31:25    我若因財物豐裕，因我手多得資財而歡喜。
If I rejoiced because my wealth was great, and because mine hand had gotten much;

31:26    我若見太陽發光，明月行在空中，
If I beheld the sun when it shined, or the moon walking in brightness;

31:27    心就暗暗被引誘，口便親手。
And my heart hath been secretly enticed, or my mouth hath kissed my hand:

31:28    這也是審判官當罰的罪孽，又是我背棄在上的神。
This also were an iniquity to be punished by the judge: for I should have denied the God that is above.

31:29    我若見恨我的遭報就歡喜，見他遭災便高興。
If I rejoiced at the destruction of him that hated me, or lifted up myself when evil found him:

31:30    （我沒有容口犯罪，咒詛他的生命）
Neither have I suffered my mouth to sin by wishing a curse to his soul.

31:31    若我帳棚的人未嘗說，誰不以主人的食物吃飽呢。
If the men of my tabernacle said not, Oh that we had of his flesh! we cannot be satisfied.

31:32    （從來我沒有容客旅在街上住宿，卻開門迎接行路的人）
The stranger did not lodge in the street: but I opened my doors to the traveller.

31:33    我若像亞當（或作別人）遮掩我的過犯，將罪孽藏在懷中。
If I covered my transgressions as Adam, by hiding mine iniquity in my bosom:

31:34    因懼怕大眾，又因宗族藐視我使我驚恐，以致閉口無言，杜門不出。
Did I fear a great multitude, or did the contempt of families terrify me, that I kept silence, and went not out of the door?

31:35    惟願有一位肯聽我。（看哪，在這裡有我所劃的押，願全能者回答我）
Oh that one would hear me! behold, my desire is, that the Almighty would answer me, and that mine adversary had written a book.

31:36    願那敵我者，所寫的狀詞在我這裡，我必帶在肩上，又綁在頭上為冠冕。
Surely I would take it upon my shoulder, and bind it as a crown to me.

31:37    我必向他述說我腳步的數目，必如君王進到他面前。
I would declare unto him the number of my steps; as a prince would I go near unto him.

31:38    我若奪取田地，這地向我喊冤，犁溝一同哭泣。
If my land cry against me, or that the furrows likewise thereof complain;

31:39    我若吃地的出產不給價值，或叫原主喪命。
If I have eaten the fruits thereof without money, or have caused the owners thereof to lose their life:

31:40    願這地長蒺藜代替麥子，長惡草代替大麥。約伯的話說完了。
Let thistles grow instead of wheat, and cockle instead of barley. The words of Job are ended.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


32:1    於是這三個人，因約伯自以為義就，不再回答他。
So these three men ceased to answer Job, because he was righteous in his own eyes.

32:2    那時有布西人，蘭族巴拉迦的兒子，以利戶向約伯發怒。因約伯自以為義，不以神為義。
Then was kindled the wrath of Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite, of the kindred of Ram: against Job was his wrath kindled, because he justified himself rather than God.

32:3    他又向約伯的三個朋友發怒。因為他們想不出回答的話來，仍以約伯為有罪。
Also against his three friends was his wrath kindled, because they had found no answer, and yet had condemned Job.

32:4    以利戶要與約伯說話，就等候他們，因為他們比自己年老。
Now Elihu had waited till Job had spoken, because they were elder than he.

32:5    以利戶見這三個人口中無話回答，就怒氣發作。
When Elihu saw that there was no answer in the mouth of these three men, then his wrath was kindled.

32:6    布西人，巴拉迦的兒子，以利戶回答說，我年輕，你們老邁。因此我退讓，不敢向你們陳說我的意見。
And Elihu the son of Barachel the Buzite answered and said, I am young, and ye are very old; wherefore I was afraid, and durst not shew you mine opinion.

32:7    我說，年老的當先說話。壽高的當以智慧教訓人。
I said, Days should speak, and multitude of years should teach wisdom.

32:8    但在人裡面有靈，全能者的氣使趟有聰明。
But there is a spirit in man: and the inspiration of the Almighty giveth them understanding.

32:9    尊貴的不都有智慧。壽高的不都能明白公平。
Great men are not always wise: neither do the aged understand judgment.

32:10    因此我說，你們要聽我言，我也要陳說我的意見。
Therefore I said, Hearken to me; I also will shew mine opinion.

32:11    你們查究所要說的話。那時我等候你們的話，側耳聽你們的辯論。
Behold, I waited for your words; I gave ear to your reasons, whilst ye searched out what to say.

32:12    留心聽你們。誰知你們中間無一人折服約伯，駁倒他的話。
Yea, I attended unto you, and, behold, there was none of you that convinced Job, or that answered his words:

32:13    你們切不可說，我們尋得智慧。神能勝他，人卻不能。
Lest ye should say, We have found out wisdom: God thrusteth him down, not man.

32:14    約伯沒有向我爭辯。我也不用你們的話回答他。
Now he hath not directed his words against me: neither will I answer him with your speeches.

32:15    他們驚奇不再回答，一言不發。
They were amazed, they answered no more: they left off speaking.

32:16    我豈因他們不說話，站住不再回答，仍舊等候呢。
When I had waited, (for they spake not, but stood still, and answered no more;)

32:17    我也要回答我的一分話，陳說我的意見。
I said, I will answer also my part, I also will shew mine opinion.

32:18    因為我的言語滿懷。我裡面的靈激動我。
For I am full of matter, the spirit within me constraineth me.

32:19    我的胸懷如盛酒之囊，沒有出氣之縫，又如新皮袋快要破裂。
Behold, my belly is as wine which hath no vent; it is ready to burst like new bottles.

32:20    我要說話，使我舒暢。我要開口回答。
I will speak, that I may be refreshed: I will open my lips and answer.

32:21    我必不看人的情面，也不奉承人。
Let me not, I pray you, accept any man's person, neither let me give flattering titles unto man.

32:22    我不曉得奉承。若奉承，造我的主必快快除滅我。
For I know not to give flattering titles; in so doing my maker would soon take me away.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


33:1    約伯阿，請聽我的話，留心聽我一切的言語。
Wherefore, Job, I pray thee, hear my speeches, and hearken to all my words.

33:2    我現在開口，用舌發言。
Behold, now I have opened my mouth, my tongue hath spoken in my mouth.

33:3    我的言語要發明心中所存的正直。我所知道的，我嘴脣要誠實地說出。
My words shall be of the uprightness of my heart: and my lips shall utter knowledge clearly.

33:4    神的靈造我，全能者的氣使我得生。
The spirit of God hath made me, and the breath of the Almighty hath given me life.

33:5    你若回答我，就站起來，在我面前陳明。
If thou canst answer me, set thy words in order before me, stand up.

33:6    我在神面前與你一樣，也是用土造成。
Behold, I am according to thy wish in God's stead: I also am formed out of the clay.

33:7    我不用威嚴驚嚇你，也不用勢力重壓你。
Behold, my terror shall not make thee afraid, neither shall my hand be heavy upon thee.

33:8    你所說的，我聽見了，也聽見你的言語，說，
Surely thou hast spoken in mine hearing, and I have heard the voice of thy words, saying,

33:9    我是清潔無過的，我是無辜的。在我裡面也沒有罪孽。
I am clean without transgression, I am innocent; neither is there iniquity in me.

33:10    神找機會攻擊我，以我為仇敵，
Behold, he findeth occasions against me, he counteth me for his enemy,

33:11    把我的腳上了木狗，窺察我一切的道路。
He putteth my feet in the stocks, he marketh all my paths.

33:12    我要回答你說，你這話無理，因神比世人更大。
Behold, in this thou art not just: I will answer thee, that God is greater than man.

33:13    你為何與他爭論呢。因他的事都不對人解說。
Why dost thou strive against him? for he giveth not account of any of his matters.

33:14    神說一次，兩次，世人卻不理會。
For God speaketh once, yea twice, yet man perceiveth it not.

33:15    人躺在床上沉睡的時候，神就用夢，和夜間的異象，
In a dream, in a vision of the night, when deep sleep falleth upon men, in slumberings upon the bed;

33:16    開通他們的耳朵，將當受的教訓印在他們心上，
Then he openeth the ears of men, and sealeth their instruction,

33:17    好叫人不從自己的謀算，不行驕傲的事。（原文作將驕傲向人隱藏）
That he may withdraw man from his purpose, and hide pride from man.

33:18    攔阻人不陷於坑裡，不死在刀下。
He keepeth back his soul from the pit, and his life from perishing by the sword.

33:19    人在床上被懲治，骨頭中不住地疼痛。
He is chastened also with pain upon his bed, and the multitude of his bones with strong pain:

33:20    以致他的口厭棄食物，心厭惡美味。
So that his life abhorreth bread, and his soul dainty meat.

33:21    他的肉消瘦，不得再見。先前不見的骨頭都凸出來。
His flesh is consumed away, that it cannot be seen; and his bones that were not seen stick out.

33:22    他的靈魂臨近深坑。他的生命近於滅命的。
Yea, his soul draweth near unto the grave, and his life to the destroyers.

33:23    一千天使中，若有一個作傳話的與神同在，指示人所當行的事。
If there be a messenger with him, an interpreter, one among a thousand, to shew unto man his uprightness:

33:24    神就給他開恩，說，救贖他免得下坑。我已經得了贖價。
Then he is gracious unto him, and saith, Deliver him from going down to the pit: I have found a ransom.

33:25    他的肉要比孩童的肉更嫩。他就返老還童。
His flesh shall be fresher than a child's: he shall return to the days of his youth:

33:26    他禱告神，神就喜悅他，使他歡呼朝見神的面。神又看他為義。
He shall pray unto God, and he will be favourable unto him: and he shall see his face with joy: for he will render unto man his righteousness.

33:27    他在人前歌唱說，我犯了罪，顛倒是非，這竟與我無益。
He looketh upon men, and if any say, I have sinned, and perverted that which was right, and it profited me not;

33:28    神救贖我的靈魂免入深坑。我的生命也必見光。
He will deliver his soul from going into the pit, and his life shall see the light.

33:29    神兩次，三次，向人行這一切的事。
Lo, all these things worketh God oftentimes with man,

33:30    為要從深坑救回人的靈魂，使他被光照耀與活人一樣。
To bring back his soul from the pit, to be enlightened with the light of the living.

33:31    約伯阿，你當側耳聽我的話，不要作聲，等我講說。
Mark well, O Job, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I will speak.

33:32    你若有話說，就可以回答我。你只管說，因我願以你為是。
If thou hast anything to say, answer me: speak, for I desire to justify thee.

33:33    若不然，你就聽我說。你不要作聲，我便將智慧教訓你。
If not, hearken unto me: hold thy peace, and I shall teach thee wisdom.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


34:1    以利戶又說，
Furthermore Elihu answered and said,

34:2    你們智慧人，要聽我的話。有知識的人，要留心聽我說。
Hear my words, O ye wise men; and give ear unto me, ye that have knowledge.

34:3    因為耳朵試驗話語，好像上膛嘗食物。
For the ear trieth words, as the mouth tasteth meat.

34:4    我們當選擇何為是，彼此知道何為善。
Let us choose to us judgment: let us know among ourselves what is good.

34:5    約伯曾說，我是公義，神奪去我的理。
For Job hath said, I am righteous: and God hath taken away my judgment.

34:6    我雖有理，還算為說謊言的。我雖無過，受的傷還不能醫治。
Should I lie against my right? my wound is incurable without transgression.

34:7    誰像約伯，喝譏誚如同喝水呢。
What man is like Job, who drinketh up scorning like water?

34:8    他與作孽的結伴，和惡人同行。
Which goeth in company with the workers of iniquity, and walketh with wicked men.

34:9    他說，人以神為樂，總是無益。
For he hath said, It profiteth a man nothing that he should delight himself with God.

34:10    所以你們明理的人，要聽我的話。神斷旁不至行惡，全能者斷不至作孽。
Therefore hearken unto me ye men of understanding: far be it from God, that he should do wickedness; and from the Almighty, that he should commit iniquity.

34:11    他必按人所作的報應人，使各人照所行的得報。
For the work of a man shall he render unto him, and cause every man to find according to his ways.

34:12    神必不作惡，全能者也不偏離公平。
Yea, surely God will not do wickedly, neither will the Almighty pervert judgment.

34:13    誰派他治理地，安定全世界呢。
Who hath given him a charge over the earth? or who hath disposed the whole world?

34:14    他若專心為己，將靈和氣收歸自己。
If he set his heart upon man, if he gather unto himself his spirit and his breath;

34:15    凡有血氣的就必一同死亡，世人必仍歸塵土。
All flesh shall perish together, and man shall turn again unto dust.

34:16    你若明理，就當聽我的話，留心聽我言語的聲音。
If now thou hast understanding, hear this: hearken to the voice of my words.

34:17    難道恨惡公平的可以掌權嗎。那有公義的，有大能的，豈可定他有罪嗎。
Shall even he that hateth right govern? and wilt thou condemn him that is most just?

34:18    他對君王說，你是鄙陋的。對貴臣說，你是邪惡的。
Is it fit to say to a king, Thou art wicked? and to princes, Ye are ungodly?

34:19    他待王子不徇情面，也不看重富足的過於貧窮的，因為都是他手所造。
How much less to him that accepteth not the persons of princes, nor regardeth the rich more than the poor? for they all are the work of his hands.

34:20    在轉眼之間，半夜之中，他們就死亡。百姓被震動而去世。有權力的被奪去非借人手。
In a moment shall they die, and the people shall be troubled at midnight, and pass away: and the mighty shall be taken away without hand.

34:21    神注目觀看人的道路，看明人的腳步。
For his eyes are upon the ways of man, and he seeth all his goings.

34:22    沒有黑暗，陰翳能給作孽的藏身。
There is no darkness, nor shadow of death, where the workers of iniquity may hide themselves.

34:23    神審判人，不必使人到他面前再三鑑察。
For he will not lay upon man more than right; that he should enter into judgment with God.

34:24    他用難測之法，打破有能力的人，設立別人代替他們。
He shall break in pieces mighty men without number, and set others in their stead.

34:25    他原知道他們的行為，使他們在夜間傾倒滅亡。
Therefore he knoweth their works, and he overturneth them in the night, so that they are destroyed.

34:26    他在眾人眼前擊打他們，如同擊打惡人一樣。
He striketh them as wicked men in the open sight of others;

34:27    因為他們偏行不跟從他，也不留心他的道，
Because they turned back from him, and would not consider any of his ways:

34:28    甚至使貧窮人的哀聲，達到他那裡。他也聽了困苦人的哀聲。
So that they cause the cry of the poor to come unto him, and he heareth the cry of the afflicted.

34:29    他使人安靜，誰能擾亂（或作定罪）呢，他掩面誰能見他呢。無論待一國，或一人都是如此。
When he giveth quietness, who then can make trouble? and when he hideth his face, who then can behold him? whether it be done against a nation, or against a man only:

34:30    使不虔敬的人不得作王，免得有人牢寵百姓。
That the hypocrite reign not, lest the people be ensnared.

34:31    有誰對神說，我受了責罰，不再犯罪。
Surely it is meet to be said unto God, I have borne chastisement, I will not offend any more:

34:32    我所看不明的，求你指教我。我若作了孽，必不再作。
That which I see not teach thou me: if I have done iniquity, I will do no more.

34:33    他施行報應，豈要隨你的心願，叫你推辭不受嗎。選定的是你，不是我。你所知道的只管說吧。
Should it be according to thy mind? he will recompense it, whether thou refuse, or whether thou choose; and not I: therefore speak what thou knowest.

34:34    明理的人，和聽我話的智慧人，必對我說。
Let men of understanding tell me, and let a wise man hearken unto me.

34:35    約伯說話沒有知識，言語中毫無智慧。
Job hath spoken without knowledge, and his words were without wisdom.

34:36    願約伯被試驗到底，因他回答像惡人一樣。
My desire is that Job may be tried unto the end because of his answers for wicked men.

34:37    他在罪上又加悖逆。在我們中間拍手，用許多言語輕慢神。
For he addeth rebellion unto his sin, he clappeth his hands among us, and multiplieth his words against God.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


35:1    以利戶又說，
Elihu spake moreover, and said,

35:2    你以為有理，或以為你的公義勝於神的公義，
Thinkest thou this to be right, that thou saidst, My righteousness is more than God's?

35:3    才說這與我有什麼益處。我不犯罪比犯罪有什麼好處呢。
For thou saidst, What advantage will it be unto thee? and, What profit shall I have, if I be cleansed from my sin?

35:4    我要回答你，和在你這裡的朋友。
I will answer thee, and thy companions with thee.

35:5    你要向天觀看，瞻望那高於你的穹蒼。
Look unto the heavens, and see; and behold the clouds which are higher than thou.

35:6    你若犯罪，能使神受何害呢。你的過犯加增，能使神受何損呢。
If thou sinnest, what doest thou against him? or if thy transgressions be multiplied, what doest thou unto him?

35:7    你若是公義，還能加增他什麼呢。他從你手裡還接受什麼呢。
If thou be righteous, what givest thou him? or what receiveth he of thine hand?

35:8    你的過惡，或能害你這類的人。你的公義，或能叫世人得益處。
Thy wickedness may hurt a man as thou art; and thy righteousness may profit the son of man.

35:9    人因多受欺壓就哀求，因受能者的轄制（轄制原文作膀臂）便求救。
By reason of the multitude of oppressions they make the oppressed to cry: they cry out by reason of the arm of the mighty.

35:10    卻無人說，造我的神在那裡。他使人夜間歌唱。
But none saith, Where is God my maker, who giveth songs in the night;

35:11    教訓我們勝於地上的走獸，使我們有聰明勝於空中的飛鳥。
Who teacheth us more than the beasts of the earth, and maketh us wiser than the fowls of heaven?

35:12    他們在那裡，因惡人的驕傲呼求，卻無人答應。
There they cry, but none giveth answer, because of the pride of evil men.

35:13    虛妄的呼求，神必不垂聽。全能者也必不眷顧。
Surely God will not hear vanity, neither will the Almighty regard it.

35:14    何況你說，你不得見他。你的案件在他面前，你等候他吧。
Although thou sayest thou shalt not see him, yet judgment is before him; therefore trust thou in him.

35:15    但如今因他未曾發怒降罰，也不甚理會狂傲，
But now, because it is not so, he hath visited in his anger; yet he knoweth it not in great extremity:

35:16    所以約伯開口說虛妄的話，多發無知識的言語。
Therefore doth Job open his mouth in vain; he multiplieth words without knowledge.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


36:1    以利戶又接著說，
Elihu also proceeded, and said,

36:2    你再容我片時，我就指示你，因我還有話為神說。
Suffer me a little, and I will shew thee that I have yet to speak on God's behalf.

36:3    我要將所知道的從遠處引來，將公義歸給造我的主。
I will fetch my knowledge from afar, and will ascribe righteousness to my Maker.

36:4    我的言語真不虛謊。有知識全備的與你同在。
For truly my words shall not be false: he that is perfect in knowledge is with thee.

36:5    神有大能，並不藐視人。他的智慧甚廣。
Behold, God is mighty, and despiseth not any: he is mighty in strength and wisdom.

36:6    他不保護惡人的性命，卻為困苦人伸冤。
He preserveth not the life of the wicked: but giveth right to the poor.

36:7    他時常看顧義人，使他們和君王同坐寶座，永遠要被高舉。
He withdraweth not his eyes from the righteous: but with kings are they on the throne; yea, he doth establish them for ever, and they are exalted.

36:8    他們若被鎖鏈捆住，被苦難的繩索纏住，
And if they be bound in fetters, and be holden in cords of affliction;

36:9    他就把他們的作為，和過犯指示他們，叫他們知道有驕傲的行動。
Then he sheweth them their work, and their transgressions that they have exceeded.

36:10    他也開通他們的耳朵，得受教訓，吩咐他們離開罪孽轉回。
He openeth also their ear to discipline, and commandeth that they return from iniquity.

36:11    他們若聽從事奉他，就必度日亨通，歷年福樂。
If they obey and serve him, they shall spend their days in prosperity, and their years in pleasures.

36:12    若不聽從，就要被刀殺滅，無知無識而死。
But if they obey not, they shall perish by the sword, and they shall die without knowledge.

36:13    那心中不敬虔的人積蓄怒氣。神捆綁他們，他們竟不求救。
But the hypocrites in heart heap up wrath: they cry not when he bindeth them.

36:14    必在青年時死亡，與汙穢人一樣喪命。
They die in youth, and their life is among the unclean.

36:15    神藉著困苦救拔困苦人，趁他們受欺壓，開通他們的耳朵。
He delivereth the poor in his affliction, and openeth their ears in oppression.

36:16    神也必引你出離患難，進入寬闊不狹窄之地。擺在你席上的必滿有肥甘。
Even so would he have removed thee out of the strait into a broad place, where there is no straitness; and that which should be set on thy table should be full of fatness.

36:17    但你滿口有惡人批評的言語。判斷和刑罰抓住你。
But thou hast fulfilled the judgment of the wicked: judgment and justice take hold on thee.

36:18    不可容忿怒觸動你，使你不服責罰。也不可因贖價大就偏行。
Because there is wrath, beware lest he take thee away with his stroke: then a great ransom cannot deliver thee.

36:19    你的呼求（或作資財），或是你一切的勢力，果有靈驗，叫你不受患難嗎。
Will he esteem thy riches? no, not gold, nor all the forces of strength.

36:20    不要切慕黑夜，就是眾民在本處被除滅的時候。
Desire not the night, when people are cut off in their place.

36:21    你要謹慎，不可重看罪孽，因你選擇罪孽，過於選擇苦難。
Take heed, regard not iniquity: for this hast thou chosen rather than affliction.

36:22    神行事有高大的能力。教訓人的有誰像他呢。
Behold, God exalteth by his power: who teacheth like him?

36:23    誰派定他的道路。誰能說，你所行的不義。
Who hath enjoined him his way? or who can say, Thou hast wrought iniquity?

36:24    你不可忘記稱讚他所行的為大，就是人所歌頌的。
Remember that thou magnify his work, which men behold.

36:25    他所行的，萬人都看見，世人也從遠處觀看。
Every man may see it; man may behold it afar off.

36:26    神為大，我們不能全知，他的年數不能測度。
Behold, God is great, and we know him not, neither can the number of his years be searched out.

36:27    他吸取水點，這水點從雲霧中就變成雨。
For he maketh small the drops of water: they pour down rain according to the vapour thereof:

36:28    雲彩將雨落下，沛然降與世人。
Which the clouds do drop and distil upon man abundantly.



36:29    誰能明白雲彩如何鋪張，和神行宮的雷聲呢。
Also can any understand the spreadings of the clouds, or the noise of his tabernacle?

36:30    他將亮光普照在自己的四圍。他又遮覆海底。
Behold, he spreadeth his light upon it, and covereth the bottom of the sea.

36:31    他用這些審判眾民，且賜豐富的糧食。
For by them judgeth he the people; he giveth meat in abundance.

36:32    他以電光遮手，命閃電擊中敵人（或作中了靶子）。
With clouds he covereth the light; and commandeth it not to shine by the cloud that cometh betwixt.

36:33    所發的雷聲顯明他的作為，又向牲畜指明要起暴風。
The noise thereof sheweth concerning it, the cattle also concerning the vapour.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 37 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


37:1    因此我心戰兢，從原處移動。
At this also my heart trembleth, and is moved out of his place.

37:2    聽阿，神轟轟的聲音，是他口中所發的響聲。
Hear attentively the noise of his voice, and the sound that goeth out of his mouth.

37:3    他發響聲震遍天下，發電光閃到地極。
He directeth it under the whole heaven, and his lightning unto the ends of the earth.

37:4    隨後人聽見有雷聲轟轟，大發威嚴，雷電接連不斷。
After it a voice roareth: he thundereth with the voice of his excellency; and he will not stay them when his voice is heard.

37:5    神發出奇妙的雷聲，他行大事，我們不能測透。
God thundereth marvellously with his voice; great things doeth he, which we cannot comprehend.

37:6    他對雪說，要降在地上，對大雨和暴雨也是這樣說。
For he saith to the snow, Be thou on the earth; likewise to the small rain, and to the great rain of his strength.

37:7    他封住各人的手，叫所造的萬人，都曉得他的作為。
He sealeth up the hand of every man; that all men may know his work.

37:8    百獸進入穴中，臥在洞內。
Then the beasts go into dens, and remain in their places.

37:9    暴風出於南宮。寒冷出於北方。
Out of the south cometh the whirlwind: and cold out of the north.

37:10    神噓氣成冰。寬闊之水也都凝結。
By the breath of God frost is given: and the breadth of the waters is straitened.

37:11    他使密雲盛滿水氣，佈散電光之雲。
Also by watering he wearieth the thick cloud: he scattereth his bright cloud:

37:12    這雲是藉他的指引遊行旋轉，得以在全地面上，行他一切所吩咐的，
And it is turned round about by his counsels: that they may do whatsoever he commandeth them upon the face of the world in the earth.

37:13    或為責罰，或為潤地，或為施行慈愛。
He causeth it to come, whether for correction, or for his land, or for mercy.

37:14    約伯阿，你要留心聽，要站立思想神奇妙的作為。
Hearken unto this, O Job: stand still, and consider the wondrous works of God.

37:15    神如何吩咐這些，如何使雲中的電光照耀，你知道嗎。
Dost thou know when God disposed them, and caused the light of his cloud to shine?

37:16    雲彩如何浮於空中，那知識全備者奇妙的作為，你知道嗎。
Dost thou know the balancings of the clouds, the wondrous works of him which is perfect in knowledge?

37:17    南風使地寂靜，你的衣服就如火熱，你知道嗎。
How thy garments are warm, when he quieteth the earth by the south wind?

37:18    你豈能與神同鋪穹蒼嗎。這穹蒼堅硬，如同鑄成的鏡子。
Hast thou with him spread out the sky, which is strong, and as a molten looking glass?

37:19    我們愚昧不能陳說。請你指教我們該對他說什麼話。
Teach us what we shall say unto him; for we cannot order our speech by reason of darkness.

37:20    人豈可說，我願與他說話。豈有人自願滅亡嗎。
Shall it be told him that I speak? if a man speak, surely he shall be swallowed up.



37:21    現在有云遮蔽，人不得見穹蒼的光亮。但風吹過，天又發晴。
And now men see not the bright light which is in the clouds: but the wind passeth, and cleanseth them.

37:22    金光出於北方，在神那裡有可怕的威嚴。
Fair weather cometh out of the north: with God is terrible majesty.

37:23    論到全能者，我們不能測度。他大有能力，有公平和大義，必不苦待人。
Touching the Almighty, we cannot find him out: he is excellent in power, and in judgment, and in plenty of justice: he will not afflict.

37:24    所以，人敬畏他。凡自以為心中有智慧的人，他都不顧念。
Men do therefore fear him: he respecteth not any that are wise of heart.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 38 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


38:1    那時，耶和華從旋風中回答約伯說，
Then the LORD answered Job out of the whirlwind, and said,

38:2    誰用無知的言語，使我的旨意闇昧不明。
Who is this that darkeneth counsel by words without knowledge?

38:3    你要如勇士束腰。我問你，你可以指示我。
Gird up now thy loins like a man; for I will demand of thee, and answer thou me.

38:4    我立大地根基的時候，你在那裡呢。你若有聰明，只管說吧。
Where wast thou when I laid the foundations of the earth? declare, if thou hast understanding.

38:5    你若曉得就說，是誰定地的尺度。是誰把準繩拉在其上。
Who hath laid the measures thereof, if thou knowest? or who hath stretched the line upon it?

38:6    地的根基安置在何處。地的角石是誰安放的。
Whereupon are the foundations thereof fastened? or who laid the corner stone thereof;

38:7    那時晨星一同歌唱，神的眾子也都歡呼。
When the morning stars sang together, and all the sons of God shouted for joy?

38:8    海水衝出，如出胎胞，那時誰將它關閉呢。
Or who shut up the sea with doors, when it brake forth, as if it had issued out of the womb?

38:9    是我用雲彩當海的衣服，用幽暗當包裹它的布，
When I made the cloud the garment thereof, and thick darkness a swaddlingband for it,

38:10    為它定界限，又安門和閂，
And brake up for it my decreed place, and set bars and doors,

38:11    說，你只可到這裡，不可越過。你狂傲的浪要到此止住。
And said, Hitherto shalt thou come, but no further: and here shall thy proud waves be stayed?

38:12    你自生以來，曾命定晨光，使清晨的日光知道本位。
Hast thou commanded the morning since thy days; and caused the dayspring to know his place;

38:13    叫這光普照地的四極，將惡人從其中驅逐出來嗎。
That it might take hold of the ends of the earth, that the wicked might be shaken out of it?

38:14    因這光，地面改變如泥上印印，萬物出現如衣服一樣。
It is turned as clay to the seal; and they stand as a garment.

38:15    亮光不照惡人，強橫的膀臂也必折斷。
And from the wicked their light is withholden, and the high arm shall be broken.

38:16    你曾進到海源，或在深淵的隱密處行走嗎。
Hast thou entered into the springs of the sea? or hast thou walked in the search of the depth?

38:17    死亡的門曾向你顯露嗎。死蔭的門你曾見過嗎。
Have the gates of death been opened unto thee? or hast thou seen the doors of the shadow of death?

38:18    地的廣大你能明透嗎。你若全知道，只管說吧。
Hast thou perceived the breadth of the earth? declare if thou knowest it all.

38:19    光明的居所從何而至。黑暗的本位在於何處。
Where is the way where light dwelleth? and as for darkness, where is the place thereof,

38:20    你能帶到本境，能看明其室之路嗎。
That thou shouldest take it to the bound thereof, and that thou shouldest know the paths to the house thereof?

38:21    你總知道，因為你早已生在世上，你日子的數目也多。
Knowest thou it, because thou wast then born? or because the number of thy days is great?

38:22    你曾進入雪庫。或見過雹倉嗎。
Hast thou entered into the treasures of the snow? or hast thou seen the treasures of the hail,

38:23    這雪雹乃是我為降災，並打仗和爭戰的日子所預備的。
Which I have reserved against the time of trouble, against the day of battle and war?

38:24    光亮從何路分開。東風從何路分散遍地。
By what way is the light parted, which scattereth the east wind upon the earth?

38:25    誰為雨水分道。誰為雷電開路。
Who hath divided a watercourse for the overflowing of waters, or a way for the lightning of thunder;

38:26    使雨降在無人之地，無人居住的曠野。
To cause it to rain on the earth, where no man is; on the wilderness, wherein there is no man;

38:27    使荒廢淒涼之地得以豐足，青草得以發生。
To satisfy the desolate and waste ground; and to cause the bud of the tender herb to spring forth?

38:28    雨有父嗎。露水珠是誰生的呢。
Hath the rain a father? or who hath begotten the drops of dew?

38:29    冰出於誰的胎。天上的霜是誰生的呢。
Out of whose womb came the ice? and the hoary frost of heaven, who hath gendered it?

38:30    諸水堅硬（或作隱藏）如石頭，深淵之面凝結成冰。
The waters are hid as with a stone, and the face of the deep is frozen.

38:31    你能繫住昴星的結嗎。能解開叄星的帶嗎。
Canst thou bind the sweet influences of Pleiades, or loose the bands of Orion?

38:32    你能按時領出十二宮嗎。能引導北斗和隨它的眾星（星原文作子）嗎。
Canst thou bring forth Mazzaroth in his season? or canst thou guide Arcturus with his sons?

38:33    你知道天的定例嗎。能使地歸在天的權下嗎。
Knowest thou the ordinances of heaven? canst thou set the dominion thereof in the earth?

38:34    你能向雲彩揚起聲來，使傾盆的雨遮蓋你嗎。
Canst thou lift up thy voice to the clouds, that abundance of waters may cover thee?

38:35    你能發出閃電，叫它行去，使它對你說，我們在這裡。
Canst thou send lightnings, that they may go, and say unto thee, Here we are?

38:36    誰將智慧放在懷中。誰將聰明賜於心內。
Who hath put wisdom in the inward parts? or who hath given understanding to the heart?

38:37    誰能用智慧數算雲彩呢。塵土聚整合團，土塊緊緊結連。
Who can number the clouds in wisdom? or who can stay the bottles of heaven,

38:38    那時，誰能傾倒天上的瓶呢。
When the dust groweth into hardness, and the clods cleave fast together?

38:39    母獅子在洞中蹲伏，少壯獅子在隱密處埋伏。
Wilt thou hunt the prey for the lion? or fill the appetite of the young lions,

38:40    你能為它們抓取食物，使它們飽足嗎。
When they couch in their dens, and abide in the covert to lie in wait?

38:41    烏鴉之雛因無食物飛來飛去，哀告神。那時，誰為它預備食物呢。
Who provideth for the raven his food? when his young ones cry unto God, they wander for lack of meat.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 39 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


39:1    山岩間的野山羊幾時生產，你知道嗎。母鹿下犢之期，你能察定嗎。
Knowest thou the time when the wild goats of the rock bring forth? or canst thou mark when the hinds do calve?

39:2    它們懷胎的月數，你能數算嗎。它們幾時生產，你能曉得嗎。
Canst thou number the months that they fulfil? or knowest thou the time when they bring forth?

39:3    它們屈身，將子生下，就除掉疼痛。
They bow themselves, they bring forth their young ones, they cast out their sorrows.

39:4    這子漸漸肥壯，在荒野長大，去而不回。
Their young ones are in good liking, they grow up with corn; they go forth, and return not unto them.

39:5    誰放野驢出去自由。誰解開快驢的繩索。
Who hath sent out the wild ass free? or who hath loosed the bands of the wild ass?

39:6    我使曠野作它的住處，使鹹地當它的居所。
Whose house I have made the wilderness, and the barren land his dwellings.

39:7    它嗤笑城內的喧囔，不聽趕牲口的喝聲。
He scorneth the multitude of the city, neither regardeth he the crying of the driver.

39:8    遍山是它的草場。它尋梢各樣青綠之物。
The range of the mountains is his pasture, and he searcheth after every green thing.

39:9    野牛豈肯服事你。豈肯住在你的槽旁。
Will the unicorn be willing to serve thee, or abide by thy crib?

39:10    你豈能用套繩將野牛籠在犁溝之間。它豈肯隨你耙山谷之地。
Canst thou bind the unicorn with his band in the furrow? or will he harrow the valleys after thee?

39:11    豈可因它的力大就倚靠它。豈可把你的工交給它做嗎。
Wilt thou trust him, because his strength is great? or wilt thou leave thy labour to him?

39:12    豈可信靠它把你的糧食運到家，又收聚你禾場上的谷嗎。
Wilt thou believe him, that he will bring home thy seed, and gather it into thy barn?

39:13    鴕鳥的翅膀歡然扇展，豈是顯慈愛的翎毛和羽毛嗎。
Gavest thou the goodly wings unto the peacocks? or wings and feathers unto the ostrich?

39:14    因它把蛋留在地上，在塵土中使得溫暖。
Which leaveth her eggs in the earth, and warmeth them in dust,

39:15    卻想不到被腳踹碎，或被野獸踐踏。
And forgetteth that the foot may crush them, or that the wild beast may break them.

39:16    它忍心待雛，似乎不是自己的。雖然徒受勞苦，也不為雛懼怕。
She is hardened against her young ones, as though they were not hers: her labour is in vain without fear;

39:17    因為神使它沒有智慧，也未將悟性賜給它。
Because God hath deprived her of wisdom, neither hath he imparted to her understanding.

39:18    它幾時挺身展開翅膀，就嗤笑馬和騎馬的人。
What time she lifteth up herself on high, she scorneth the horse and his rider.

39:19    馬的大力是你所賜的嗎。它頸項上？？挲的鬃是你給它披上的嗎。
Hast thou given the horse strength? hast thou clothed his neck with thunder?

39:20    是你叫它跳躍像蝗蟲嗎。它噴氣之威使人驚惶。
Canst thou make him afraid as a grasshopper? the glory of his nostrils is terrible.

39:21    它在谷中刨地，自喜其力。它出去迎接佩帶兵器的人。
He paweth in the valley, and rejoiceth in his strength: he goeth on to meet the armed men.

39:22    它嗤笑可怕的事並不驚惶，也不因刀劍退回。
He mocketh at fear, and is not affrighted; neither turneth he back from the sword.

39:23    箭袋和發亮的槍，並短槍在它身上錚錚有聲。
The quiver rattleth against him, the glittering spear and the shield.

39:24    它發猛烈的怒氣將地吞下。一聽角聲就不耐站立。
He swalloweth the ground with fierceness and rage: neither believeth he that it is the sound of the trumpet.

39:25    角每發聲，它說呵哈。它從遠處聞著戰氣，又聽見軍長大發雷聲，和兵丁吶喊。
He saith among the trumpets, Ha, ha; and he smelleth the battle afar off, the thunder of the captains, and the shouting.

39:26    鷹雀飛翔，展開翅膀一直向南，豈是藉你的智慧嗎。
Doth the hawk fly by thy wisdom, and stretch her wings toward the south?

39:27    大鷹上騰在高處搭窩，豈是聽你的吩咐嗎。
Doth the eagle mount up at thy command, and make her nest on high?

39:28    它住在山岩，以山峰和堅固之所為家，
She dwelleth and abideth on the rock, upon the crag of the rock, and the strong place.

39:29    從那裡窺看食物，眼睛遠遠觀望。
From thence she seeketh the prey, and her eyes behold afar off.

39:30    它的雛也咂血。被殺的人在那裡。它也在那裡。
Her young ones also suck up blood: and where the slain are, there is she.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 40 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


40:1    耶和華又對約伯說，
Moreover the LORD answered Job, and said,

40:2    強辯的豈可與全能者爭論嗎。與神辯駁的可以回答這些吧。
Shall he that contendeth with the Almighty instruct him? he that reproveth God, let him answer it.



40:3    於是，約伯回答耶和華說，
Then Job answered the LORD, and said,

40:4    我是卑賤的。我用什麼回答你呢。只好用手捂口。
Behold, I am vile; what shall I answer thee? I will lay mine hand upon my mouth.

40:5    我說了一次，再不回答。說了兩次，就不再說。
Once have I spoken; but I will not answer: yea, twice; but I will proceed no further.

40:6    於是，耶和華從旋風中回答約伯說，
Then answered the LORD unto Job out of the whirlwind, and said,

40:7    你要如勇士束腰。我問你，你可以指示我。
Gird up thy loins now like a man: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.



40:8    你豈可廢棄我所擬定的。豈可定我有罪，好顯自己為義嗎。
Wilt thou also disannul my judgment? wilt thou condemn me, that thou mayest be righteous?

40:9    你有神那樣的膀臂嗎。你能像他發雷聲嗎。
Hast thou an arm like God? or canst thou thunder with a voice like him?

40:10    你要以榮耀莊嚴為妝飾，以尊榮威嚴為衣服。
Deck thyself now with majesty and excellency; and array thyself with glory and beauty.

40:11    要發出你滿溢的怒氣，見一切驕傲的人，使他降卑。
Cast abroad the rage of thy wrath: and behold every one that is proud, and abase him.

40:12    見一切驕傲的人，將他制伏，把惡人踐踏在本處。
Look on every one that is proud, and bring him low; and tread down the wicked in their place.

40:13    將他們一同隱藏在塵土中，把他們的臉矇蔽在隱密處。
Hide them in the dust together; and bind their faces in secret.

40:14    我就認你右手能以救自己。
Then will I also confess unto thee that thine own right hand can save thee.

40:15    你且觀看河馬。我造你也造它。它吃草與牛一樣。
Behold now behemoth, which I made with thee; he eateth grass as an ox.

40:16    它的氣力在腰間，能力在肚腹的筋上。
Lo now, his strength is in his loins, and his force is in the navel of his belly.

40:17    它搖動尾巴如香柏樹。它大腿的筋互相聯絡。
He moveth his tail like a cedar: the sinews of his stones are wrapped together.

40:18    它的骨頭好像銅管。它的肢體彷佛鐵棍。
His bones are as strong pieces of brass; his bones are like bars of iron.

40:19    它在神所造的物中為首。創造它的給它刀劍。
He is the chief of the ways of God: he that made him can make his sword to approach unto him.

40:20    諸山給它出食物，也是百獸遊玩之處。
Surely the mountains bring him forth food, where all the beasts of the field play.

40:21    它伏在蓮葉之下，臥在蘆葦隱密處和水窪子裡。
He lieth under the shady trees, in the covert of the reed, and fens.

40:22    蓮葉的陰涼遮蔽它。溪旁的柳樹環繞它。
The shady trees cover him with their shadow; the willows of the brook compass him about.

40:23    河水氾濫，它不發戰。就是約旦河的水漲到它口邊，也是安然。
Behold, he drinketh up a river, and hasteth not: he trusteth that he can draw up Jordan into his mouth.

40:24    在它防備的時候，誰能捉拿它。誰能牢籠它穿它的鼻子呢。
He taketh it with his eyes: his nose pierceth through snares.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 41 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


41:1    你能用魚鉤釣上鱷魚嗎。能用繩子壓下它的舌頭嗎。
Canst thou draw out leviathan with an hook? or his tongue with a cord which thou lettest down?

41:2    你能用繩索穿它的鼻子嗎。能用鉤穿它的腮骨嗎。
Canst thou put an hook into his nose? or bore his jaw through with a thorn?

41:3    它豈向你連連懇求，說柔和的話嗎。
Will he make many supplications unto thee? will he speak soft words unto thee?

41:4    豈肯與你立約，使你拿它永遠作奴僕嗎。
Will he make a covenant with thee? wilt thou take him for a servant for ever?

41:5    你豈可拿它當雀鳥玩耍嗎。豈可為你的幼女將它拴住嗎。
Wilt thou play with him as with a bird? or wilt thou bind him for thy maidens?

41:6    搭夥的漁夫豈可拿它當貨物嗎。能把它分給商人嗎。
Shall the companions make a banquet of him? shall they part him among the merchants?

41:7    你能用倒鉤槍扎滿它的皮，能用魚叉叉滿它的頭嗎。
Canst thou fill his skin with barbed irons? or his head with fish spears?

41:8    你按手在它身上，想與它爭戰，就不再這樣行吧。
Lay thine hand upon him, remember the battle, do no more.

41:9    人指望捉拿它是徒然的。一見它，豈不喪膽嗎。
Behold, the hope of him is in vain: shall not one be cast down even at the sight of him?

41:10    沒有那嗎凶猛的人敢惹它。這樣，誰能在我面前刪立得住呢。
None is so fierce that dare stir him up: who then is able to stand before me?

41:11    誰先給我什麼，使我償還呢。天下萬物都是我的。
Who hath prevented me, that I should repay him? whatsoever is under the whole heaven is mine.

41:12    論到鱷魚的肢體和其大力，並美好的骨骼，我不能緘默不言。
I will not conceal his parts, nor his power, nor his comely proportion.

41:13    誰能剝它的外衣。誰能進它上下牙骨之間呢。
Who can discover the face of his garment? or who can come to him with his double bridle?

41:14    誰能開它的腮頰。它牙齒四圍是可畏的。
Who can open the doors of his face? his teeth are terrible round about.

41:15    它以堅固的鱗甲為可誇，緊緊合閉，封得嚴密。
His scales are his pride, shut up together as with a close seal.

41:16    這鱗甲一一相連，甚至氣不得透入其間，
One is so near to another, that no air can come between them.

41:17    都是互相聯絡，膠結，不能分離。
They are joined one to another, they stick together, that they cannot be sundered.

41:18    它打噴嚏就發出光來。它眼睛好像早晨的光線（原文作眼皮）。
By his neesings a light doth shine, and his eyes are like the eyelids of the morning.

41:19    從它口中發出燒著的火把，與飛迸的火星。
Out of his mouth go burning lamps, and sparks of fire leap out.

41:20    從它鼻孔冒出煙來，如燒開的鍋和點著的蘆葦。
Out of his nostrils goeth smoke, as out of a seething pot or caldron.

41:21    它的氣點著煤炭，有火焰從它口中發出。
His breath kindleth coals, and a flame goeth out of his mouth.

41:22    它頸項中存著勁力。在它面前的都恐嚇蹦跳。
In his neck remaineth strength, and sorrow is turned into joy before him.

41:23    它的肉塊互相聯絡，緊貼其身，不能搖動。
The flakes of his flesh are joined together: they are firm in themselves; they cannot be moved.

41:24    它的心結實如石頭，如下磨石那樣結實。
His heart is as firm as a stone; yea, as hard as a piece of the nether millstone.

41:25    它一起來，勇士都驚恐，心裡慌亂，便都昏迷。
When he raiseth up himself, the mighty are afraid: by reason of breakings they purify themselves.

41:26    人若用刀，用槍，用標槍，用尖槍扎它，都是無用。
The sword of him that layeth at him cannot hold: the spear, the dart, nor the habergeon.

41:27    它以鐵為乾草，以銅為爛木。
He esteemeth iron as straw, and brass as rotten wood.

41:28    箭不能恐嚇它使它逃避。彈石在它看為碎秸。
The arrow cannot make him flee: slingstones are turned with him into stubble.

41:29    棍棒算為禾秸。它嗤笑短槍颼的響聲。
Darts are counted as stubble: he laugheth at the shaking of a spear.

41:30    它肚腹下如尖瓦片，它如釘耙經過淤泥。
Sharp stones are under him: he spreadeth sharp pointed things upon the mire.

41:31    它使深淵開滾如鍋，使洋海如鍋中的膏油。
He maketh the deep to boil like a pot: he maketh the sea like a pot of ointment.

41:32    它行的路隨後發光，令人想深淵如同白髮。
He maketh a path to shine after him; one would think the deep to be hoary.

41:33    在地上沒有像它造的那樣，無所懼怕。
Upon earth there is not his like, who is made without fear.

41:34    凡高大的，它無不藐視。它在驕傲的水族上作王。
He beholdeth all high things: he is a king over all the children of pride.




舊約 -- 約伯記(Job) -- 第 42 章 ( 本篇共有 42 章 )    　


42:1    約伯回答耶和華說，
Then Job answered the LORD, and said,

42:2    我知道，你萬事都能做。你的旨意不能攔阻。
I know that thou canst do every thing, and that no thought can be withholden from thee.

42:3    誰用無知的言語，使你的旨意隱藏呢。我所說的，是我不明白的。這些事太奇妙，是我不知道的。
Who is he that hideth counsel without knowledge? therefore have I uttered that I understood not; things too wonderful for me, which I knew not.

42:4    求你聽我，我要說話。我問你，求你指示我。
Hear, I beseech thee, and I will speak: I will demand of thee, and declare thou unto me.

42:5    我從前風聞有你，現在親眼看見你。
I have heard of thee by the hearing of the ear: but now mine eye seeth thee.

42:6    因此我厭惡自己，（自己或作我的言語）在塵土和爐灰中懊悔。
Wherefore I abhor myself, and repent in dust and ashes.

42:7    耶和華對約伯說話以後，就對毯螅人以利法說，我的怒氣向你和你兩個朋友發作，因為你們議論我，不如我的僕人約伯說的是。
And it was so, that after the LORD had spoken these words unto Job, the LORD said to Eliphaz the Temanite, My wrath is kindled against thee, and against thy two friends: for ye have not spoken of me the thing that is right, as my servant Job hath.

42:8    現在你們要取七隻公牛，七隻公羊，到我僕人約伯那裡去，為自己獻上燔祭，我的僕人約伯就為你們祈禱。我因悅納他，就不按你們的愚妄辦你們。你們議論我，不如我的僕人約伯說的是。
Therefore take unto you now seven bullocks and seven rams, and go to my servant Job, and offer up for yourselves a burnt offering; and my servant Job shall pray for you: for him will I accept: lest I deal with you after your folly, in that ye have not spoken of me the thing which is right, like my servant Job.

42:9    於是毯螅人以利法，書亞人比勒達，拿瑪人瑣法照著耶和華所吩咐的去行。耶和華就悅納約伯。
So Eliphaz the Temanite and Bildad the Shuhite and Zophar the Naamathite went, and did according as the LORD commanded them: the LORD also accepted Job.

42:10    約伯為他的朋友祈禱。耶和華就使約伯從苦境（原文作擄掠）轉回，並且耶和華賜給他的，比他從前所有的加倍。
And the LORD turned the captivity of Job, when he prayed for his friends: also the LORD gave Job twice as much as he had before.

42:11    約伯的弟兄，姊妹，和以先所認識的人都來見他，在他家裡一同吃飯。又論到耶和華所降與他的一切災禍，都為他悲傷安慰他。每人也送他一塊銀子和一個金環。
Then came there unto him all his brethren, and all his sisters, and all they that had been of his acquaintance before, and did eat bread with him in his house: and they bemoaned him, and comforted him over all the evil that the LORD had brought upon him: every man also gave him a piece of money, and every one an earring of gold.

42:12    這樣，耶和華後來賜福給約伯比先前更多。他有一萬四千羊，六千駱駝，一千對牛，一千母驢。
So the LORD blessed the latter end of Job more than his beginning: for he had fourteen thousand sheep, and six thousand camels, and a thousand yoke of oxen, and a thousand she asses.

42:13    他也有七個兒子，三個女兒。
He had also seven sons and three daughters.

42:14    他給長女起名叫耶米瑪，次女叫基洗亞，三女叫基連哈樸。
And he called the name of the first, Jemima; and the name of the second, Kezia; and the name of the third, Kerenhappuch.

42:15    在那全地的婦女中，找不著像約伯的女兒那樣美貌。她們的父親使她們在弟兄中得產業。
And in all the land were no women found so fair as the daughters of Job: and their father gave them inheritance among their brethren.

42:16    此後，約伯又活了一百四十年，得見他的兒孫，直到四代。
After this lived Job an hundred and forty years, and saw his sons, and his sons' sons, even four generations.

42:17    這樣，約伯年紀老邁，日子滿足而死。
So Job died, being old and full of days.




