

舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


1:1    不從惡人的計謀，不站罪人的道路，不坐褻慢人的座位。
Blessed is the man that walketh not in the counsel of the ungodly, nor standeth in the way of sinners, nor sitteth in the seat of the scornful.

1:2    惟喜愛耶和華的律法，晝夜思想，這人便為有福。
But his delight is in the law of the LORD; and in his law doth he meditate day and night.

1:3    他要像一棵樹栽在溪水旁，按時候結果子，葉子也不枯乾。凡他所作的，盡都順利。
And he shall be like a tree planted by the rivers of water, that bringeth forth his fruit in his season; his leaf also shall not wither; and whatsoever he doeth shall prosper.

1:4    惡人並不是這樣，乃像糠毗被風吹散。
The ungodly are not so: but are like the chaff which the wind driveth away.

1:5    因此當審判的時候，惡人必站立不住，罪人在義人的會中，也是如此。
Therefore the ungodly shall not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous.

1:6    因為耶和華知道義人的道路。惡人的道路，卻必滅亡。
For the LORD knoweth the way of the righteous: but the way of the ungodly shall perish.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


2:1    外邦為什麼爭鬧，萬民為什麼謀算虛妄的事。
Why do the heathen rage, and the people imagine a vain thing?

2:2    世上的君王一齊起來，臣宰一同商議，要敵擋耶和華，並他的受膏者，
The kings of the earth set themselves, and the rulers take counsel together, against the LORD, and against his anointed, saying,

2:3    說，我們要掙開他們的捆綁，脫去他們的繩索。
Let us break their bands asunder, and cast away their cords from us.

2:4    那坐在天上的必發笑。主必嗤笑他們。
He that sitteth in the heavens shall laugh: the LORD shall have them in derision.

2:5    那時他要在怒中責備他們，在烈怒中驚嚇他們，
Then shall he speak unto them in his wrath, and vex them in his sore displeasure.

2:6    說，我已立我的君在錫安我的聖山了。
Yet have I set my king upon my holy hill of Zion.

2:7    受膏者說，我要傳聖旨。耶和華曾對我說，你是我的兒子，我今日生你。
I will declare the decree: the LORD hath said unto me, Thou art my Son; this day have I begotten thee.

2:8    你求我，我就將列國賜你為基業，將地極賜你為田產。
Ask of me, and I shall give thee the heathen for thine inheritance, and the uttermost parts of the earth for thy possession.

2:9    你必用鐵杖打破他們。你必將他們如同窯匠的瓦器摔碎。
Thou shalt break them with a rod of iron; thou shalt dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel.

2:10    現在你們君王應當醒悟。你們世上的審判官該受管教。
Be wise now therefore, O ye kings: be instructed, ye judges of the earth.

2:11    當存畏懼事奉耶和華，又當存戰兢而快樂。
Serve the LORD with fear, and rejoice with trembling.

2:12    當以嘴親子，恐怕他發怒，你們便在道中滅亡，因為他的怒氣快要發作。凡投靠他的，都是有福的。
Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and ye perish from the way, when his wrath is kindled but a little. Blessed are all they that put their trust in him.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


3:1    耶和華阿，我的敵人何其加增。有許多人起來攻擊我。
Lord, how are they increased that trouble me! many are they that rise up against me.

3:2    有許多人議論我說，他得不著神的幫助。（細拉）
Many there be which say of my soul, There is no help for him in God. Selah.

3:3    但你耶和華是我四圍的盾牌。是我的榮耀，又是叫我抬起頭來的。
But thou, O LORD, art a shield for me; my glory, and the lifter up of mine head.

3:4    我用我的聲音求告耶和華，他就從他的聖山上應允我。（細拉）
I cried unto the LORD with my voice, and he heard me out of his holy hill. Selah.

3:5    我躺下睡覺。我醒著。耶和華都保佑我。
I laid me down and slept; I awaked; for the LORD sustained me.

3:6    雖有成萬的百姓來周圍攻擊我，我也不怕。
I will not be afraid of ten thousands of people, that have set themselves against me round about.

3:7    耶和華阿，求你起來。我的神阿，求你救我。因為你打了我一切仇敵的腮骨，敲碎了惡人的牙齒。
Arise, O LORD; save me, O my God: for thou hast smitten all mine enemies upon the cheek bone; thou hast broken the teeth of the ungodly.

3:8    救恩屬乎耶和華。願你賜福給你的百姓。（細拉）
Salvation belongeth unto the LORD: thy blessing is upon thy people. Selah.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


4:1    顯我為義的神阿，我呼籲的時候，求你應允我。我在困苦中，你曾使我寬廣。現在求你憐恤我，聽我的禱告。
Hear me when I call, O God of my righteousness: thou hast enlarged me when I was in distress; have mercy upon me, and hear my prayer.

4:2    你們這上流人哪，你們將我的尊榮變為羞辱，要到幾時呢你們喜愛虛妄，尋梢虛假，要到幾時呢。（細拉）
O ye sons of men, how long will ye turn my glory into shame? how long will ye love vanity, and seek after leasing? Selah.

4:3    你們要知道耶和華已經分別虔誠人歸他自己。我求告耶和華，他必聽我。
But know that the LORD hath set apart him that is godly for himself: the LORD will hear when I call unto him.

4:4    你們應當畏懼，不可犯罪。在床上的時候，要心裡思想，並要肅靜。（細拉）
Stand in awe, and sin not: commune with your own heart upon your bed, and be still. Selah.

4:5    當獻上公義的祭，又當倚靠耶和華。
Offer the sacrifices of righteousness, and put your trust in the LORD.

4:6    有許多人說，誰能指示我們什麼好處。耶和華阿，求你仰起臉來，光照我們。
There be many that say, Who will shew us any good? LORD, lift thou up the light of thy countenance upon us.

4:7    你使我心裡快樂，勝過那豐收五穀新酒的人。
Thou hast put gladness in my heart, more than in the time that their corn and their wine increased.

4:8    我必安然躺下睡覺，因為獨有你耶和華使我安然居住。
I will both lay me down in peace, and sleep: for thou, LORD, only makest me dwell in safety.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


5:1    耶和華阿，求你留心聽我的言語，顧念我的心思。
Give ear to my words, O LORD, consider my meditation.

5:2    我的王我的神阿，求你垂聽我呼求的聲音。因為我向你祈禱。
Hearken unto the voice of my cry, my King, and my God: for unto thee will I pray.

5:3    耶和華阿，早晨你必聽我的聲音。早晨我必向你陳明我的心意，並要儆醒。
My voice shalt thou hear in the morning, O LORD; in the morning will I direct my prayer unto thee, and will look up.

5:4    因為你不是喜悅惡事的神。惡人不能與你同居。
For thou art not a God that hath pleasure in wickedness: neither shall evil dwell with thee.

5:5    狂傲人不能站在你眼前。凡作孽的，都是你所恨惡的。
The foolish shall not stand in thy sight: thou hatest all workers of iniquity.

5:6    說謊言的，你必滅絕。好流人血弄詭詐的，都為耶和華所憎惡。
Thou shalt destroy them that speak leasing: the LORD will abhor the bloody and deceitful man.

5:7    至於我，我必憑你豐盛的慈愛進入你的居所。我必存敬畏你的心向你的聖殿下拜。
But as for me, I will come into thy house in the multitude of thy mercy: and in thy fear will I worship toward thy holy temple.

5:8    耶和華阿，求你因我的仇敵，憑你的公義，引領我。使你的道路在我面前正直。
Lead me, O LORD, in thy righteousness because of mine enemies; make thy way straight before my face.

5:9    因為他們的口中沒有誠實。他們的心裡滿有邪惡。他們的喉嚨，是敞開的墳墓。他們用舌頭諂媚人。
For there is no faithfulness in their mouth; their inward part is very wickedness; their throat is an open sepulchre; they flatter with their tongue.

5:10    神阿，求你定他們的罪。願他們因自己的計謀跌倒。願你在他們許多的過犯中，把他們逐出。因為他們背叛了你。
Destroy thou them, O God; let them fall by their own counsels; cast them out in the multitude of their transgressions; for they have rebelled against thee.

5:11    凡投靠你的，願他們喜樂，時常歡呼，因為你護庇他們。又願那愛你名的人，都靠你歡欣。
But let all those that put their trust in thee rejoice: let them ever shout for joy, because thou defendest them: let them also that love thy name be joyful in thee.

5:12    因為你必賜福與義人。耶和華阿，你必用恩惠如同盾牌四面護衛他。
For thou, LORD, wilt bless the righteous; with favour wilt thou compass him as with a shield.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


6:1    耶和華阿，求你不要在怒中責備我，也不要在烈怒中懲罰我。
O LORD, rebuke me not in thine anger, neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.

6:2    耶和華阿，求你可憐我。因為我軟弱。耶和華阿，求你醫治我。因為我的骨頭髮戰。
Have mercy upon me, O LORD; for I am weak: O LORD, heal me; for my bones are vexed.

6:3    我心也大大的驚惶。耶和華阿，你要到幾時才救我呢。
My soul is also sore vexed: but thou, O LORD, how long?

6:4    耶和華阿，求你轉回，搭救我。因你的慈愛拯救我。
Return, O LORD, deliver my soul: oh save me for thy mercies' sake.

6:5    因為在死地無人記念你，在陰間有誰稱謝你。
For in death there is no remembrance of thee: in the grave who shall give thee thanks?

6:6    我因唉哼而睏乏。我每夜流淚，把床榻漂起，把褥子溼透。
I am weary with my groaning; all the night make I my bed to swim; I water my couch with my tears.

6:7    我因憂愁眼睛乾癟。又因我一切的敵人眼睛昏花。
Mine eye is consumed because of grief; it waxeth old because of all mine enemies.

6:8    你們一切作孽的人，離開我吧。因為耶和華聽了我哀哭的聲音。
Depart from me, all ye workers of iniquity; for the LORD hath heard the voice of my weeping.

6:9    耶和華聽了我的懇求。耶和華必收納我的禱告。
The LORD hath heard my supplication; the LORD will receive my prayer.

6:10    我的一切仇敵都必羞愧，大大驚惶。他們必要退後，忽然羞愧。
Let all mine enemies be ashamed and sore vexed: let them return and be ashamed suddenly.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


7:1    耶和華我的神阿，我投靠你。求你救我脫離一切追趕我的人，將我救拔出來。
O LORD my God, in thee do I put my trust: save me from all them that persecute me, and deliver me:

7:2    恐怕他們像獅子撕裂我，甚至撕碎，無人搭救。
Lest he tear my soul like a lion, rending it in pieces, while there is none to deliver.

7:3    耶和華我的神阿，我若行了這事，若有罪孽在我手裡，
O LORD my God, if I have done this; if there be iniquity in my hands;

7:4    我若以惡報那與我交好的人，連那無故與我為敵的，我也救了他，
If I have rewarded evil unto him that was at peace with me; (yea, I have delivered him that without cause is mine enemy:)

7:5    就任憑仇敵追趕我，直到追上。將我的性命踏在地下，使我的榮耀歸於灰塵。（細拉）
Let the enemy persecute my soul, and take it; yea, let him tread down my life upon the earth, and lay mine honour in the dust. Selah.

7:6    耶和華阿，求你在怒中起來，挺身而立，抵擋我敵人的暴怒。求你為我興起。你已經命定施行審判。
Arise, O LORD, in thine anger, lift up thyself because of the rage of mine enemies: and awake for me to the judgment that thou hast commanded.

7:7    願眾民的會環繞你。願你從其上歸於高位。
So shall the congregation of the people compass thee about: for their sakes therefore return thou on high.

7:8    耶和華向眾民施行審判。耶和華阿，求你按我的公義，和我心中的純正，判斷我。
The LORD shall judge the people: judge me, O LORD, according to my righteousness, and according to mine integrity that is in me.

7:9    願惡人的惡斷絕。願你堅立義人。因為公義的神察驗人的心腸肺腑。
Oh let the wickedness of the wicked come to an end; but establish the just: for the righteous God trieth the hearts and reins.

7:10    神是我的盾牌。他拯救心裡正直的人。
My defence is of God, which saveth the upright in heart.

7:11    神是公義的審判者，又是天天向惡人發怒的神。
God judgeth the righteous, and God is angry with the wicked every day.

7:12    若有人不回頭，他的刀必磨快。弓必上弦，豫備妥當了。
If he turn not, he will whet his sword; he hath bent his bow, and made it ready.

7:13    他也豫備了殺人的器械。他所射的是火箭。
He hath also prepared for him the instruments of death; he ordaineth his arrows against the persecutors.

7:14    試看惡人因奸惡而劬勞。所懷的是毒害，所生的是虛假。
Behold, he travaileth with iniquity, and hath conceived mischief, and brought forth falsehood.

7:15    他掘了坑，又挖深了，竟掉在自己所挖的阱裡。
He made a pit, and digged it, and is fallen into the ditch which he made.

7:16    他的毒害，必臨到他自己的頭上。他的強暴必落到他自己的腦袋上。
His mischief shall return upon his own head, and his violent dealing shall come down upon his own pate.

7:17    我要照著耶和華的公義稱謝他，歌頌耶和華至高者的名。
I will praise the LORD according to his righteousness: and will sing praise to the name of the LORD most high.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華我們的主阿，你的名在全地何其美。你將你的榮耀彰顯於天。
O LORD, our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth! who hast set thy glory above the heavens.

8:2    你因敵人的緣故，從嬰孩和吃奶的口中，建立了能力，使仇敵和報仇的，閉口無言。
Out of the mouth of babes and sucklings hast thou ordained strength because of thine enemies, that thou mightest still the enemy and the avenger.

8:3    我觀看你指頭所造的天，並你所陳設的月亮星宿，
When I consider thy heavens, the work of thy fingers, the moon and the stars, which thou hast ordained;

8:4    便說，人算什麼，你竟顧念他。世人算什麼，你竟眷顧他。
What is man, that thou art mindful of him? and the son of man, that thou visitest him?

8:5    你叫他比天使微小一點，並賜他榮耀尊貴為冠冕。
For thou hast made him a little lower than the angels, and hast crowned him with glory and honour.

8:6    你派他管理你手所造的，
Thou madest him to have dominion over the works of thy hands; thou hast put all things under his feet:

8:7    *使萬物，就是一切的牛羊，田野的獸，空中的鳥，海里的魚，
All sheep and oxen, yea, and the beasts of the field;



8:8    *凡經行海道的，都服在他的腳下。
The fowl of the air, and the fish of the sea, and whatsoever passeth through the paths of the seas.

8:9    耶和華我們的主阿，你的名在全地何其美。
O LORD our Lord, how excellent is thy name in all the earth!




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


9:1    我要一心稱謝耶和華。我要傳揚你一切奇妙的作為。
I will praise thee, O LORD, with my whole heart; I will shew forth all thy marvellous works.

9:2    我要因你歡喜快樂。至高者阿，我要歌頌你的名。
I will be glad and rejoice in thee: I will sing praise to thy name, O thou most High.

9:3    我的仇敵轉身退去的時候，他們一見你的面，就跌倒滅亡。
When mine enemies are turned back, they shall fall and perish at thy presence.

9:4    因你已經為我伸冤，為我辨屈。你坐在寶座上，按公義審判。
For thou hast maintained my right and my cause; thou satest in the throne judging right.

9:5    你曾斥責外邦。你曾滅絕惡人。你曾塗抹他們名，直到永永遠遠。
Thou hast rebuked the heathen, thou hast destroyed the wicked, thou hast put out their name for ever and ever.

9:6    仇敵到了盡頭。他們被毀壞，直到永遠。你拆毀他們的城邑。連他們的名號，都歸於無有。
O thou enemy, destructions are come to a perpetual end: and thou hast destroyed cities; their memorial is perished with them.

9:7    惟耶和華坐著為王，直到永遠。他已經為審判設擺他的寶座。
But the LORD shall endure for ever: he hath prepared his throne for judgment.

9:8    他要按公義審判世界，按正直判斷萬民。
And he shall judge the world in righteousness, he shall minister judgment to the people in uprightness.

9:9    耶和華又要給受欺壓的人作高臺，在患難的時候作高臺。
The LORD also will be a refuge for the oppressed, a refuge in times of trouble.

9:10    耶和華阿，認識你名的人要倚靠你。因你沒有離棄尋求你的人。
And they that know thy name will put their trust in thee: for thou, LORD, hast not forsaken them that seek thee.

9:11    應當歌頌居錫安的耶和華，將他所行的傳揚在眾民中。
Sing praises to the LORD, which dwelleth in Zion: declare among the people his doings.

9:12    因為那追討流人血之罪的，他記念受屈的人，不忘記困苦人的哀求。
When he maketh inquisition for blood, he remembereth them: he forgetteth not the cry of the humble.

9:13    耶和華阿，你是從死門把我提拔起來的。求你憐恤我。看那恨我的人所加給我的苦難。
Have mercy upon me, O LORD; consider my trouble which I suffer of them that hate me, thou that liftest me up from the gates of death:

9:14    好叫我述說你一切的美德。我必在錫安城的門因你的救恩歡樂。
That I may shew forth all thy praise in the gates of the daughter of Zion: I will rejoice in thy salvation.

9:15    外邦人陷在自己所掘的坑中。他們的腳，在自己暗設的網羅裡纏住了。
The heathen are sunk down in the pit that they made: in the net which they hid is their own foot taken.

9:16    耶和華已將自己顯明瞭，他已施行審判。惡人被自己手所作的纏住了。
The LORD is known by the judgment which he executeth: the wicked is snared in the work of his own hands. Higgaion. Selah.

9:17    惡人，就是忘記神的外邦人，都必歸到陰間。
The wicked shall be turned into hell, and all the nations that forget God.

9:18    窮乏人必不永久被忘，困苦人的指望，必不永遠落空。
For the needy shall not alway be forgotten: the expectation of the poor shall not perish for ever.

9:19    耶和華阿，求你起來，不容人得勝。願外邦人在你面前受審判。
Arise, O LORD; let not man prevail: let the heathen be judged in thy sight.

9:20    耶和華阿，求你使外邦人恐懼。願他們知道自己不過是人。（細拉）
Put them in fear, O LORD: that the nations may know themselves to be but men. Selah.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


10:1    耶和華阿，你為什麼站在遠處。在患難的時候，為什麼隱藏。
Why standest thou afar off, O LORD? why hidest thou thyself in times of trouble?

10:2    惡人在驕橫中，把困苦人追得火急。願他們陷在自己所設的計謀裡。
The wicked in his pride doth persecute the poor: let them be taken in the devices that they have imagined.

10:3    因為惡人以心願自誇。貪財的背棄耶和華，並且輕慢他。
For the wicked boasteth of his heart's desire, and blesseth the covetous, whom the LORD abhorreth.

10:4    惡人面帶驕傲，說，耶和華必不追究。他一切所想的，都以為沒有神。
The wicked, through the pride of his countenance, will not seek after God: God is not in all his thoughts.

10:5    凡他所作的，時常穩固。你的審判超過他的眼界。至於他一切的敵人，他都向他們噴氣。
His ways are always grievous; thy judgments are far above out of his sight: as for all his enemies, he puffeth at them.



10:6    他心裡說，我必不動搖，世世代代不遭災難。
He hath said in his heart, I shall not be moved: for I shall never be in adversity.

10:7    他滿口是咒罵，詭詐，欺壓。舌底是毒害奸惡。
His mouth is full of cursing and deceit and fraud: under his tongue is mischief and vanity.

10:8    他在村莊埋伏等候。他在隱密處殺害無辜人。他的眼睛窺探無倚無靠的人。
He sitteth in the lurking places of the villages: in the secret places doth he murder the innocent: his eyes are privily set against the poor.

10:9    他埋伏在暗地，如獅子蹲在洞中。他埋伏，要擄去困苦人。他拉網，就把困苦人擄去。
He lieth in wait secretly as a lion in his den: he lieth in wait to catch the poor: he doth catch the poor, when he draweth him into his net.

10:10    他屈身蹲伏，無倚無靠的人，就倒在他爪牙之下，
He croucheth, and humbleth himself, that the poor may fall by his strong ones.

10:11    他心裡說，神竟忘記了。他掩面，永不觀看。
He hath said in his heart, God hath forgotten: he hideth his face; he will never see it.

10:12    耶和華阿，求你起來。神阿，求你舉手。不要忘記困苦人。
Arise, O LORD; O God, lift up thine hand: forget not the humble.

10:13    惡人為何輕慢神，心裡說，你必不追究。
Wherefore doth the wicked contemn God? he hath said in his heart, Thou wilt not require it.

10:14    其實你已經觀看。因為奸惡毒害，你都看見了，為要以手施行報應。無倚無靠的人，把自己交託你。你向來是幫助孤兒的。
Thou hast seen it; for thou beholdest mischief and spite, to requite it with thy hand: the poor committeth himself unto thee; thou art the helper of the fatherless.

10:15    願你打斷惡人的膀臂。至於壞人，願你追究他的惡，直到淨盡。
Break thou the arm of the wicked and the evil man: seek out his wickedness till thou find none.

10:16    耶和華永永遠遠為王。外邦人從他的地已經滅絕了。
The LORD is King for ever and ever: the heathen are perished out of his land.

10:17    耶和華阿，謙卑人的心願，你早已知道。你必豫備他們的心，也必側耳聽他們的祈求。
LORD, thou hast heard the desire of the humble: thou wilt prepare their heart, thou wilt cause thine ear to hear:

10:18    為要給孤兒和受欺壓的人伸冤，使強橫的人不再威嚇他們。
To judge the fatherless and the oppressed, that the man of the earth may no more oppress.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


11:1    我是投靠耶和華。你們怎嗎對我說，你當像鳥飛往你的山去。
In the LORD put I my trust: how say ye to my soul, Flee as a bird to your mountain?

11:2    看哪，惡人彎弓，把箭搭在弦上，要在暗中射那心裡正直的人。
For, lo, the wicked bend their bow, they make ready their arrow upon the string, that they may privily shoot at the upright in heart.

11:3    根基若毀壞，義人還能作什麼呢。
If the foundations be destroyed, what can the righteous do?

11:4    耶和華在他的聖殿裡，耶和華的寶座在天上。他的慧眼察看世人。
The LORD is in his holy temple, the LORD's throne is in heaven: his eyes behold, his eyelids try, the children of men.

11:5    耶和華試驗義人。惟有惡人和喜愛強暴的人，他心裡恨惡。
The LORD trieth the righteous: but the wicked and him that loveth violence his soul hateth.

11:6    他要向惡人密佈網羅。有烈火，琉璜，熱風，作他們杯中的分。
Upon the wicked he shall rain snares, fire and brimstone, and an horrible tempest: this shall be the portion of their cup.

11:7    因為耶和華是公義的。他喜愛公義。正直人必得見他的面。
For the righteous LORD loveth righteousness; his countenance doth behold the upright.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


12:1    耶和華阿，求你幫助，因虔誠人斷絕了。世人中間的忠信人沒有了。
Help, LORD; for the godly man ceaseth; for the faithful fail from among the children of men.

12:2    人人向鄰舍說謊。他們說話，是嘴脣油滑，心口不一。
They speak vanity every one with his neighbour: with flattering lips and with a double heart do they speak.

12:3    凡油滑的嘴脣，和誇大的舌頭，耶和華必要剪除。
The LORD shall cut off all flattering lips, and the tongue that speaketh proud things:

12:4    他們曾說，我們必能以舌頭得勝。我們的嘴脣是我們自己的。誰能作我們主呢。
Who have said, With our tongue will we prevail; our lips are our own: who is lord over us?

12:5    耶和華說，因為困苦人的冤屈，和貧窮人的嘆息，我現在要起來，把他安置在他所切慕的穩妥之地。
For the oppression of the poor, for the sighing of the needy, now will I arise, saith the LORD; I will set him in safety from him that puffeth at him.

12:6    耶和華的言語，是純淨的言語。如同銀子在泥爐中煉過七次。
The words of the LORD are pure words: as silver tried in a furnace of earth, purified seven times.

12:7    耶和華阿，你必保護他們。你必保佑他們永遠脫離這世代的人。
Thou shalt keep them, O LORD, thou shalt preserve them from this generation for ever.

12:8    下流人在世人中升高，就有惡人到處遊行。
The wicked walk on every side, when the vilest men are exalted.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


13:1    耶和華阿，你忘記我要到幾時呢。要到永遠嗎。你掩面不顧我要到幾時呢。
How long wilt thou forget me, O LORD? for ever? how long wilt thou hide thy face from me?

13:2    我心裡籌算，終日愁苦，要到幾時呢。我的仇敵升高壓制我，要到幾時呢。
How long shall I take counsel in my soul, having sorrow in my heart daily? how long shall mine enemy be exalted over me?

13:3    耶和華我的神阿，求你看顧我，應允我，使我眼目光明，免得我沉睡至死。
Consider and hear me, O LORD my God: lighten mine eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death;

13:4    免得我的仇敵說，我勝了他。免得我的敵人在我搖動的時候喜樂。
Lest mine enemy say, I have prevailed against him; and those that trouble me rejoice when I am moved.

13:5    但我倚靠你的慈愛。我的心因你的救恩快樂。
But I have trusted in thy mercy; my heart shall rejoice in thy salvation.

13:6    我要向耶和華歌唱，因他用厚恩待我。
I will sing unto the LORD, because he hath dealt bountifully with me.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


14:1    愚頑人心裡說，沒有神。他們都是邪惡，行了可憎惡的事。沒有一個人行善。
The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. They are corrupt, they have done abominable works, there is none that doeth good.

14:2    耶和華從天上垂看世人，要看有明白的沒有，有尋求神的沒有。
The LORD looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, and seek God.

14:3    他們都偏離正路，一同變為汙穢。並沒有行善的，連一個也沒有。
They are all gone aside, they are all together become filthy: there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

14:4    作孽的都沒有知識嗎。他們吞吃我的百姓，如同吃飯一樣，並不求告耶和華。
Have all the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread, and call not upon the LORD.

14:5    他們在那裡大大的害怕，因為神在義人的族類中。
There were they in great fear: for God is in the generation of the righteous.

14:6    你們叫困苦人的謀算，變為羞辱。然而耶和華是他的避難所。
Ye have shamed the counsel of the poor, because the LORD is his refuge.

14:7    但願以色列的救恩從錫安而出。耶和華救回他被擄的子民，那時雅各要快樂，以色列要歡喜。
Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! when the LORD bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


15:1    耶和華阿，誰能寄居你的帳幕。能能住在你的聖山。
Lord, who shall abide in thy tabernacle? who shall dwell in thy holy hill?

15:2    就是行為正直，作事公義，心裡說實話的人。
He that walketh uprightly, and worketh righteousness, and speaketh the truth in his heart.

15:3    他不以舌頭讒謗人，不惡待朋友，也不隨夥毀謗鄰里。
He that backbiteth not with his tongue, nor doeth evil to his neighbour, nor taketh up a reproach against his neighbour.

15:4    他眼中藐視匪類，卻尊重那敬畏耶和華的人。他發了誓，雖然自己吃虧，也不更改。
In whose eyes a vile person is contemned; but he honoureth them that fear the LORD. He that sweareth to his own hurt, and changeth not.

15:5    他不放債取利，不受賄賂以害無辜。行這些事的人，必永不動搖。
He that putteth not out his money to usury, nor taketh reward against the innocent. He that doeth these things shall never be moved.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


16:1    神阿，求你保佑我，因為我投靠你。
Preserve me, O God: for in thee do I put my trust.

16:2    我的心哪，你曾對耶和華說，你是我的主。我的好處不在你以外。
O my soul, thou hast said unto the LORD, Thou art my Lord: my goodness extendeth not to thee;

16:3    論到世上的聖民，他們又美又善，是我最喜悅的。
But to the saints that are in the earth, and to the excellent, in whom is all my delight.

16:4    以別神代替耶和華的，他們的愁苦必加增。他們所澆奠的血我不獻上，我嘴脣也不題別神的名號。
Their sorrows shall be multiplied that hasten after another god: their drink offerings of blood will I not offer, nor take up their names into my lips.

16:5    耶和華是我的產業，是我杯中的分。我所得的你為我持守。
The LORD is the portion of mine inheritance and of my cup: thou maintainest my lot.

16:6    用繩量給我的地界，坐落在佳美之處。我的產業實在美好。
The lines are fallen unto me in pleasant places; yea, I have a goodly heritage.

16:7    我必稱頌那指教我的耶和華。我的心腸在夜間也警戒我。
I will bless the LORD, who hath given me counsel: my reins also instruct me in the night seasons.

16:8    我將耶和華常擺在我面前。因他在我右邊，我便不至搖動。
I have set the LORD always before me: because he is at my right hand, I shall not be moved.

16:9    因此我的心歡喜，我的靈快樂。我的肉身也要安然居住。
Therefore my heart is glad, and my glory rejoiceth: my flesh also shall rest in hope.

16:10    因為你必不將我的靈魂撇在陰間。也不叫你的聖者見朽壞。
For thou wilt not leave my soul in hell; neither wilt thou suffer thine Holy One to see corruption.

16:11    你必將生命的道路指示我。在你的面前有滿足的喜樂。在你右手中有永遠的福樂。
Thou wilt shew me the path of life: in thy presence is fulness of joy; at thy right hand there are pleasures for evermore.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


17:1    耶和華阿，求你聽聞公義，側耳聽我的呼籲。求你留心聽我這不出於詭詐嘴脣的祈禱。
Hear the right, O LORD, attend unto my cry, give ear unto my prayer, that goeth not out of feigned lips.

17:2    願我的判語從你面前發出。願你的眼睛觀看公正。
Let my sentence come forth from thy presence; let thine eyes behold the things that are equal.

17:3    你已經試驗我的心。你在夜間鑑察我。你熬煉我，卻找不著什麼。我立志叫我口中沒有過失。
Thou hast proved mine heart; thou hast visited me in the night; thou hast tried me, and shalt find nothing; I am purposed that my mouth shall not transgress.

17:4    論到人的行為，我藉著你嘴脣的言語，自己謹守，不行強暴人的道路。
Concerning the works of men, by the word of thy lips I have kept me from the paths of the destroyer.

17:5    我的腳踏定了你的路徑，我的兩腳未曾滑跌。
Hold up my goings in thy paths, that my footsteps slip not.

17:6    神阿，我曾求告你，因為你必應允我。求你向我側耳，聽我的言語。
I have called upon thee, for thou wilt hear me, O God: incline thine ear unto me, and hear my speech.

17:7    求你顯出你奇妙的慈愛來。你是那用右手拯救投靠你的，脫離起來攻擊他們的人。
Shew thy marvellous lovingkindness, O thou that savest by thy right hand them which put their trust in thee from those that rise up against them.

17:8    求你保護我，如同保護眼中的瞳人。將我隱藏在你翅膀的蔭下，
Keep me as the apple of the eye, hide me under the shadow of thy wings,

17:9    使我脫離那欺壓我的惡人，就是圍困我，要害我命的仇敵。
From the wicked that oppress me, from my deadly enemies, who compass me about.

17:10    他們的心被脂油包裹。他們用口說驕傲的話。
They are inclosed in their own fat: with their mouth they speak proudly.

17:11    他們圍困了我們的腳步。他們瞪著眼，要把我們推倒在地。
They have now compassed us in our steps: they have set their eyes bowing down to the earth;

17:12    他像獅子急要抓食，又像少壯獅子蹲伏在暗處。
Like as a lion that is greedy of his prey, and as it were a young lion lurking in secret places.

17:13    耶和華阿，求你起來，前去迎敵，將他打倒。用你的刀救護我命脫離惡人。
Arise, O LORD, disappoint him, cast him down: deliver my soul from the wicked, which is thy sword:

17:14    耶和華阿，求你用手救我脫離世人，脫離那隻在今生有福分的世人。你把你的財寶充滿他們的肚腹。他們因有兒女就心滿意足，將其餘的財物留給他們的嬰孩。
From men which are thy hand, O LORD, from men of the world, which have their portion in this life, and whose belly thou fillest with thy hid treasure: they are full of children, and leave the rest of their substance to their babes.

17:15    至於我，我必在義中見你的面。我醒了的時候，得見你的形像，就心滿意足了。
As for me, I will behold thy face in righteousness: I shall be satisfied, when I awake, with thy likeness.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


18:1    耶和華我的力量阿，我愛你。
I will love thee, O LORD, my strength.

18:2    耶和華是我的岩石，我的山寨，我的救主，我的神，我的磐石，我所投靠的。他是我的盾牌，是拯救我的角，是我的高臺。
The LORD is my rock, and my fortress, and my deliverer; my God, my strength, in whom I will trust; my buckler, and the horn of my salvation, and my high tower.

18:3    我要求告當讚美的耶和華。這樣我必從仇敵手中被救出來。
I will call upon the LORD, who is worthy to be praised: so shall I be saved from mine enemies.

18:4    曾有死亡的繩索纏繞我。匪類的急流使我驚懼。
The sorrows of death compassed me, and the floods of ungodly men made me afraid.

18:5    陰間的繩索纏繞我。死亡的網羅臨到我。
The sorrows of hell compassed me about: the snares of death prevented me.

18:6    我在急難中求告耶和華，向我的神呼求。他從殿中聽了我的聲音，我在他面前的呼求入了他的耳中。
In my distress I called upon the LORD, and cried unto my God: he heard my voice out of his temple, and my cry came before him, even into his ears.

18:7    那時因他發怒，地就搖撼戰抖，山的根基也震動搖撼。
Then the earth shook and trembled; the foundations also of the hills moved and were shaken, because he was wroth.

18:8    從他鼻孔冒煙上騰，從他口中發火焚燒。連炭也著了。
There went up a smoke out of his nostrils, and fire out of his mouth devoured: coals were kindled by it.

18:9    他又使天下垂，親自降臨。有黑雲在他腳下。
He bowed the heavens also, and came down: and darkness was under his feet.

18:10    他坐著基路伯飛行。他藉著風的翅膀快飛。
And he rode upon a cherub, and did fly: yea, he did fly upon the wings of the wind.

18:11    他以黑暗為藏身之處，以水的黑暗，天空的厚雲，為他四圍的行宮。
He made darkness his secret place; his pavilion round about him were dark waters and thick clouds of the skies.

18:12    因他面前的光輝，他的厚雲行過。便有冰雹火炭。
At the brightness that was before him his thick clouds passed, hail stones and coals of fire.

18:13    耶和華也在天上打雷。至高者發出聲音，便有冰雹火炭。
The LORD also thundered in the heavens, and the Highest gave his voice; hail stones and coals of fire.

18:14    他射出箭來，使仇敵四散。多多發出閃電，使他們擾亂。
Yea, he sent out his arrows, and scattered them; and he shot out lightnings, and discomfited them.

18:15    耶和華阿，你的斥責一發，你鼻孔的氣一出，海底就出現，大地的根基也顯露。
Then the channels of waters were seen, and the foundations of the world were discovered at thy rebuke, O LORD, at the blast of the breath of thy nostrils.

18:16    他從高天伸手抓住我。把我從大水中拉上來。
He sent from above, he took me, he drew me out of many waters.

18:17    他救我脫離我的勁敵，和那些恨我的人。因為他們比我強盛。
He delivered me from my strong enemy, and from them which hated me: for they were too strong for me.

18:18    我遭遇災難的日子，他們來攻擊我。但耶和華是我的倚靠。
They prevented me in the day of my calamity: but the LORD was my stay.

18:19    他又領我到寬闊之處。他救拔我，因他喜悅我。
He brought me forth also into a large place; he delivered me, because he delighted in me.

18:20    耶和華按著我的公義報答我，按著我手中的清潔賞賜我。
The LORD rewarded me according to my righteousness; according to the cleanness of my hands hath he recompensed me.

18:21    因為我遵守了耶和華的道，未曾作惡離開我的神。
For I have kept the ways of the LORD, and have not wickedly departed from my God.

18:22    他的一切典章常在我面前。他的律例我也未曾丟棄。
For all his judgments were before me, and I did not put away his statutes from me.

18:23    我在他面前作了完全人。我也保守自己遠離我的罪孽。
I was also upright before him, and I kept myself from mine iniquity.

18:24    所以耶和華按我的公義，按我在他眼前手中的清潔，償還我。
Therefore hath the LORD recompensed me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his eyesight.

18:25    慈愛的人，你以慈愛待他。完全的人，你以完全待他。
With the merciful thou wilt shew thyself merciful; with an upright man thou wilt shew thyself upright;

18:26    清潔的人，你以清潔待他。乖僻的人，你以彎曲待他。
With the pure thou wilt shew thyself pure; and with the froward thou wilt shew thyself froward.

18:27    困苦的百姓，你必拯救。高傲的眼目，你必使他降卑。
For thou wilt save the afflicted people; but wilt bring down high looks.

18:28    你必點著我的燈。耶和華我的神必照明我的黑暗。
For thou wilt light my candle: the LORD my God will enlighten my darkness.

18:29    我藉著你衝入敵軍，藉著我的神跳過牆垣。
For by thee I have run through a troop; and by my God have I leaped over a wall.

18:30    至於神，他的道是完全的。耶和華的話是煉淨的。凡投靠他的，他便作他們的盾牌。
As for God, his way is perfect: the word of the LORD is tried: he is a buckler to all those that trust in him.

18:31    除了耶和華，誰是神呢。除了我們的神，誰是磐石呢。
For who is God save the LORD? or who is a rock save our God?

18:32    惟有那以力量束我的腰，使我的行為完全的，他是神。
It is God that girdeth me with strength, and maketh my way perfect.

18:33    他使我的腳快如母鹿的蹄，又使我在高處安穩。
He maketh my feet like hinds' feet, and setteth me upon my high places.

18:34    他教導我的手能以爭戰，甚至我的膀臂能開銅弓。
He teacheth my hands to war, so that a bow of steel is broken by mine arms.

18:35    你把你的救恩給我作盾牌。你的右手扶持我。你的溫和使我為大。
Thou hast also given me the shield of thy salvation: and thy right hand hath holden me up, and thy gentleness hath made me great.

18:36    你使我腳下的地步寬闊。我的腳未曾滑跌。
Thou hast enlarged my steps under me, that my feet did not slip.

18:37    我要追趕我的仇敵，必要追上他們。不將他們滅絕，我總不歸回。
I have pursued mine enemies, and overtaken them: neither did I turn again till they were consumed.

18:38    我要打傷他們，使他們不能起來。他們必倒在我的腳下。
I have wounded them that they were not able to rise: they are fallen under my feet.

18:39    因為你曾以力量束我的腰，使我能爭戰。你也使那起來攻擊我的，都服在我以下。
For thou hast girded me with strength unto the battle: thou hast subdued under me those that rose up against me.

18:40    你又使我的仇敵在我面前轉背逃跑，叫我能以剪除那恨我的人。
Thou hast also given me the necks of mine enemies; that I might destroy them that hate me.

18:41    他們呼求，卻無人拯救，就是呼求耶和華，他也不應允。
They cried, but there was none to save them: even unto the LORD, but he answered them not.

18:42    我搗碎他們，如同風前的灰塵，倒出他們，如同街上的泥土。
Then did I beat them small as the dust before the wind: I did cast them out as the dirt in the streets.

18:43    你救我脫離百姓的爭競，立我作列國的元首。我素不認識的民必事奉我。
Thou hast delivered me from the strivings of the people; and thou hast made me the head of the heathen: a people whom I have not known shall serve me.

18:44    他們一聽見我的名聲，就必順從我。外邦人要投降我。
As soon as they hear of me, they shall obey me: the strangers shall submit themselves unto me.

18:45    外邦人要衰殘，戰戰兢兢的出他們的營寨。
The strangers shall fade away, and be afraid out of their close places.

18:46    耶和華是活神。願我的磐石被人稱頌。願救我的神被人尊崇。
The LORD liveth; and blessed be my rock; and let the God of my salvation be exalted.

18:47    這位神，就是那為我伸冤，使眾民服在我以下的。
It is God that avengeth me, and subdueth the people under me.

18:48    你救我脫離仇敵。又把我舉起，高過那些起來攻擊我的。你救我脫離強暴的人。
He delivereth me from mine enemies: yea, thou liftest me up above those that rise up against me: thou hast delivered me from the violent man.

18:49    耶和華阿，因此我要在外邦中稱謝你，歌頌你的名。
Therefore will I give thanks unto thee, O LORD, among the heathen, and sing praises unto thy name.

18:50    耶和華賜極大的救恩給他所立的王，施慈愛給他的受膏者，就是給大衛和他的後裔，直到永遠。
Great deliverance giveth he to his king; and sheweth mercy to his anointed, to David, and to his seed for evermore.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


19:1    諸天述說神的榮耀，穹蒼傳揚他的手段。
The heavens declare the glory of God; and the firmament sheweth his handywork.

19:2    這日到那日發出言語。這夜到那夜傳出知識。
Day unto day uttereth speech, and night unto night sheweth knowledge.

19:3    無言無語，也無聲音可聽。
There is no speech nor language, where their voice is not heard.

19:4    他的量帶通遍天下，他的言語傳到地極。神在其間為太陽安設帳幕。
Their line is gone out through all the earth, and their words to the end of the world. In them hath he set a tabernacle for the sun,

19:5    太陽如同新郎出洞房，又如勇士歡然奔路。
Which is as a bridegroom coming out of his chamber, and rejoiceth as a strong man to run a race.

19:6    他從天這邊出來，繞到天那邊。沒有一物被隱藏不得他的熱氣。
His going forth is from the end of the heaven, and his circuit unto the ends of it: and there is nothing hid from the heat thereof.

19:7    耶和華的律法全備，能甦醒人心。耶和華的法度確定，能使愚人有智慧。
The law of the LORD is perfect, converting the soul: the testimony of the LORD is sure, making wise the simple.

19:8    耶和華的訓詞正直，能快活人心。耶和華的命令清潔，能明亮人的眼目。
The statutes of the LORD are right, rejoicing the heart: the commandment of the LORD is pure, enlightening the eyes.

19:9    耶和華的道理潔淨，存到永遠。耶和華的典章真實，全然公義。
The fear of the LORD is clean, enduring for ever: the judgments of the LORD are true and righteous altogether.

19:10    都比金子可羨慕，且比極多的精金可羨慕。比蜜甘甜，且比蜂房下滴的蜜甘甜。
More to be desired are they than gold, yea, than much fine gold: sweeter also than honey and the honeycomb.

19:11    況且你的僕人因此受警戒。守著這些便有大賞。
Moreover by them is thy servant warned: and in keeping of them there is great reward.

19:12    誰能知道自己的錯失呢。願你赦免我隱而未現的過錯。
Who can understand his errors? cleanse thou me from secret faults.

19:13    求你攔阻僕人，不犯任意妄為的罪。不容這罪轄制我。我便完全，免犯大罪。
Keep back thy servant also from presumptuous sins; let them not have dominion over me: then shall I be upright, and I shall be innocent from the great transgression.

19:14    耶和華我的磐石，我的救贖主阿，願我口中的言語，心中的意念，在你面前蒙悅納。
Let the words of my mouth, and the meditation of my heart, be acceptable in thy sight, O LORD, my strength, and my redeemer.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


20:1    願耶和華在你遭難的日子應允你。願名為雅各神的高舉你。
The LORD hear thee in the day of trouble; the name of the God of Jacob defend thee;

20:2    願他從聖所救助你，從錫安堅固你。
Send thee help from the sanctuary, and strengthen thee out of Zion;

20:3    記念你的一切供獻，悅納你的燔祭。（細拉）
Remember all thy offerings, and accept thy burnt sacrifice; Selah.

20:4    將你心所願的賜給你，成就你的一切籌算。
Grant thee according to thine own heart, and fulfil all thy counsel.

20:5    我們要因你的救恩誇勝，要奉我們神的名豎立旌旗。願耶和華成就你一切所求的。
We will rejoice in thy salvation, and in the name of our God we will set up our banners: the LORD fulfil all thy petitions.

20:6    現在我知道耶和華救護他的受膏者，必從他的聖天上應允他，用右手的能力救護他。
Now know I that the LORD saveth his anointed; he will hear him from his holy heaven with the saving strength of his right hand.

20:7    有人靠車，有人靠馬。但我們要題到耶和華我們神的名。
Some trust in chariots, and some in horses: but we will remember the name of the LORD our God.

20:8    他們都屈身仆倒，我們卻起來，立得正直。
They are brought down and fallen: but we are risen, and stand upright.

20:9    求耶和華施行拯救。我們呼求的時候，願王應允我們。
Save, LORD: let the king hear us when we call.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


21:1    耶和華阿，王必因你的能力歡喜。因你的救恩，他的快樂何其大。
The king shall joy in thy strength, O LORD; and in thy salvation how greatly shall he rejoice!

21:2    他心裡所願的，你已經賜給他。他嘴脣所求的，你未嘗不應允。（細拉）
Thou hast given him his heart's desire, and hast not withholden the request of his lips. Selah.

21:3    你以美福迎接他，把精金的冠冕戴在他頭上。
For thou preventest him with the blessings of goodness: thou settest a crown of pure gold on his head.

21:4    他向你求壽，你便賜給他，就是日子長久，直到永遠。
He asked life of thee, and thou gavest it him, even length of days for ever and ever.

21:5    他因你的救恩大有榮耀。你又將尊榮威嚴加在他身上。
His glory is great in thy salvation: honour and majesty hast thou laid upon him.

21:6    你使他有洪福，直到永遠。又使他在你面前歡喜快樂。
For thou hast made him most blessed for ever: thou hast made him exceeding glad with thy countenance.

21:7    王依靠耶和華，因至高者的慈愛必不搖動。
For the king trusteth in the LORD, and through the mercy of the most High he shall not be moved.

21:8    你的手要搜出你的一切仇敵。你的右手要搜出那些恨你的人。
Thine hand shall find out all thine enemies: thy right hand shall find out those that hate thee.

21:9    你發怒的時候，要使他們如在炎熱的火爐中。耶和華要在他的震怒中吞滅他們。那火要把他們燒盡了。
Thou shalt make them as a fiery oven in the time of thine anger: the LORD shall swallow them up in his wrath, and the fire shall devour them.

21:10    你必從世上滅絕他們的子孫，從人間滅絕他們的後裔。
Their fruit shalt thou destroy from the earth, and their seed from among the children of men.

21:11    因為他們有意加害於你。他們想出計謀，卻不能作成。
For they intended evil against thee: they imagined a mischievous device, which they are not able to perform.

21:12    你必使他們轉背逃跑，向他們的臉搭箭在弦。
Therefore shalt thou make them turn their back, when thou shalt make ready thine arrows upon thy strings against the face of them.

21:13    耶和華阿，願你因自己的能力顯為至高。這樣，我們就唱詩，歌頌你的大能。
Be thou exalted, LORD, in thine own strength: so will we sing and praise thy power.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


22:1    我的神，我的神，為什麼離棄我。為什麼遠離不救我，不聽我唉哼的言語。
My God, my God, why hast thou forsaken me? why art thou so far from helping me, and from the words of my roaring?

22:2    我的神阿，我白日呼求，你不應允。夜間呼求，必不住聲。
O my God, I cry in the day time, but thou hearest not; and in the night season, and am not silent.

22:3    但你是聖潔的，是用以色列的讚美為寶座的。
But thou art holy, O thou that inhabitest the praises of Israel.

22:4    我們的祖宗倚靠你。他們倚靠你，你便解救他們。
Our fathers trusted in thee: they trusted, and thou didst deliver them.

22:5    他們哀求你，便蒙解救。他們倚靠你，就不羞愧。
They cried unto thee, and were delivered: they trusted in thee, and were not confounded.

22:6    但我是蟲，不是人。被眾人羞辱，被百姓藐視。
But I am a worm, and no man; a reproach of men, and despised of the people.

22:7    凡看見我的都嗤笑我。他們撇嘴搖頭，說，
All they that see me laugh me to scorn: they shoot out the lip, they shake the head, saying,



22:8    他把自己交託耶和華，耶和華可以救他吧。耶和華既喜悅他，可以搭救他吧。
He trusted on the LORD that he would deliver him: let him deliver him, seeing he delighted in him.

22:9    但你是叫我出母腹的。我在母懷裡，你就使我有倚靠的心。
But thou art he that took me out of the womb: thou didst make me hope when I was upon my mother's breasts.

22:10    我自出母胎就被交在你手裡。從我母親生我，你就是我的神。
I was cast upon thee from the womb: thou art my God from my mother's belly.

22:11    求你不要遠離我。因為急難臨近了，沒有人幫助我。
Be not far from me; for trouble is near; for there is none to help.

22:12    有許多公牛圍繞我。巴珊大力的公牛四面困住我。
Many bulls have compassed me: strong bulls of Bashan have beset me round.

22:13    他們向我張口，好像抓撕吼叫的獅子。
They gaped upon me with their mouths, as a ravening and a roaring lion.

22:14    我如水被倒出來。我的骨頭都脫了節。我心在我裡面如臘熔化。
I am poured out like water, and all my bones are out of joint: my heart is like wax; it is melted in the midst of my bowels.

22:15    我的精力枯乾，如同瓦片。我的舌頭貼在我牙床上。你將我安置在死地的塵土中。
My strength is dried up like a potsherd; and my tongue cleaveth to my jaws; and thou hast brought me into the dust of death.

22:16    犬類圍著我。惡黨環繞我。他們紮了我的手，我的腳。
For dogs have compassed me: the assembly of the wicked have inclosed me: they pierced my hands and my feet.

22:17    我的骨頭，我都能數過。他們瞪著眼看我。
I may tell all my bones: they look and stare upon me.

22:18    他們分我的外衣，為我的裡衣拈鬮。
They part my garments among them, and cast lots upon my vesture.

22:19    耶和華阿，求你不要遠離我。我的救主阿，求你快來幫助我。
But be not thou far from me, O LORD: O my strength, haste thee to help me.

22:20    求你救我的靈魂脫離刀劍，救我的生命脫離犬類。
Deliver my soul from the sword; my darling from the power of the dog.

22:21    救我脫離獅子的口。你已經應允我，使我脫離野牛的角。
Save me from the lion's mouth: for thou hast heard me from the horns of the unicorns.

22:22    我要將你的名傳與我的弟兄。在會中我要讚美你。
I will declare thy name unto my brethren: in the midst of the congregation will I praise thee.

22:23    你們敬畏耶和華的人，要讚美他。雅各的後裔，都要榮耀他。以色列的後裔，都要懼怕他。
Ye that fear the LORD, praise him; all ye the seed of Jacob, glorify him; and fear him, all ye the seed of Israel.

22:24    因為他沒有藐視憎惡受苦的人。也沒有向他掩面。那受苦之人呼籲的時候，他就垂聽。
For he hath not despised nor abhorred the affliction of the afflicted; neither hath he hid his face from him; but when he cried unto him, he heard.

22:25    我在大會中讚美你的話，是從你而來的。我要在敬畏耶和華的人面前還我的願。
My praise shall be of thee in the great congregation: I will pay my vows before them that fear him.

22:26    謙卑的人必吃得飽足。尋求耶和華的人必讚美他。願你們的心永遠活著。
The meek shall eat and be satisfied: they shall praise the LORD that seek him: your heart shall live for ever.

22:27    地的四極，都要想念耶和華，並且歸順他。列國的萬族，都要在你面前敬拜。
All the ends of the world shall remember and turn unto the LORD: and all the kindreds of the nations shall worship before thee.

22:28    因為國權是耶和華的。他是管理萬國的。
For the kingdom is the LORD's: and he is the governor among the nations.

22:29    地上一切豐肥的人，必吃喝而敬拜。凡下到塵土中不能存活自己性命的人，都要在他面前下拜。
All they that be fat upon earth shall eat and worship: all they that go down to the dust shall bow before him: and none can keep alive his own soul.

22:30    他必有後裔事奉他。主所行的事，必傳與後代。
A seed shall serve him; it shall be accounted to the Lord for a generation.

22:31    他們必來把他的公義傳給將要生的民，言明這事是他所行的。
They shall come, and shall declare his righteousness unto a people that shall be born, that he hath done this.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


23:1    耶和華是我的牧者。我必不至缺乏。
The LORD is my shepherd; I shall not want.

23:2    他使我躺臥在青草地上，領我在可安歇的水邊。
He maketh me to lie down in green pastures: he leadeth me beside the still waters.

23:3    他使我的靈魂甦醒，為自己的名引導我走義路。
He restoreth my soul: he leadeth me in the paths of righteousness for his name's sake.

23:4    我雖然行過死陰的幽谷，也不怕遭害。因為你與我同在。你的杖，你的竿，都安慰我。
Yea, though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil: for thou art with me; thy rod and thy staff they comfort me.

23:5    在我敵人面前，你為我擺設筵席。你用油膏了我的頭，使我的福杯滿溢。
Thou preparest a table before me in the presence of mine enemies: thou anointest my head with oil; my cup runneth over.

23:6    我一生一世必有恩惠慈愛隨著我。我且要住在耶和華的殿中，直到永遠。
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life: and I will dwell in the house of the LORD for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


24:1    地和其中所充滿的，世界和住在其間的，都屬耶和華。
The earth is the LORD's, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.

24:2    他把地建立在海上，安定在大水之上。
For he hath founded it upon the seas, and established it upon the floods.

24:3    誰能登耶和華的山。誰能站在他的聖所。
Who shall ascend into the hill of the LORD? or who shall stand in his holy place?

24:4    就是手潔心清，不向虛妄，起誓不懷詭詐的人。
He that hath clean hands, and a pure heart; who hath not lifted up his soul unto vanity, nor sworn deceitfully.

24:5    他必蒙耶和華賜福，又蒙救他的神使他成義。
He shall receive the blessing from the LORD, and righteousness from the God of his salvation.

24:6    這是尋求耶和華的族類，是尋求你面的雅各（細拉）。
This is the generation of them that seek him, that seek thy face, O Jacob. Selah.

24:7    眾城門哪，你們要抬起頭來。永久的門戶，你們要被舉起。那榮耀的王將要進來。
Lift up your heads, O ye gates; and be ye lift up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.

24:8    榮耀的王是誰呢。就是有力有能的耶和華，在戰場上有能的耶和華。
Who is this King of glory? The LORD strong and mighty, the LORD mighty in battle.

24:9    眾城門哪，你們要抬起頭來。永久的門戶，你們要把頭抬起。那榮耀的王將要進來。
Lift up your heads, O ye gates; even lift them up, ye everlasting doors; and the King of glory shall come in.

24:10    榮耀的王是誰呢。萬軍之耶和華，他是榮耀的王。（細拉）
Who is this King of glory? The LORD of hosts, he is the King of glory. Selah.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


25:1    耶和華阿，我的心仰望你。
Unto thee, O LORD, do I lift up my soul.

25:2    我的神阿，我素來倚靠你。求你不要叫我羞愧。不要叫我的仇敵向我誇勝。
O my God, I trust in thee: let me not be ashamed, let not mine enemies triumph over me.

25:3    凡等候你的必不羞愧。惟有那無故行奸詐的，必要羞愧。
Yea, let none that wait on thee be ashamed: let them be ashamed which transgress without cause.

25:4    耶和華阿，求你將你的道指示我，將你的路教訓我。
Shew me thy ways, O LORD; teach me thy paths.

25:5    求你以你的真理引導我，教訓我。因為你是救我的神。我終日等候你。
Lead me in thy truth, and teach me: for thou art the God of my salvation; on thee do I wait all the day.

25:6    耶和華阿，求你記念你的憐憫和慈愛。因為這是亙古以來所常有的。
Remember, O LORD, thy tender mercies and thy lovingkindnesses; for they have been ever of old.

25:7    求你不要記念我幼年的罪愆，和我的過犯。耶和華阿，求你因你的恩惠，按你的慈愛記念我。
Remember not the sins of my youth, nor my transgressions: according to thy mercy remember thou me for thy goodness' sake, O LORD.

25:8    耶和華是良善正直的。所以他必指示罪人走正路。
Good and upright is the LORD: therefore will he teach sinners in the way.

25:9    他必按公平引領謙卑人，將他的道教訓他們。
The meek will he guide in judgment: and the meek will he teach his way.

25:10    凡遵守他的約和他法度的人，耶和華都以慈愛誠實待他。
All the paths of the LORD are mercy and truth unto such as keep his covenant and his testimonies.

25:11    耶和華阿，求你因你的名赦免我的罪，因為我的罪重大。
For thy name's sake, O LORD, pardon mine iniquity; for it is great.

25:12    誰敬畏耶和華，耶和華必指示他當選擇的道路。
What man is he that feareth the LORD? him shall he teach in the way that he shall choose.

25:13    他必安然居住。他的後裔必承受地土。
His soul shall dwell at ease; and his seed shall inherit the earth.

25:14    耶和華與敬畏他的人親密。他必將自己的約指示他們。
The secret of the LORD is with them that fear him; and he will shew them his covenant.

25:15    我的眼目時常仰望耶和華。因為他必將我的腳從網裡拉出來。
Mine eyes are ever toward the LORD; for he shall pluck my feet out of the net.

25:16    求你轉向我，憐恤我，因為我是孤獨困苦。
Turn thee unto me, and have mercy upon me; for I am desolate and afflicted.

25:17    我心裡的愁苦甚多。求你救我脫離我的禍患。
The troubles of my heart are enlarged: O bring thou me out of my distresses.

25:18    求你看顧我的困苦，我的艱難，赦免我一切的罪。
Look upon mine affliction and my pain; and forgive all my sins.

25:19    求你察看我的仇敵，因為他們人多。並且痛痛的恨我。
Consider mine enemies; for they are many; and they hate me with cruel hatred.

25:20    求你保護我的性命，搭救我，使我不至羞愧，因為我投靠你。
O keep my soul, and deliver me: let me not be ashamed; for I put my trust in thee.

25:21    願純全正直保守我，因為我等候你。
Let integrity and uprightness preserve me; for I wait on thee.

25:22    神阿，求你救贖以色列脫離他一切的愁苦。
Redeem Israel, O God, out of all his troubles.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


26:1    耶和華阿，求你為我伸冤，因我向來行事純全，我又倚靠耶和華並不搖動。
Judge me, O LORD; for I have walked in mine integrity: I have trusted also in the LORD; therefore I shall not slide.

26:2    耶和華阿，求你察看我，試驗我，熬煉我的肺腑心腸。
Examine me, O LORD, and prove me; try my reins and my heart.

26:3    因為你的慈愛常在我眼前。我也按你的真理而行。
For thy lovingkindness is before mine eyes: and I have walked in thy truth.

26:4    我沒有和虛謊人同坐。也不與瞞哄人同群。
I have not sat with vain persons, neither will I go in with dissemblers.

26:5    我恨惡惡人的會，必不與惡人同坐。
I have hated the congregation of evil doers; and will not sit with the wicked.

26:6    耶和華阿，我要洗手錶明無辜，才環繞你的祭壇。
I will wash mine hands in innocency: so will I compass thine altar, O LORD:

26:7    我好發稱謝的聲音。也要述說你一切奇妙的作為。
That I may publish with the voice of thanksgiving, and tell of all thy wondrous works.

26:8    耶和華阿，我喜愛你所住的殿，和你顯榮耀的居所。
LORD, I have loved the habitation of thy house, and the place where thine honour dwelleth.

26:9    不要把我的靈魂和罪人一同除掉，不要把我的性命和流人血的一同除掉。
Gather not my soul with sinners, nor my life with bloody men:

26:10    他們的手中有奸惡，右手滿有賄賂。
In whose hands is mischief, and their right hand is full of bribes.

26:11    至於我，卻要行事純全。求你救贖我，憐恤我。
But as for me, I will walk in mine integrity: redeem me, and be merciful unto me.

26:12    我的腳站在平坦地方。在眾會中我要稱頌耶和華。
My foot standeth in an even place: in the congregations will I bless the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


27:1    耶和華是我的亮光，是我的拯救。我還怕誰呢。耶和華是我性命的保障，我還懼誰呢。
The LORD is my light and my salvation; whom shall I fear? the LORD is the strength of my life; of whom shall I be afraid?

27:2    那作惡的，就是我的仇敵，前來吃我肉的時候，就絆跌仆倒。
When the wicked, even mine enemies and my foes, came upon me to eat up my flesh, they stumbled and fell.

27:3    雖有軍兵安營攻擊我，我的心也不害怕。雖然興起刀兵攻擊我，我必仍舊安穩。
Though an host should encamp against me, my heart shall not fear: though war should rise against me, in this will I be confident.

27:4    有一件事，我曾求耶和華，我仍要尋求。就是一生一世住在耶和華的殿中，瞻仰他的榮美，在他的殿裡求問。
One thing have I desired of the LORD, that will I seek after; that I may dwell in the house of the LORD all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the LORD, and to enquire in his temple.

27:5    因為我遭遇患難，他必暗暗的保守我。在他亭子裡，把我藏在他帳幕的隱密處，將我高舉在磐石上。
For in the time of trouble he shall hide me in his pavilion: in the secret of his tabernacle shall he hide me; he shall set me up upon a rock.

27:6    現在我得以昂首，高過四面的仇敵。我要在他的帳幕裡歡然獻祭。我要唱詩，歌頌耶和華。
And now shall mine head be lifted up above mine enemies round about me: therefore will I offer in his tabernacle sacrifices of joy; I will sing, yea, I will sing praises unto the LORD.

27:7    耶和華阿，我用聲音呼籲的時候，求你垂聽。並求你憐恤我，應允我。
Hear, O LORD, when I cry with my voice: have mercy also upon me, and answer me.

27:8    你說，你們當尋求我的面。那時我心向你說，耶和華阿，你的面我正要尋求。
When thou saidst, Seek ye my face; my heart said unto thee, Thy face, LORD, will I seek.

27:9    不要向我掩面，不要發怒趕逐僕人。你向來是幫助我的。救我的神阿，不要丟掉我，也不要離棄我。
Hide not thy face far from me; put not thy servant away in anger: thou hast been my help; leave me not, neither forsake me, O God of my salvation.

27:10    我父母離棄我，耶和華必收留我。
When my father and my mother forsake me, then the LORD will take me up.

27:11    耶和華阿，求你將你的道指教我，因我仇敵的緣故引導我走平坦的路。
Teach me thy way, O LORD, and lead me in a plain path, because of mine enemies.

27:12    求你不要把我交給敵人，逐其所願，因為妄作見證的，和吐凶言的，起來攻擊我。
Deliver me not over unto the will of mine enemies: for false witnesses are risen up against me, and such as breathe out cruelty.

27:13    我若不信在活人之地得見耶和華的恩惠，就早已喪膽了
I had fainted, unless I had believed to see the goodness of the LORD in the land of the living.

27:14    要等候耶和華。當壯膽，堅固你的心。我再說，要等候耶和華。
Wait on the LORD: be of good courage, and he shall strengthen thine heart: wait, I say, on the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


28:1    耶和華阿，我要求告你。我的磐石阿，不要向我緘默。倘若你向我閉口，我就如將死的人一樣。
Unto thee will I cry, O LORD my rock; be not silent to me: lest, if thou be silent to me, I become like them that go down into the pit.

28:2    我呼求你，向你至聖所舉手的時候，求你垂聽我懇求的聲音。
Hear the voice of my supplications, when I cry unto thee, when I lift up my hands toward thy holy oracle.

28:3    不要把我和惡人，並作孽的，一同除掉。他們與鄰舍說和平話，心裡卻是奸惡。
Draw me not away with the wicked, and with the workers of iniquity, which speak peace to their neighbours, but mischief is in their hearts.

28:4    願你按著他們所作的，並他們所行的惡事待他們。願你照著他們手所作的待他們。將他們所應得的報應加給他們。
Give them according to their deeds, and according to the wickedness of their endeavours: give them after the work of their hands; render to them their desert.

28:5    他們既然不留心耶和華所行的，和他手所作的，他就必毀壞他們，不建立他們。
Because they regard not the works of the LORD, nor the operation of his hands, he shall destroy them, and not build them up.

28:6    耶和華是應當稱頌的，因為他聽了我懇求的聲音。
Blessed be the LORD, because he hath heard the voice of my supplications.

28:7    耶和華是我的力量，是我的盾牌。我心裡倚靠他，就得幫助。所以我心中歡樂。我必用詩歌頌讚他。
The LORD is my strength and my shield; my heart trusted in him, and I am helped: therefore my heart greatly rejoiceth; and with my song will I praise him.

28:8    耶和華是他百姓的力量，又是他受膏者得救的保障。
The LORD is their strength, and he is the saving strength of his anointed.

28:9    求你拯救你的百姓，賜福給你的產業，牧養他們，扶持他們，直到永遠。
Save thy people, and bless thine inheritance: feed them also, and lift them up for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


29:1    神的眾子阿，你們要將榮耀能力，歸給耶和華。歸給耶和華。
Give unto the LORD, O ye mighty, give unto the LORD glory and strength.

29:2    要將耶和華的名所當得的榮耀歸給他。以聖潔的妝飾敬拜耶和華。
Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name; worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness.

29:3    耶和華的聲音在水上。榮耀的神打雷，耶和華打雷在大水之上。
The voice of the LORD is upon the waters: the God of glory thundereth: the LORD is upon many waters.

29:4    耶和華的聲音大有能力。耶和華的聲音滿有威嚴。
The voice of the LORD is powerful; the voice of the LORD is full of majesty.

29:5    耶和華的聲音震破香柏樹。耶和華震碎黎巴嫩的香柏樹。
The voice of the LORD breaketh the cedars; yea, the LORD breaketh the cedars of Lebanon.

29:6    他也使之跳躍如牛犢，使黎巴嫩和西連跳躍如野牛犢。
He maketh them also to skip like a calf; Lebanon and Sirion like a young unicorn.

29:7    耶和華的聲音使火焰分岔。
The voice of the LORD divideth the flames of fire.

29:8    耶和華的聲音震動曠野。耶和華震動加低斯的曠野。
The voice of the LORD shaketh the wilderness; the LORD shaketh the wilderness of Kadesh.

29:9    耶和華的聲音驚動母鹿落胎，樹木也脫落淨光。凡在他殿中的，都稱說他的榮耀。
The voice of the LORD maketh the hinds to calve, and discovereth the forests: and in his temple doth every one speak of his glory.

29:10    洪水氾濫之時，耶和華坐著為王。耶和華坐著為王，直到永遠。
The LORD sitteth upon the flood; yea, the LORD sitteth King for ever.

29:11    耶和華必賜力量給他的百姓。耶和華必賜平安的福給他的百姓。
The LORD will give strength unto his people; the LORD will bless his people with peace.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


30:1    耶和華阿，我要尊崇你，因為你曾提拔我，不叫仇敵向我誇耀。
I will extol thee, O LORD; for thou hast lifted me up, and hast not made my foes to rejoice over me.

30:2    耶和華我的神阿，我曾呼求你，你醫治了我。
O LORD my God, I cried unto thee, and thou hast healed me.

30:3    耶和華阿，你曾把我的靈魂從陰間救上來，使我存活，不至於下坑。
O LORD, thou hast brought up my soul from the grave: thou hast kept me alive, that I should not go down to the pit.

30:4    耶和華的聖民哪，你們要歌頌他，稱讚他可記念的聖名。
Sing unto the LORD, O ye saints of his, and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.

30:5    因為他的怒氣不過是轉眼之間。他的恩典乃是一生之久。一宿雖然有哭泣，早晨便必歡呼。
For his anger endureth but a moment; in his favour is life: weeping may endure for a night, but joy cometh in the morning.

30:6    至於我，我凡事平順，便說，我永不動搖。
And in my prosperity I said, I shall never be moved.

30:7    耶和華阿，你曾施恩，叫我的江山穩固。你掩了面，我就驚惶。
LORD, by thy favour thou hast made my mountain to stand strong: thou didst hide thy face, and I was troubled.

30:8    耶和華阿，我曾求告你。我向耶和華懇求，說，
I cried to thee, O LORD; and unto the LORD I made supplication.

30:9    我被害流血，下到坑中，有什麼益處呢。塵土豈能稱讚你，傳說你的誠實嗎。
What profit is there in my blood, when I go down to the pit? Shall the dust praise thee? shall it declare thy truth?

30:10    耶和華阿，求你應允我，憐恤我。耶和華阿，求你幫助我。
Hear, O LORD, and have mercy upon me: LORD, be thou my helper.

30:11    你已將我的哀哭變為跳舞，將我的麻衣脫去，給我披上喜樂。
Thou hast turned for me my mourning into dancing: thou hast put off my sackcloth, and girded me with gladness;

30:12    好叫我的靈（原文作榮耀）歌頌你，並不住聲。耶和華我的神阿，我要稱謝你，直到永遠。
To the end that my glory may sing praise to thee, and not be silent. O LORD my God, I will give thanks unto thee for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


31:1    （大衛的詩交與伶長）耶和華阿，我投靠你，求你使我永不羞愧，憑你的公義搭救我。
In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust; let me never be ashamed: deliver me in thy righteousness.

31:2    求你側耳而聽，快快救我，作我堅固的磐石，拯救我的保障。
Bow down thine ear to me; deliver me speedily: be thou my strong rock, for an house of defence to save me.

31:3    因為你是我的岩石，我的山寨。所以求你為你名的緣故，引導我，指點我。
For thou art my rock and my fortress; therefore for thy name's sake lead me, and guide me.

31:4    求你救我脫離人為我暗設的網羅。因為你是我的保障。
Pull me out of the net that they have laid privily for me: for thou art my strength.

31:5    我將我的靈魂交在你手裡。耶和華誠實的神阿，你救贖了我。
Into thine hand I commit my spirit: thou hast redeemed me, O LORD God of truth.

31:6    我恨惡那信奉虛無之神的人。我卻倚靠耶和華。
I have hated them that regard lying vanities: but I trust in the LORD.

31:7    我要為你的慈愛高興歡喜。因為你見過我的困苦，知道我心中的艱難。
I will be glad and rejoice in thy mercy: for thou hast considered my trouble; thou hast known my soul in adversities;

31:8    你未曾把我交在仇敵手裡。你使我的腳站在寬闊之處。
And hast not shut me up into the hand of the enemy: thou hast set my feet in a large room.

31:9    耶和華阿，求你憐恤我，因為我在急難之中。我的眼睛因憂愁而乾癟，連我的身心，也不安舒。
Have mercy upon me, O LORD, for I am in trouble: mine eye is consumed with grief, yea, my soul and my belly.

31:10    我的生命為愁苦所消耗。我的年歲為嘆息所曠廢。我的力量因我的罪孽衰敗。我的骨頭也枯乾。
For my life is spent with grief, and my years with sighing: my strength faileth because of mine iniquity, and my bones are consumed.

31:11    我因一切敵人成了羞辱，在我的鄰舍跟前更甚。那認識我的都懼怕我。在外頭看見我的都躲避我。
I was a reproach among all mine enemies, but especially among my neighbours, and a fear to mine acquaintance: they that did see me without fled from me.

31:12    我被人忘記，如同死人，無人記念。我好像破碎的器皿。
I am forgotten as a dead man out of mind: I am like a broken vessel.

31:13    我聽見了許多人的讒謗，四圍都是驚嚇。他們一同商議攻擊我的時候，就圖謀要害我的性命。
For I have heard the slander of many: fear was on every side: while they took counsel together against me, they devised to take away my life.

31:14    耶和華阿，我仍舊倚靠你。我說，你是我的神。
But I trusted in thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my God.

31:15    我終身的事在你手中。求你救我脫離仇敵的手，和那些逼迫我的人。
My times are in thy hand: deliver me from the hand of mine enemies, and from them that persecute me.

31:16    求你使你的臉光照僕人，憑你的慈愛拯救我。
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant: save me for thy mercies' sake.

31:17    耶和華阿，求你叫我不至羞愧。因為我曾呼籲你。求你使惡人羞愧，使他們在陰間緘默無聲。
Let me not be ashamed, O LORD; for I have called upon thee: let the wicked be ashamed, and let them be silent in the grave.

31:18    那撒謊的人，逞驕傲輕慢，出狂妄的話攻擊義人。願他的嘴啞而無言。
Let the lying lips be put to silence; which speak grievous things proudly and contemptuously against the righteous.

31:19    敬畏你投靠你的人，你為他們所積存的，在世人面前所施行的恩惠，是何等大呢。
Oh how great is thy goodness, which thou hast laid up for them that fear thee; which thou hast wrought for them that trust in thee before the sons of men!

31:20    你必把他們藏在你面前的隱密處，免得遇見人的計謀。你必暗暗的保守他們在亭子裡，免受口舌的爭鬧。
Thou shalt hide them in the secret of thy presence from the pride of man: thou shalt keep them secretly in a pavilion from the strife of tongues.

31:21    耶和華是應當稱頌的。因為他在堅固城裡，向我施展奇妙的慈愛。
Blessed be the LORD: for he hath shewed me his marvellous kindness in a strong city.

31:22    至於我，我曾急促的說，我從你眼前被隔絕。然而我呼求你的時候，你仍聽我懇求的聲音。
For I said in my haste, I am cut off from before thine eyes: nevertheless thou heardest the voice of my supplications when I cried unto thee.

31:23    耶和華的聖民哪，你們都要愛他。耶和華保護誠實人，足足報應行事驕傲的人。
O love the LORD, all ye his saints: for the LORD preserveth the faithful, and plentifully rewardeth the proud doer.

31:24    凡仰望耶和華的人，你們都要壯膽，堅固你們的心。
Be of good courage, and he shall strengthen your heart, all ye that hope in the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


32:1    （大衛的訓誨詩）得赦免其過，遮蓋其罪的，這人是有福的。
Blessed is he whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered.

32:2    凡心裡沒有詭詐，耶和華不算為有罪的，這人是有福的。
Blessed is the man unto whom the LORD imputeth not iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no guile.

32:3    我閉口不認罪的時候，因終日唉哼，而骨頭枯乾。
When I kept silence, my bones waxed old through my roaring all the day long.

32:4    黑夜白日，你的手在我身上沉重。我的精液耗盡，如同夏天的乾旱。（細拉）
For day and night thy hand was heavy upon me: my moisture is turned into the drought of summer. Selah.

32:5    我向你陳明我的罪，不隱瞞我的惡。我說，我要向耶和華承認我的過犯，你就赦免我的罪。（細拉）
I acknowledged my sin unto thee, and mine iniquity have I not hid. I said, I will confess my transgressions unto the LORD; and thou forgavest the iniquity of my sin. Selah.

32:6    為此，凡虔誠人，都當趁你可尋梢的時候禱告你。大水泛溢的時候，必不能到他那裡。
For this shall every one that is godly pray unto thee in a time when thou mayest be found: surely in the floods of great waters they shall not come nigh unto him.

32:7    你是我藏身之處。你必保佑我脫離苦難，以得救的樂歌，四面環繞我。（細拉）
Thou art my hiding place; thou shalt preserve me from trouble; thou shalt compass me about with songs of deliverance. Selah.

32:8    我要教導你，指示你當行的路。我要定睛在你身上勸戒你。
I will instruct thee and teach thee in the way which thou shalt go: I will guide thee with mine eye.

32:9    你不可像那無知的騾馬，必用嚼環轡頭勒住他，不然，就不能順服。
Be ye not as the horse, or as the mule, which have no understanding: whose mouth must be held in with bit and bridle, lest they come near unto thee.



32:10    惡人必多受苦楚。唯獨倚靠耶和華的，必有慈愛四面環繞他。
Many sorrows shall be to the wicked: but he that trusteth in the LORD, mercy shall compass him about.

32:11    你們義人應當靠耶和華歡喜快樂。你們心裡正直的人，都當歡呼。
Be glad in the LORD, and rejoice, ye righteous: and shout for joy, all ye that are upright in heart.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


33:1    義人哪，你們應當靠耶和華歡樂。正直人的讚美是合宜的。
Rejoice in the LORD, O ye righteous: for praise is comely for the upright.

33:2    你們應當彈琴稱謝耶和華，用十弦瑟歌頌他。
Praise the LORD with harp: sing unto him with the psaltery and an instrument of ten strings.

33:3    應當向他唱新歌，彈得巧妙，聲音洪亮。
Sing unto him a new song; play skilfully with a loud noise.

33:4    因為耶和華的言語正直。凡他所作的，盡都誠實。
For the word of the LORD is right; and all his works are done in truth.

33:5    他喜愛仁義公平。遍地滿了耶和華的慈愛。
He loveth righteousness and judgment: the earth is full of the goodness of the LORD.

33:6    諸天藉耶和華的命而造，永珍藉他口中的氣而成。
By the word of the LORD were the heavens made; and all the host of them by the breath of his mouth.

33:7    他聚集海水如壘，收藏深洋在庫房。
He gathereth the waters of the sea together as an heap: he layeth up the depth in storehouses.

33:8    願全地都敬畏耶和華。願世上的居民，都懼怕他。
Let all the earth fear the LORD: let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him.

33:9    因為他說有，就有。命立，就立。
For he spake, and it was done; he commanded, and it stood fast.

33:10    耶和華使列國的壽算歸於無有，使眾民的思念無有功效。
The LORD bringeth the counsel of the heathen to nought: he maketh the devices of the people of none effect.

33:11    耶和華的壽算永遠立定，他心中的思念萬帶常存。
The counsel of the LORD standeth for ever, the thoughts of his heart to all generations.

33:12    以耶和華為神的，那國是有福的。他所揀選為自己產業的，那民是有福的。
Blessed is the nation whose God is the LORD; and the people whom he hath chosen for his own inheritance.

33:13    耶和華從天上觀看。他看見一切的世人。
The LORD looketh from heaven; he beholdeth all the sons of men.

33:14    從他的居所，往外察看地上的居民。
From the place of his habitation he looketh upon all the inhabitants of the earth.

33:15    他是那造成他們眾人心的，留意他們一切作為的。
He fashioneth their hearts alike; he considereth all their works.

33:16    君王不能因兵多得勝。勇士不能因力大得救。
There is no king saved by the multitude of an host: a mighty man is not delivered by much strength.

33:17    靠馬得救是枉然的。馬也不能因力大救人。
An horse is a vain thing for safety: neither shall he deliver any by his great strength.

33:18    耶和華的眼目，看顧敬畏他的人，和仰望他慈愛的人，
Behold, the eye of the LORD is upon them that fear him, upon them that hope in his mercy;

33:19    要救他們的命脫離死亡，並使他們在饑荒中存活。
To deliver their soul from death, and to keep them alive in famine.

33:20    我們的心向來等候耶和華。他是我們的幫助，我們的盾牌。
Our soul waiteth for the LORD: he is our help and our shield.

33:21    我們的心必靠他歡喜，因為我們向來倚靠他的聖名。
For our heart shall rejoice in him, because we have trusted in his holy name.

33:22    耶和華阿，求你照著我們所仰望你的，向我們施行慈愛。
Let thy mercy, O LORD, be upon us, according as we hope in thee.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


34:1    我要時時稱頌耶和華。讚美他的話必常在我口中。
I will bless the LORD at all times: his praise shall continually be in my mouth.

34:2    我的心必因耶和華誇耀。謙卑人聽見，就要喜樂。
My soul shall make her boast in the LORD: the humble shall hear thereof, and be glad.

34:3    你們和我當稱耶和華為大，一同高舉他的名。
O magnify the LORD with me, and let us exalt his name together.

34:4    我曾尋求耶和華，他就應允我，救我脫離了一切的恐懼。
I sought the LORD, and he heard me, and delivered me from all my fears.

34:5    凡仰望他的，便有光榮。他們的臉，必不蒙羞。
They looked unto him, and were lightened: and their faces were not ashamed.

34:6    我這困苦人呼求，耶和華便垂聽，救我脫離一切患難。
This poor man cried, and the LORD heard him, and saved him out of all his troubles.

34:7    耶和華的使者，在敬畏他的人四圍安營，搭救他們。
The angel of the LORD encampeth round about them that fear him, and delivereth them.

34:8    你們要嚐嚐主恩的滋味，便知道他是美善。投靠他的人有福了。
O taste and see that the LORD is good: blessed is the man that trusteth in him.

34:9    耶和華的聖民哪，你們當敬畏他，因敬畏他的一無所缺。
O fear the LORD, ye his saints: for there is no want to them that fear him.

34:10    少壯獅子，還缺食忍餓。但尋求耶和華的。什麼好處都不缺。
The young lions do lack, and suffer hunger: but they that seek the LORD shall not want any good thing.

34:11    眾弟子阿，你們當來聽我的話。我要將敬畏耶和華的道教訓你們。
Come, ye children, hearken unto me: I will teach you the fear of the LORD.

34:12    有何人喜好存活，愛慕長壽，得享美福。
What man is he that desireth life, and loveth many days, that he may see good?

34:13    就要禁止舌頭不出惡言，嘴脣不說詭詐的話。
Keep thy tongue from evil, and thy lips from speaking guile.

34:14    要離惡行善，尋求和睦，一心追趕。
Depart from evil, and do good; seek peace, and pursue it.



34:15    耶和華的眼目，看顧義人，他的耳朵，聽他們的呼求。
The eyes of the LORD are upon the righteous, and his ears are open unto their cry.

34:16    耶和華向行惡的人變臉，要從世上除滅他們的名號。
The face of the LORD is against them that do evil, to cut off the remembrance of them from the earth.

34:17    義人呼求，耶和華聽見了，便救他們脫離一切患難。
The righteous cry, and the LORD heareth, and delivereth them out of all their troubles.

34:18    耶和華靠近傷心的人，拯救靈性痛悔的人。
The LORD is nigh unto them that are of a broken heart; and saveth such as be of a contrite spirit.

34:19    義人多有苦難。但耶和華救他脫離這一切。
Many are the afflictions of the righteous: but the LORD delivereth him out of them all.

34:20    又要保全他一身的骨頭，連一根也不折斷。
He keepeth all his bones: not one of them is broken.

34:21    惡必害死惡人。恨惡義人的，必被定罪。
Evil shall slay the wicked: and they that hate the righteous shall be desolate.

34:22    耶和華救贖他僕人的靈魂。凡投靠他的，必不至定罪。
The LORD redeemeth the soul of his servants: and none of them that trust in him shall be desolate.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


35:1    耶和華阿，與我相爭的，求你與他們相爭。與我相戰的，求你與他們相戰。
Plead my cause, O LORD, with them that strive with me: fight against them that fight against me.

35:2    拿著大小的盾牌，起來幫助我。
Take hold of shield and buckler, and stand up for mine help.

35:3    抽出槍來，擋住那追趕我的。求你對我的靈魂說，我是拯救你的。
Draw out also the spear, and stop the way against them that persecute me: say unto my soul, I am thy salvation.

35:4    願那尋索我命的，蒙羞受辱。願那謀害我的，退後羞愧。
Let them be confounded and put to shame that seek after my soul: let them be turned back and brought to confusion that devise my hurt.

35:5    願他們像風前的糠，有耶和華的使者趕逐他們。
Let them be as chaff before the wind: and let the angel of the LORD chase them.

35:6    願他們的道路，又暗又滑，有耶和華的使者追趕他們。
Let their way be dark and slippery: and let the angel of the LORD persecute them.

35:7    因他們無故的為我暗設網羅。無故的挖坑要害我的性命。
For without cause have they hid for me their net in a pit, which without cause they have digged for my soul.

35:8    願災禍忽然臨到他身上。願他暗設的網纏住自己。願他落在其中遭災禍。
Let destruction come upon him at unawares; and let his net that he hath hid catch himself: into that very destruction let him fall.

35:9    我的心必靠耶和華快樂，靠他的救恩高興。
And my soul shall be joyful in the LORD: it shall rejoice in his salvation.

35:10    我的骨頭都要說，耶和華阿，誰能像你救護困苦人，脫離那比他強壯的，救護困苦窮乏人，脫離那搶奪他的。
All my bones shall say, LORD, who is like unto thee, which deliverest the poor from him that is too strong for him, yea, the poor and the needy from him that spoileth him?

35:11    凶惡的見證人起來，盤問我所不知道的事。
False witnesses did rise up; they laid to my charge things that I knew not.

35:12    他們向我以惡報善，使我的靈魂孤苦。
They rewarded me evil for good to the spoiling of my soul.

35:13    至於我，當他們有病的時候，我便穿麻衣，禁食刻苦己心。我所求的都歸到自己的懷中。
But as for me, when they were sick, my clothing was sackcloth: I humbled my soul with fasting; and my prayer returned into mine own bosom.

35:14    我這樣行，好像他是我的朋友，我的弟兄。我屈身悲哀，如同人為母親哀痛。
I behaved myself as though he had been my friend or brother: I bowed down heavily, as one that mourneth for his mother.

35:15    我在患難中，他們卻歡喜，大家聚集。我所不認識的那些下流人，聚集攻擊我。他們不住的把我撕裂。
But in mine adversity they rejoiced, and gathered themselves together: yea, the abjects gathered themselves together against me, and I knew it not; they did tear me, and ceased not:

35:16    他們如同席上好嬉笑的狂妄人，向我咬牙。
With hypocritical mockers in feasts, they gnashed upon me with their teeth.

35:17    主阿，你看著不理，要到幾時呢。求你救我的靈魂，脫離他們的殘害，救我的生命，脫離少壯獅子。（生命原文作獨一者）
Lord, how long wilt thou look on? rescue my soul from their destructions, my darling from the lions.

35:18    我在大會中要稱謝你，在眾民中要讚美你。
I will give thee thanks in the great congregation: I will praise thee among much people.

35:19    求你不容那無理與我為仇的，向我誇耀。不容那無故恨我的，向我擠眼。
Let not them that are mine enemies wrongfully rejoice over me: neither let them wink with the eye that hate me without a cause.

35:20    因為他們不說和平話。倒想出詭詐的言語，害地上的安靜人。
For they speak not peace: but they devise deceitful matters against them that are quiet in the land.

35:21    他們大大張口攻擊我，說，阿哈，阿哈，我們的眼已經看見了。
Yea, they opened their mouth wide against me, and said, Aha, aha, our eye hath seen it.

35:22    耶和華阿，你已經看見了。求你不要閉口。主阿，求你不要遠離我。
This thou hast seen, O LORD: keep not silence: O Lord, be not far from me.

35:23    我的神我的主阿，求你奮興醒起，判清我的事，伸明我的冤。
Stir up thyself, and awake to my judgment, even unto my cause, my God and my Lord.

35:24    耶和華我的神阿，求你按你的公義判斷我，不容他們向我誇耀。
Judge me, O LORD my God, according to thy righteousness; and let them not rejoice over me.

35:25    不容他們心裡說，阿哈，逐我們的心願了。不容他們說，我們已經把他吞了。
Let them not say in their hearts, Ah, so would we have it: let them not say, We have swallowed him up.

35:26    願那喜歡我遭難的，一同抱愧蒙羞。願那向我妄自尊大的，披慚愧，蒙羞辱。
Let them be ashamed and brought to confusion together that rejoice at mine hurt: let them be clothed with shame and dishonour that magnify themselves against me.

35:27    願那喜悅我冤屈得伸的，（冤屈得伸原文作公義），歡呼快樂。願他們常說，當尊耶和華為大。耶和華喜悅他的僕人平安。
Let them shout for joy, and be glad, that favour my righteous cause: yea, let them say continually, Let the LORD be magnified, which hath pleasure in the prosperity of his servant.

35:28    我的舌頭，要終日論說你的公義，時常讚美你。
And my tongue shall speak of thy righteousness and of thy praise all the day long.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


36:1    （耶和華的僕人大衛的詩，交與伶長）惡人的罪過，在他心裡說，我眼中不怕神。
The transgression of the wicked saith within my heart, that there is no fear of God before his eyes.

36:2    他自誇自媚，以為他的罪孽終不顯露，不被恨惡。
For he flattereth himself in his own eyes, until his iniquity be found to be hateful.

36:3    他口中的言語，盡是罪孽詭詐。他與智慧善行，已經斷絕。
The words of his mouth are iniquity and deceit: he hath left off to be wise, and to do good.

36:4    他在床上圖謀罪孽，定意行不善的道，不憎惡惡事。
He deviseth mischief upon his bed; he setteth himself in a way that is not good; he abhorreth not evil.

36:5    耶和華阿，你的慈愛，上及諸天。你的信實，達到穹蒼。
Thy mercy, O LORD, is in the heavens; and thy faithfulness reacheth unto the clouds.

36:6    你的公義，好像高山。你的判斷，如同深淵。耶和華阿，人民牲畜，你都救護。
Thy righteousness is like the great mountains; thy judgments are a great deep: O LORD, thou preservest man and beast.

36:7    神阿，你的慈愛，何其寶貴。世上投靠在你翅膀的蔭下。
How excellent is thy lovingkindness, O God! therefore the children of men put their trust under the shadow of thy wings.

36:8    他們必因你殿裡的肥甘，得以飽足。你也必叫他們喝你樂河的水
They shall be abundantly satisfied with the fatness of thy house; and thou shalt make them drink of the river of thy pleasures.

36:9    因為在你那裡，有生命的源頭。在你的光中，我們必得見光
For with thee is the fountain of life: in thy light shall we see light.

36:10    願你常施慈愛給認識你的人。常以公義待心裡正直的人。
O continue thy lovingkindness unto them that know thee; and thy righteousness to the upright in heart.

36:11    不容驕傲人的腳踏我，不容凶惡人的手趕逐我。
Let not the foot of pride come against me, and let not the hand of the wicked remove me.

36:12    在那裡作孽的人，已經仆倒。他們被推倒，不能再起來。
There are the workers of iniquity fallen: they are cast down, and shall not be able to rise.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 37 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


37:1    （大衛的詩）不要為作惡的，心懷不平，也不要向那行不義的，生出嫉妒。
Fret not thyself because of evildoers, neither be thou envious against the workers of iniquity.

37:2    因為他們如草快被割下，又如青菜快要枯乾。
For they shall soon be cut down like the grass, and wither as the green herb.

37:3    你當倚靠耶和華而行善。住在地上，以他的信實為糧。
Trust in the LORD, and do good; so shalt thou dwell in the land, and verily thou shalt be fed.

37:4    又要以耶和華為樂。他就將你心裡所求的賜給你。
Delight thyself also in the LORD: and he shall give thee the desires of thine heart.

37:5    當將你的事交託耶和華，並倚靠他，他就必成全。
Commit thy way unto the LORD; trust also in him; and he shall bring it to pass.

37:6    他要使你的公義，如光發出，使你的公平，明如正午。
And he shall bring forth thy righteousness as the light, and thy judgment as the noonday.

37:7    你當默然倚靠耶和華，耐性等候他。不要因那道路通達的，和那惡謀成就的，心懷不平。
Rest in the LORD, and wait patiently for him: fret not thyself because of him who prospereth in his way, because of the man who bringeth wicked devices to pass.

37:8    當止住怒氣，離棄忿怒。不要心懷不平，以致作惡。
Cease from anger, and forsake wrath: fret not thyself in any wise to do evil.

37:9    因為作惡的，必被剪除。惟有等候耶和華的，必承受地土。
For evildoers shall be cut off: but those that wait upon the LORD, they shall inherit the earth.

37:10    還有片時，惡人要歸於無有。你就細察他的住處，也要歸於無有。
For yet a little while, and the wicked shall not be: yea, thou shalt diligently consider his place, and it shall not be.

37:11    但謙卑人必承受地土，以豐盛的平安為樂。
But the meek shall inherit the earth; and shall delight themselves in the abundance of peace.

37:12    惡人設謀害義人，又向他咬牙。
The wicked plotteth against the just, and gnasheth upon him with his teeth.

37:13    主要笑他，因見他受罰的日子將要來到。
The LORD shall laugh at him: for he seeth that his day is coming.

37:14    惡人已經弓上弦，刀出鞘，要打倒困苦窮乏的人，要殺害行動正直的人。
The wicked have drawn out the sword, and have bent their bow, to cast down the poor and needy, and to slay such as be of upright conversation.

37:15    他們的刀，必刺入自己的心，他們的弓，必被折斷。
Their sword shall enter into their own heart, and their bows shall be broken.

37:16    一個義人所有的雖少，強過許多惡人的富餘。
A little that a righteous man hath is better than the riches of many wicked.

37:17    因為惡人的膀臂，必被折斷。但耶和華是扶持義人。
For the arms of the wicked shall be broken: but the LORD upholdeth the righteous.

37:18    耶和華知道完全人的日子。他們的產業，要存到永遠。
The LORD knoweth the days of the upright: and their inheritance shall be for ever.

37:19    他們在急難的時候，不至羞愧，在饑荒的日子，必得飽足。
They shall not be ashamed in the evil time: and in the days of famine they shall be satisfied.

37:20    惡人卻要滅亡。耶和華的仇敵，要像羊羔的脂油。（或作像草地的華美）他們要消滅，要如煙消滅。
But the wicked shall perish, and the enemies of the LORD shall be as the fat of lambs: they shall consume; into smoke shall they consume away.

37:21    惡人借貨而不償還。義人卻恩待人，並且施捨。
The wicked borroweth, and payeth not again: but the righteous sheweth mercy, and giveth.

37:22    蒙耶和華賜福的，必承受地土。被他咒詛的，必被剪除。
For such as be blessed of him shall inherit the earth; and they that be cursed of him shall be cut off.

37:23    義人的腳步，被耶和華立定。他的道路，耶和華也喜愛。
The steps of a good man are ordered by the LORD: and he delighteth in his way.

37:24    他雖失腳，也不至全身仆倒。因為耶和華用手攙扶他。（或作攙扶他的手）
Though he fall, he shall not be utterly cast down: for the LORD upholdeth him with his hand.

37:25    我從前年幼，現在年老，卻未見過義人被棄。也未見過他的後裔討飯。
I have been young, and now am old; yet have I not seen the righteous forsaken, nor his seed begging bread.

37:26    他終日恩待人，借給人。他的後裔也蒙福。
He is ever merciful, and lendeth; and his seed is blessed.

37:27    你當離惡行善，就可永遠安居。
Depart from evil, and do good; and dwell for evermore.

37:28    因為耶和華喜愛公平，不撇棄他的聖民。他們永蒙保佑。但惡人的後裔，必被剪除。
For the LORD loveth judgment, and forsaketh not his saints; they are preserved for ever: but the seed of the wicked shall be cut off.

37:29    義人必承受地土，永居其上。
The righteous shall inherit the land, and dwell therein for ever.

37:30    義人的口談論智慧，他的舌頭講說公平。
The mouth of the righteous speaketh wisdom, and his tongue talketh of judgment.

37:31    神的律法在他心裡。他的腳總不滑跌。
The law of his God is in his heart; none of his steps shall slide.

37:32    惡人窺探義人，想要殺他。
The wicked watcheth the righteous, and seeketh to slay him.

37:33    耶和華必不撇他在惡人手中，當審判的時候，也不定他的罪。
The LORD will not leave him in his hand, nor condemn him when he is judged.

37:34    你當等候耶和華，遵守他的道，他就抬舉你，使你承受地土。惡人被剪除的時候，你必看見。
Wait on the LORD, and keep his way, and he shall exalt thee to inherit the land: when the wicked are cut off, thou shalt see it.

37:35    我見過惡人大有勢力，好像一根青翠樹在本土生髮。
I have seen the wicked in great power, and spreading himself like a green bay tree.

37:36    有人從那裡經過，不料，他沒有了。我也尋梢他，卻尋不著。
Yet he passed away, and, lo, he was not: yea, I sought him, but he could not be found.



37:37    你要細察那完全人，觀看那正直人。因為和平人有好結局。
Mark the perfect man, and behold the upright: for the end of that man is peace.

37:38    至於犯法的人，必一同滅絕。惡人終必剪除。
But the transgressors shall be destroyed together: the end of the wicked shall be cut off.

37:39    但義人得救，是由於耶和華。他在患難時作他們的營寨。
But the salvation of the righteous is of the LORD: he is their strength in the time of trouble.

37:40    耶和華幫助他們，解救他們。他解救他們脫離惡人，把他們救出來，因為他們投靠他。
And the LORD shall help them, and deliver them: he shall deliver them from the wicked, and save them, because they trust in him.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 38 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


38:1    （大衛的記念詩）耶和華阿，求你不要在怒中責備我。不要在烈怒中懲罰我。
O LORD, rebuke me not in thy wrath: neither chasten me in thy hot displeasure.

38:2    因為你的箭射入我身，你的手壓住我。
For thine arrows stick fast in me, and thy hand presseth me sore.

38:3    因你的腦怒，我的肉無一完全。因我的罪過，我的骨頭也不安寧。
There is no soundness in my flesh because of thine anger; neither is there any rest in my bones because of my sin.

38:4    我的罪孽高過我的頭，如同重擔叫我擔當不起。
For mine iniquities are gone over mine head: as an heavy burden they are too heavy for me.

38:5    因我的愚昧，我的傷發臭流膿。
My wounds stink and are corrupt because of my foolishness.

38:6    我疼痛，大大拳曲，終日哀痛。
I am troubled; I am bowed down greatly; I go mourning all the day long.

38:7    我滿腰是火。我的肉無一完全。
For my loins are filled with a loathsome disease: and there is no soundness in my flesh.

38:8    我被壓傷，身體疲倦。因心裡不安，我就唉哼。
I am feeble and sore broken: I have roared by reason of the disquietness of my heart.

38:9    主阿，我的心願都在你面前。我的嘆息不向你隱瞞。
Lord, all my desire is before thee; and my groaning is not hid from thee.

38:10    我心跳動，我力衰微，連我眼中的光，也沒有了。
My heart panteth, my strength faileth me: as for the light of mine eyes, it also is gone from me.

38:11    我的良朋密友，因我的災病，都躲在旁邊站著。我的親戚本家，也遠遠的站立。
My lovers and my friends stand aloof from my sore; and my kinsmen stand afar off.

38:12    那尋索我命的，設下網羅。那想要害我的，口出惡言，終日思想詭計。
They also that seek after my life lay snares for me: and they that seek my hurt speak mischievous things, and imagine deceits all the day long.

38:13    但我如聾子不聽，像啞吧不開口。
But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that openeth not his mouth.

38:14    我如不聽見的人，口中沒有回話。
Thus I was as a man that heareth not, and in whose mouth are no reproofs.

38:15    耶和華阿，我仰望你。主我的神阿，你必應允我。
For in thee, O LORD, do I hope: thou wilt hear, O Lord my God.

38:16    我曾說，恐怕他們向我誇耀。我失腳的時候，他們向我誇大。
For I said, Hear me, lest otherwise they should rejoice over me: when my foot slippeth, they magnify themselves against me.

38:17    我幾乎跌倒，我的痛苦常在我面前。
For I am ready to halt, and my sorrow is continually before me.

38:18    我要承認我的罪孽。我要因我的罪憂愁。
For I will declare mine iniquity; I will be sorry for my sin.

38:19    但我的仇敵又活潑又強壯。無理恨我的增多了。
But mine enemies are lively, and they are strong: and they that hate me wrongfully are multiplied.

38:20    以惡報善的與我作對，因我是追求良善。
They also that render evil for good are mine adversaries; because I follow the thing that good is.

38:21    耶和華阿，求你不要撇棄我。我的神阿，求你不要遠離我。
Forsake me not, O LORD: O my God, be not far from me.

38:22    拯救我的主阿，求你快快幫助我。
Make haste to help me, O Lord my salvation.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 39 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


39:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長耶杜頓）我曾說，我要謹慎我的言行，免得我舌頭犯罪。惡人在我面前的時候，我要用嚼迴環勒住我的口。
I said, I will take heed to my ways, that I sin not with my tongue: I will keep my mouth with a bridle, while the wicked is before me.

39:2    我默然無聲，連好話也不出口。我的愁苦就發動了。
I was dumb with silence, I held my peace, even from good; and my sorrow was stirred.

39:3    我的心在我裡面發熱。我默想的時候，火就燒起，我便用舌頭說話。
My heart was hot within me, while I was musing the fire burned: then spake I with my tongue,

39:4    耶和華阿，求你叫我曉得我身之終，我的壽數幾何，叫我知道我的生命不長。
LORD, make me to know mine end, and the measure of my days, what it is: that I may know how frail I am.

39:5    你使我的年日，窄如手掌。我一生的年數，在你面前，如同無有。各人最穩妥的時候，真是全然虛幻。（細拉）
Behold, thou hast made my days as an handbreadth; and mine age is as nothing before thee: verily every man at his best state is altogether vanity. Selah.

39:6    世人行動實系幻影。他們忙亂，真是枉然。積蓄財寶，不知將來有誰收取。
Surely every man walketh in a vain shew: surely they are disquieted in vain: he heapeth up riches, and knoweth not who shall gather them.

39:7    主阿，如今我等什麼呢。我的指望在乎你。
And now, Lord, what wait I for? my hope is in thee.

39:8    求你救我脫離一切的過犯。不要使我受愚頑人的羞辱。
Deliver me from all my transgressions: make me not the reproach of the foolish.

39:9    因我所遭遇的是出於你，我默然不語。
I was dumb, I opened not my mouth; because thou didst it.



39:10    求你把你的責罰，從我身上免去。因你手的責打，我便消滅。
Remove thy stroke away from me: I am consumed by the blow of thine hand.

39:11    你因人的罪惡，懲罰他的時候，叫他的笑容消滅，（的笑容或作所喜愛的）如衣被蟲所咬。世人真是虛幻。（細拉）
When thou with rebukes dost correct man for iniquity, thou makest his beauty to consume away like a moth: surely every man is vanity. Selah.

39:12    耶和華阿。求你聽我的禱告，留心聽我的呼求。我流淚，求你不要靜默無聲。因為我在你面前是客旅，是寄居的，像我列祖一般。
Hear my prayer, O LORD, and give ear unto my cry; hold not thy peace at my tears: for I am a stranger with thee, and a sojourner, as all my fathers were.

39:13    求你寬容我，使我在去而不返之先，可以力量復原。
O spare me, that I may recover strength, before I go hence, and be no more.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 40 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


40:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長）我曾耐性等候耶和華。他垂聽我的呼求。
I waited patiently for the LORD; and he inclined unto me, and heard my cry.

40:2    他從禍坑裡，從淤泥中，把我拉上來，使我的腳立在磐石上，使我腳步穩當。
He brought me up also out of an horrible pit, out of the miry clay, and set my feet upon a rock, and established my goings.

40:3    他使我口唱新歌，就是讚美我們神的話。許多人必看見而懼怕，並要倚靠耶和華。
And he hath put a new song in my mouth, even praise unto our God: many shall see it, and fear, and shall trust in the LORD.

40:4    那倚靠耶和華，不理會狂傲和偏向虛假之輩的，這人便為有福。
Blessed is that man that maketh the LORD his trust, and respecteth not the proud, nor such as turn aside to lies.

40:5    耶和華我的神阿，你所行的奇事，並你向我們所懷的意念甚多，不能向你陳明。若要陳明，其事不可勝數。
Many, O LORD my God, are thy wonderful works which thou hast done, and thy thoughts which are to us-ward: they cannot be reckoned up in order unto thee: if I would declare and speak of them, they are more than can be numbered.

40:6    祭物和禮物，你不喜悅。你已經開通我的耳朵。燔祭和贖罪祭，非你所要。
Sacrifice and offering thou didst not desire; mine ears hast thou opened: burnt offering and sin offering hast thou not required.

40:7    那時我說，看哪，我來了。我的事在經卷上已經記載了。
Then said I, Lo, I come: in the volume of the book it is written of me,

40:8    我的神阿，我樂意照你的旨意行。你的律法在我心裡。
I delight to do thy will, O my God: yea, thy law is within my heart.

40:9    我在大會中宣傳公義的佳音。我必不止住我的嘴脣。耶和華阿，這是你所知道的。
I have preached righteousness in the great congregation: lo, I have not refrained my lips, O LORD, thou knowest.

40:10    我未曾把你的公義藏在心裡。我已陳明你的信實，和你的救恩。我在大會中未曾隱瞞你的慈愛，和誠實。
I have not hid thy righteousness within my heart; I have declared thy faithfulness and thy salvation: I have not concealed thy lovingkindness and thy truth from the great congregation.

40:11    耶和華阿，求你不要向我止住你的慈悲。願你的慈愛和誠實，常常保佑我。
Withhold not thou thy tender mercies from me, O LORD: let thy lovingkindness and thy truth continually preserve me.

40:12    因有無數的禍患圍困我。我的罪孽追上了我，使我不能昂首。這罪孽比我的頭髮還多。我就心寒膽戰。
For innumerable evils have compassed me about: mine iniquities have taken hold upon me, so that I am not able to look up; they are more than the hairs of mine head: therefore my heart faileth me.

40:13    耶和華阿，求你開恩搭救我。耶和華阿，求你速速幫助我。
Be pleased, O LORD, to deliver me: O LORD, make haste to help me.

40:14    願那些尋梢我，要滅我命的，一同抱愧蒙羞。願那些喜悅我受害的，退後受辱。
Let them be ashamed and confounded together that seek after my soul to destroy it; let them be driven backward and put to shame that wish me evil.

40:15    願那些對我說，阿哈，阿哈的，因羞愧而敗亡。
Let them be desolate for a reward of their shame that say unto me, Aha, aha.

40:16    願一切尋求你的，因你高興歡喜。願那些喜愛你救恩的，常說，當尊耶和華為大。
Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: let such as love thy salvation say continually, The LORD be magnified.

40:17    但我是困苦窮乏的，主仍顧念我。你是幫助我的，搭救我的。神阿，求你不要耽延。
But I am poor and needy; yet the Lord thinketh upon me: thou art my help and my deliverer; make no tarrying, O my God.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 41 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


41:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長）眷顧貧窮的有福了。他遭難的日子，耶和華必搭救他。
Blessed is he that considereth the poor: the LORD will deliver him in time of trouble.

41:2    耶和華必保全他，使他存活。他必在地上享福。求你不要把他交給仇敵，逐其所願。
The LORD will preserve him, and keep him alive; and he shall be blessed upon the earth: and thou wilt not deliver him unto the will of his enemies.

41:3    他病重在榻，耶和華必扶持他。他在病中，你必給他鋪床。
The LORD will strengthen him upon the bed of languishing: thou wilt make all his bed in his sickness.

41:4    我曾說，耶和華阿，求你憐恤我，醫治我。因為我得罪了你。
I said, LORD, be merciful unto me: heal my soul; for I have sinned against thee.

41:5    我的仇敵用惡言議論我，說，他幾時死，他的名才滅亡呢。
Mine enemies speak evil of me, When shall he die, and his name perish?

41:6    他來看我，就說假話。他心存奸惡，走到外邊才說出來。
And if he come to see me, he speaketh vanity: his heart gathereth iniquity to itself; when he goeth abroad, he telleth it.

41:7    一切恨我的，都交頭接耳的議論我。他們設計要害我。
All that hate me whisper together against me: against me do they devise my hurt.

41:8    他們說，有怪病貼在他身上。他已躺臥，必不能再起來。
An evil disease, say they, cleaveth fast unto him: and now that he lieth he shall rise up no more.

41:9    連我知己的朋友，我所倚靠吃過我飯的，也用腳踢我。
Yea, mine own familiar friend, in whom I trusted, which did eat of my bread, hath lifted up his heel against me.

41:10    耶和華阿，求你憐恤我，使我起來，好報復他們。
But thou, O LORD, be merciful unto me, and raise me up, that I may requite them.

41:11    因我的仇敵不得向我誇勝。我從此便知道你喜愛我。
By this I know that thou favourest me, because mine enemy doth not triumph over me.

41:12    你因我純正，就扶持我，使我永遠站在你的面前。
And as for me, thou upholdest me in mine integrity, and settest me before thy face for ever.

41:13    耶和華以色列的神，是應當稱頌的，從亙古直到永遠。阿們，阿們。
Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting, and to everlasting. Amen, and Amen.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 42 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


42:1    （可拉後裔的訓悔詩，交給伶長）神阿，我的心切慕你，如鹿切慕溪水。
As the hart panteth after the water brooks, so panteth my soul after thee, O God.

42:2    我的心渴想神，就是永生神。我幾時得朝見神呢。
My soul thirsteth for God, for the living God: when shall I come and appear before God?

42:3    我晝夜以眼淚當飲食。人不住的對我說，你的神在那裡呢。
My tears have been my meat day and night, while they continually say unto me, Where is thy God?

42:4    我從前與眾人同往，用歡呼稱讚的聲音，領他們到神的殿裡，大家守節。我追想這些事，我的心極其悲傷。
When I remember these things, I pour out my soul in me: for I had gone with the multitude, I went with them to the house of God, with the voice of joy and praise, with a multitude that kept holyday.

42:5    我的心哪，你為何憂悶，為何在我裡面煩躁。因當仰望神。因他笑臉幫助我，我還要稱讚他。
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted in me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him for the help of his countenance.

42:6    我的神阿，我的心在我裡面憂悶。所以我從約旦地，從黑門嶺，從米薩山，記念你。
O my God, my soul is cast down within me: therefore will I remember thee from the land of Jordan, and of the Hermonites, from the hill Mizar.

42:7    你的瀑布發聲，深淵就與深淵響應。你的波浪洪濤漫過我身。
Deep calleth unto deep at the noise of thy waterspouts: all thy waves and thy billows are gone over me.

42:8    白晝耶和華必向我施慈愛。黑夜我要歌頌禱告賜我生命的神。
Yet the LORD will command his lovingkindness in the day time, and in the night his song shall be with me, and my prayer unto the God of my life.

42:9    我要對神我的磐石說，你為何忘記我呢。我為何因仇敵的欺壓時常哀痛呢。
I will say unto God my rock, Why hast thou forgotten me? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

42:10    我的仇敵辱罵我，好像打碎我的骨頭，不住的對我說，你的神在那裡呢。
As with a sword in my bones, mine enemies reproach me; while they say daily unto me, Where is thy God?

42:11    我的心哪，你為何憂悶，為何在我裡面煩躁。應當仰望神。因我還要稱讚他。他是我臉上的光榮，（原文作幫助），是我的神。
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope thou in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 43 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


43:1    神阿，求你伸我的冤，向不虔誠的國，為我辨屈。求你救我脫離詭詐不義的人。
Judge me, O God, and plead my cause against an ungodly nation: O deliver me from the deceitful and unjust man.

43:2    因為你是賜我力量的神，為何丟棄我呢。我為何因仇敵的欺壓時常哀痛呢。
For thou art the God of my strength: why dost thou cast me off? why go I mourning because of the oppression of the enemy?

43:3    求你發出你的亮光和真實，好引導我，帶我到你的聖山，到你的居所。
O send out thy light and thy truth: let them lead me; let them bring me unto thy holy hill, and to thy tabernacles.

43:4    我就走到神的祭壇，到我最喜樂的神那裡。神阿，我的神，我要彈琴稱讚你。
Then will I go unto the altar of God, unto God my exceeding joy: yea, upon the harp will I praise thee, O God my God.

43:5    我的心哪，你為何憂悶，為何在我裡面煩躁。因當仰望神。因我還要稱讚他。他是我臉上的光榮，（原文作幫助）是我的神。
Why art thou cast down, O my soul? and why art thou disquieted within me? hope in God: for I shall yet praise him, who is the health of my countenance, and my God.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 44 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


44:1    （可拉後裔的訓誨詩，交與伶長）神阿，你在古時，我們列祖的日子，所行的事，我們親耳聽見了，我們的列祖，也給我們述說過。
We have heard with our ears, O God, our fathers have told us, what work thou didst in their days, in the times of old.

44:2    你曾用手趕出外邦人，卻栽培了我們列祖。你苦待列邦，卻叫我們列祖發達。
How thou didst drive out the heathen with thy hand, and plantedst them; how thou didst afflict the people, and cast them out.

44:3    因為他們不是靠自己的刀劍得土地，也不是靠自己的膀臂得勝。乃是靠你的右手，你的膀臂，和你臉上的亮光，因為你喜悅他們。
For they got not the land in possession by their own sword, neither did their own arm save them: but thy right hand, and thine arm, and the light of thy countenance, because thou hadst a favour unto them.

44:4    神阿，你是我的王，求你出令，使雅各得勝。
Thou art my King, O God: command deliverances for Jacob.

44:5    我們靠你要推倒我們的敵人。靠你的名要踐踏那起來攻擊我們的人。
Through thee will we push down our enemies: through thy name will we tread them under that rise up against us.

44:6    因為我必不靠我的弓，我的刀也不能使我得勝。
For I will not trust in my bow, neither shall my sword save me.

44:7    惟你救了我們脫離敵人，使恨我們的人羞愧。
But thou hast saved us from our enemies, and hast put them to shame that hated us.

44:8    我們終日因神誇耀，還要永遠稱謝你的名。（細拉）
In God we boast all the day long, and praise thy name for ever. Selah.

44:9    但如今你丟棄了我們，使我們受辱，不和我們的軍兵同去。
But thou hast cast off, and put us to shame; and goest not forth with our armies.

44:10    你使我們向敵人轉身退後。那恨我們的人任意搶奪。
Thou makest us to turn back from the enemy: and they which hate us spoil for themselves.

44:11    你使我們當作快要被吃的羊，把我們分散在列邦中。
Thou hast given us like sheep appointed for meat; and hast scattered us among the heathen.

44:12    你賣了你的子民，也不賺利。所得的價值，並不加添你的資財。
Thou sellest thy people for nought, and dost not increase thy wealth by their price.

44:13    你使我們受鄰國的羞辱，被四圍的人嗤笑譏刺。
Thou makest us a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and a derision to them that are round about us.

44:14    你使我們在列邦中作了笑談，使眾民向我們搖頭。
Thou makest us a byword among the heathen, a shaking of the head among the people.

44:15    我的凌辱，終日在我面前。我臉上的羞愧，將我遮蔽。
My confusion is continually before me, and the shame of my face hath covered me,

44:16    都因那辱罵毀謗人的聲音，又因仇敵和報仇人的緣故。
For the voice of him that reproacheth and blasphemeth; by reason of the enemy and avenger.

44:17    這都臨到我們身上。我們卻沒有忘記你。也沒有違揹你的約。
All this is come upon us; yet have we not forgotten thee, neither have we dealt falsely in thy covenant.

44:18    我們的心沒有退後，我們的腳也沒有偏離你的路。
Our heart is not turned back, neither have our steps declined from thy way;

44:19    你在野狗之處壓傷我們，用死蔭遮蔽我們。
Though thou hast sore broken us in the place of dragons, and covered us with the shadow of death.

44:20    倘若我們忘了神的名，或向別神舉手，
If we have forgotten the name of our God, or stretched out our hands to a strange god;

44:21    神豈不鑑察這事嗎。因為他曉得人心裡的隱祕。
Shall not God search this out? for he knoweth the secrets of the heart.

44:22    我們為你的緣故終日被殺，人看我們如將宰的羊。
Yea, for thy sake are we killed all the day long; we are counted as sheep for the slaughter.

44:23    主阿，求你睡醒，為何盡睡呢。求你興起，不要永遠丟棄我們。
Awake, why sleepest thou, O Lord? arise, cast us not off for ever.

44:24    你為何掩面，不顧我們所遭的苦難，和所受的欺壓。
Wherefore hidest thou thy face, and forgettest our affliction and our oppression?

44:25    我們的性命伏於塵土。我們的肚腹緊貼地面。
For our soul is bowed down to the dust: our belly cleaveth unto the earth.

44:26    求你起來幫助我們，憑你的慈愛救贖我們。
Arise for our help, and redeem us for thy mercies' sake.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 45 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


45:1    （可拉後裔的訓誨詩，又是愛慕歌，交與伶長，呼叫百合花）。我心裡湧出美辭。我論到我為王作的事。我的舌頭是快手筆。
My heart is inditing a good matter: I speak of the things which I have made touching the king: my tongue is the pen of a ready writer.

45:2    你比世人更美，在你嘴裡滿有恩惠。所以神賜福給你，直到永遠。
Thou art fairer than the children of men: grace is poured into thy lips: therefore God hath blessed thee for ever.

45:3    大能者阿，願你腰間佩刀，大有榮耀和威嚴。
Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O most mighty, with thy glory and thy majesty.

45:4    為真理，謙卑，公義，赫然坐車前往，無不得勝。你的右手必顯明可畏的事。
And in thy majesty ride prosperously because of truth and meekness and righteousness; and thy right hand shall teach thee terrible things.

45:5    你的箭鋒快，射中王敵之心。萬民仆倒在你以下。
Thine arrows are sharp in the heart of the king's enemies; whereby the people fall under thee.

45:6    神阿，你的寶座是永永遠遠的，你的國權是正直的。
Thy throne, O God, is for ever and ever: the sceptre of thy kingdom is a right sceptre.

45:7    你喜愛公義，恨惡罪惡。所以神，就是你的神，用喜樂油膏你，勝過膏你的同伴。
Thou lovest righteousness, and hatest wickedness: therefore God, thy God, hath anointed thee with the oil of gladness above thy fellows.

45:8    你的衣服，都有沒藥沉香肉桂的香氣。象牙宮中有絲絃樂器的聲音，使你歡喜。
All thy garments smell of myrrh, and aloes, and cassia, out of the ivory palaces, whereby they have made thee glad.

45:9    有君王的女兒，在你尊貴婦女之中。王后佩戴俄斐金飾，站在你右邊。
Kings' daughters were among thy honourable women: upon thy right hand did stand the queen in gold of Ophir.

45:10    女子阿，你要聽，要想，要側耳而聽。不要記念你的民，和你的父家。
Hearken, O daughter, and consider, and incline thine ear; forget also thine own people, and thy father's house;

45:11    王就羨慕你的美貌。因為他是你的主。你當敬拜他。
So shall the king greatly desire thy beauty: for he is thy Lord; and worship thou him.

45:12    推羅的民，（民原文作女子），必來送禮。民中富足人，也必向你求恩。
And the daughter of Tyre shall be there with a gift; even the rich among the people shall intreat thy favour.

45:13    王女在宮裡，極其榮華。他的衣服是用金線繡的。
The king's daughter is all glorious within: her clothing is of wrought gold.

45:14    他要穿錦繡的衣服，被引到王前。隨從他的陪伴童女，也要被帶到你面前。
She shall be brought unto the king in raiment of needlework: the virgins her companions that follow her shall be brought unto thee.

45:15    他們要歡喜快樂被引導。他們要進入王宮。
With gladness and rejoicing shall they be brought: they shall enter into the king's palace.

45:16    你的子孫要接續你的列祖。你要立他們在全地作王。
Instead of thy fathers shall be thy children, whom thou mayest make princes in all the earth.



45:17    我必叫你的名被萬代記念。所以萬民要永永遠遠稱謝你。
I will make thy name to be remembered in all generations: therefore shall the people praise thee for ever and ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 46 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


46:1    （可拉後裔的詩歌，交給伶長，呼叫女音）神是我們的避難所，是我們的力量，是我們在患難中隨時的幫助。
God is our refuge and strength, a very present help in trouble.

46:2    所以地雖改變，山雖搖動到海心，
Therefore will not we fear, though the earth be removed, and though the mountains be carried into the midst of the sea;

46:3    其中水雖？？訇翻騰，山雖因海漲而戰抖，我們也不害怕。（細拉）。
Though the waters thereof roar and be troubled, though the mountains shake with the swelling thereof. Selah.

46:4    有一道河。這河的分汊，使神的城歡喜。這城就是至高者居住的聖所。
There is a river, the streams whereof shall make glad the city of God, the holy place of the tabernacles of the most High.

46:5    神在其中。城必不動搖。到天一亮，神必幫助這城。
God is in the midst of her; she shall not be moved: God shall help her, and that right early.

46:6    外邦喧囔，列國動搖。神發聲，地便熔化。
The heathen raged, the kingdoms were moved: he uttered his voice, the earth melted.

46:7    萬君之耶和華與我們同在。雅各的神是我們的避難所。（細拉）。
The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.

46:8    你們來看耶和華的作為，看他使地怎樣荒涼。
Come, behold the works of the LORD, what desolations he hath made in the earth.

46:9    他止息刀兵，直到地極。他折弓斷槍，把戰車焚燒在火中。
He maketh wars to cease unto the end of the earth; he breaketh the bow, and cutteth the spear in sunder; he burneth the chariot in the fire.

46:10    你們要休息，要知道我是神。我必在外邦中被尊崇，在遍地上也被尊崇。
Be still, and know that I am God: I will be exalted among the heathen, I will be exalted in the earth.

46:11    萬君之耶和華與我們同在。雅各的神，是我們的避難所。
The LORD of hosts is with us; the God of Jacob is our refuge. Selah.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 47 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


47:1    （可拉後裔的詩，交與伶長）萬民哪，你們都要拍掌。要用誇勝的聲音向神呼喊。
O clap your hands, all ye people; shout unto God with the voice of triumph.

47:2    因為耶和華至高者是可畏的。他是治理全地的大君王。
For the LORD most high is terrible; he is a great King over all the earth.

47:3    他叫萬民服在我們以下，又叫列邦服在我們腳下。
He shall subdue the people under us, and the nations under our feet.

47:4    他為我們選擇產業，就是他所愛之雅各的榮耀。（細拉）。
He shall choose our inheritance for us, the excellency of Jacob whom he loved. Selah.

47:5    神上升，有喊聲相送。耶和華上升，有角聲相送。
God is gone up with a shout, the LORD with the sound of a trumpet.

47:6    你們要向神歌頌，歌頌，向我們王歌頌，歌頌。
Sing praises to God, sing praises: sing praises unto our King, sing praises.

47:7    因為神是全地的王。你們要用悟性歌頌。
For God is the King of all the earth: sing ye praises with understanding.

47:8    神作王治理萬國。神坐在他的聖寶座上。
God reigneth over the heathen: God sitteth upon the throne of his holiness.

47:9    列邦的君王聚集，要作亞伯拉罕之神的民。因為世界的盾牌，是屬神的。他為至高。
The princes of the people are gathered together, even the people of the God of Abraham: for the shields of the earth belong unto God: he is greatly exalted.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 48 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


48:1    （可拉後裔的詩歌）耶和華本為大，在我們神的城中，在他的聖山上，該受大讚美。
Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised in the city of our God, in the mountain of his holiness.

48:2    錫安山，大君王的城，在北面居高華美，為全地所喜悅。
Beautiful for situation, the joy of the whole earth, is mount Zion, on the sides of the north, the city of the great King.

48:3    神在其宮中自顯為避難所。
God is known in her palaces for a refuge.

48:4    看哪，眾王會合，一同經過。
For, lo, the kings were assembled, they passed by together.

48:5    他們見了這城，就驚奇喪膽，急忙逃跑。
They saw it, and so they marvelled; they were troubled, and hasted away.

48:6    他們在那裡被戰兢疼痛抓住，好像產難的婦人一樣。
Fear took hold upon them there, and pain, as of a woman in travail.

48:7    神阿，你用東風打破他施的船隻。
Thou breakest the ships of Tarshish with an east wind.

48:8    我們在萬君之耶和華的城中，就是我們神的城中，所看見的，正如我們所聽見的。神必堅立這城，直到永遠。（細拉）。
As we have heard, so have we seen in the city of the LORD of hosts, in the city of our God: God will establish it for ever. Selah.

48:9    神阿，我們在你的殿中，想念你的慈愛。
We have thought of thy lovingkindness, O God, in the midst of thy temple.

48:10    神阿，你受的讚美，正與你的名相稱，直到地極。你的右手滿了公義。
According to thy name, O God, so is thy praise unto the ends of the earth: thy right hand is full of righteousness.

48:11    因你的判斷，錫安山應當歡喜，猶大的城邑，應當快樂。（城邑原文作女子）
Let mount Zion rejoice, let the daughters of Judah be glad, because of thy judgments.

48:12    你們當週遊錫安，四圍旋繞，數點城樓，
Walk about Zion, and go round about her: tell the towers thereof.

48:13    細看他的外郭，察看他的宮殿，為要傳說到後代。
Mark ye well her bulwarks, consider her palaces; that ye may tell it to the generation following.

48:14    因為這神永永遠遠為我們的神。他必作我們引路的，直到死時。
For this God is our God for ever and ever: he will be our guide even unto death.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 49 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


49:1    （可拉後裔的詩，交與伶長）萬民哪，你們都當聽這話，世上一切的居民，
Hear this, all ye people; give ear, all ye inhabitants of the world:

49:2    無論上流下流，富足貧窮，都當留心聽。
Both low and high, rich and poor, together.

49:3    我口要說智慧的言語。我必要想通達的道理。
My mouth shall speak of wisdom; and the meditation of my heart shall be of understanding.

49:4    我要側耳聽比喻，用琴解謎語。
I will incline mine ear to a parable: I will open my dark saying upon the harp.

49:5    在患難的日子，奸惡隨我腳跟，四面環繞我，我何必懼怕。
Wherefore should I fear in the days of evil, when the iniquity of my heels shall compass me about?

49:6    那些倚仗財貨自誇錢財多的人，
They that trust in their wealth, and boast themselves in the multitude of their riches;

49:7    一個也無法贖自己的弟兄，也不能替他將贖價給神，
None of them can by any means redeem his brother, nor give to God a ransom for him:

49:8    叫他長遠活著，不見朽壞。
(For the redemption of their soul is precious, and it ceaseth for ever:)



49:9    因為贖他生命的價值極貴，只可永遠吧休。
That he should still live for ever, and not see corruption.

49:10    他必見智慧人死。又見愚頑人和畜類人，一同滅亡，將他們的財貨留給別人。
For he seeth that wise men die, likewise the fool and the brutish person perish, and leave their wealth to others.

49:11    他們心裡思想，他們的家室必永存，住宅必留到萬代。他們以自己的名，稱自己的地。
Their inward thought is, that their houses shall continue for ever, and their dwelling places to all generations; they call their lands after their own names.

49:12    但人居尊貴中不能長久，如同死亡的畜類一樣。
Nevertheless man being in honour abideth not: he is like the beasts that perish.

49:13    他們行的這道，本為自己的愚昧。但他們以後的人，還佩服他們的話語。（細拉）。
This their way is their folly: yet their posterity approve their sayings. Selah.

49:14    他們如同羊群派定下陰間。死亡必作他們的牧者。到了早晨，正直人必管轄他們。他們的美容，必被陰間所滅，以致無處可存。
Like sheep they are laid in the grave; death shall feed on them; and the upright shall have dominion over them in the morning; and their beauty shall consume in the grave from their dwelling.

49:15    只是神必救贖我的靈魂，脫離陰間的權柄，因他必收納我。（細拉）
But God will redeem my soul from the power of the grave: for he shall receive me. Selah.

49:16    見人發財家室增榮的時候，你不要懼怕。
Be not thou afraid when one is made rich, when the glory of his house is increased;

49:17    因為他死的時候，什麼也不能帶去。他的榮耀不能隨他下去。
For when he dieth he shall carry nothing away: his glory shall not descend after him.

49:18    他活著的時候，雖然自誇為有福，（你若利己，人必誇獎你）。
Though while he lived he blessed his soul: and men will praise thee, when thou doest well to thyself.

49:19    他仍必歸到他歷代的祖宗那裡，永不見光。
He shall go to the generation of his fathers; they shall never see light.

49:20    人在尊貴中，而不醒悟，就如死亡的畜類一樣。
Man that is in honour, and understandeth not, is like the beasts that perish.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 50 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


50:1    （亞薩的詩）大能者神耶和華，已經發言招呼天下，從日出之地到日落之處。
The mighty God, even the LORD, hath spoken, and called the earth from the rising of the sun unto the going down thereof.

50:2    從全美的錫安中，神已經發光了。
Out of Zion, the perfection of beauty, God hath shined.

50:3    我們的神要來，決不閉口。有烈火在他們面前吞滅，有暴風在他四圍大刮。
Our God shall come, and shall not keep silence: a fire shall devour before him, and it shall be very tempestuous round about him.

50:4    他招呼上天下地，為要審判他的民，
He shall call to the heavens from above, and to the earth, that he may judge his people.

50:5    說，招聚我的聖民到我這裡來，就是那些用祭物與我立約的人。
Gather my saints together unto me; those that have made a covenant with me by sacrifice.

50:6    諸天必表明他的公義。因為神是施行審判的。（細拉）
And the heavens shall declare his righteousness: for God is judge himself. Selah.

50:7    我的民哪，你們當聽我的話。以色列阿，我要勸戒你。我是神，是你的神。
Hear, O my people, and I will speak; O Israel, and I will testify against thee: I am God, even thy God.

50:8    我並不因你的祭物責備你。你的燔祭常在我面前。
I will not reprove thee for thy sacrifices or thy burnt offerings, to have been continually before me.

50:9    我不從你家中取公牛，也不從你圈內取山羊。
I will take no bullock out of thy house, nor he goats out of thy folds.

50:10    因為樹林中的百獸是我的，千山的牲畜也是我的。
For every beast of the forest is mine, and the cattle upon a thousand hills.

50:11    山中的飛鳥，我都知道。野地的走獸，也都屬我。
I know all the fowls of the mountains: and the wild beasts of the field are mine.

50:12    我若是飢餓，我不用告訴你。因為世界，和其中所充滿的，都是我的。
If I were hungry, I would not tell thee: for the world is mine, and the fulness thereof.

50:13    我豈吃公牛的肉呢。我豈喝山羊的血呢。
Will I eat the flesh of bulls, or drink the blood of goats?

50:14    你們要以感謝為祭獻與神。又要向至高者還你的願。
Offer unto God thanksgiving; and pay thy vows unto the most High:

50:15    並要在患難之日求告我，我必搭救你。你也要榮耀我。
And call upon me in the day of trouble: I will deliver thee, and thou shalt glorify me.

50:16    但神對惡人說，你怎敢傳說我的律例，口中題到我的約呢。
But unto the wicked God saith, What hast thou to do to declare my statutes, or that thou shouldest take my covenant in thy mouth?

50:17    其實你恨惡管教，將我的言語丟在背後。
Seeing thou hatest instruction, and casteth my words behind thee.

50:18    你見了盜賊，就樂意與他同夥，又與行姦淫的人，一同有分。
When thou sawest a thief, then thou consentedst with him, and hast been partaker with adulterers.

50:19    你口任說惡言，你舌編造詭詐。
Thou givest thy mouth to evil, and thy tongue frameth deceit.

50:20    你坐著毀謗你的兄弟，讒毀你親母的兒子。
Thou sittest and speakest against thy brother; thou slanderest thine own mother's son.

50:21    你行了這些事，我還閉口不言。你想我恰和你一樣。其實我要責備你，將這些事擺在你眼前。
These things hast thou done, and I kept silence; thou thoughtest that I was altogether such an one as thyself: but I will reprove thee, and set them in order before thine eyes.

50:22    你們忘記神的，要思想這事，免得我把你們撕碎，無人搭救。
Now consider this, ye that forget God, lest I tear you in pieces, and there be none to deliver.

50:23    凡以剮謝獻上為祭的，便是榮耀我。那按正路而行的，我便使他得著我的救恩。
Whoso offereth praise glorifieth me: and to him that ordereth his conversation aright will I shew the salvation of God.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 51 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


51:1    （大衛與拔示巴同室以候，先知拿單來見他。他作這詩，交與伶長）神阿，求你按你的慈愛憐恤我，按你豐盛的慈悲塗抹我的過犯。
Have mercy upon me, O God, according to thy lovingkindness: according unto the multitude of thy tender mercies blot out my transgressions.

51:2    求你將我的罪孽洗除淨盡並潔除我的罪。
Wash me throughly from mine iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin.

51:3    因為我知道我的過犯我的罪常在我面前
For I acknowledge my transgressions: and my sin is ever before me.

51:4    我向你犯罪，惟獨得罪了你，在你眼前行了這惡，以致你責備我的時候，顯為公義。判斷我的時候，顯為清正。
Against thee, thee only, have I sinned, and done this evil in thy sight: that thou mightest be justified when thou speakest, and be clear when thou judgest.

51:5    我是在罪孽裡生的。在我母胎的時候，就有了罪。
Behold, I was shapen in iniquity; and in sin did my mother conceive me.

51:6    你所洗愛的，是內裡誠實。你在我隱密處，必使我得智慧。
Behold, thou desirest truth in the inward parts: and in the hidden part thou shalt make me to know wisdom.

51:7    求你用牛膝草潔淨我，我就乾淨，求你洗滌我，我就比雪更白。
Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean: wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow.

51:8    求你使我得聽歡喜快樂的聲音，使你所壓傷的骨頭，可以踴躍。
Make me to hear joy and gladness; that the bones which thou hast broken may rejoice.

51:9    求你掩面不看我的罪，塗抹我一切的罪孽。
Hide thy face from my sins, and blot out all mine iniquities.

51:10    神阿，求你為我造清潔的心，使我裡面重新有正直的靈。（正直或作堅定）。
Create in me a clean heart, O God; and renew a right spirit within me.

51:11    不要丟棄我，使我離開你的面。不要從我收回你的聖靈。
Cast me not away from thy presence; and take not thy holy spirit from me.

51:12    求你使我仍得救恩之樂，賜我樂意的靈扶持我。
Restore unto me the joy of thy salvation; and uphold me with thy free spirit.

51:13    我就把你的道指教有過犯的人。罪人必歸順你。
Then will I teach transgressors thy ways; and sinners shall be converted unto thee.

51:14    神阿，你是拯救我的神。求你救我脫離流人血的罪。我的舌頭就高聲歌唱你的公義。
Deliver me from bloodguiltiness, O God, thou God of my salvation: and my tongue shall sing aloud of thy righteousness.

51:15    主阿，求你使我的嘴脣張開，我的口便傳揚讚美你的話。
O Lord, open thou my lips; and my mouth shall shew forth thy praise.

51:16    你本不喜愛祭物。若喜愛，我就獻上。燔祭你也不喜悅。
For thou desirest not sacrifice; else would I give it: thou delightest not in burnt offering.

51:17    神所要的祭，就是憂傷的靈。神阿，憂傷痛悔的心，你必不輕看。
The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit: a broken and a contrite heart, O God, thou wilt not despise.

51:18    求你隨你的美意善待錫安，建造耶路撒冷的城牆。
Do good in thy good pleasure unto Zion: build thou the walls of Jerusalem.

51:19    那時，你必喜愛公義的祭，和燔祭並全牲的燔祭。那時，人必將公牛獻在你壇上。
Then shalt thou be pleased with the sacrifices of righteousness, with burnt offering and whole burnt offering: then shall they offer bullocks upon thine altar.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 52 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


52:1    （以東人多益來告訴掃羅說，大衛到了亞希米勒家。那時，大衛作這訓誨詩交與伶長）勇士們阿，你為何以作惡自誇。神的慈愛是常存的。
Why boastest thou thyself in mischief, O mighty man? the goodness of God endureth continually.

52:2    你的舌頭邪惡詭詐，好像剃頭刀，快利傷人。
Thy tongue deviseth mischiefs; like a sharp razor, working deceitfully.

52:3    你愛惡勝似愛善，又愛說謊，不愛說公義。（細拉）
Thou lovest evil more than good; and lying rather than to speak righteousness. Selah.

52:4    詭詐的舌頭阿，你愛說一切毀滅的話。
Thou lovest all devouring words, O thou deceitful tongue.

52:5    神也要毀滅你，直到永遠。他要把你拿去，從你的帳棚中抽出，從活人之地將你拔出。（細拉）
God shall likewise destroy thee for ever, he shall take thee away, and pluck thee out of thy dwelling place, and root thee out of the land of the living. Selah.

52:6    義人要看見而懼怕，並要笑他。
The righteous also shall see, and fear, and shall laugh at him:

52:7    說，看哪，這就是那不以神為他力量的人。只倚仗他豐富的財物，在邪惡上堅立自己。
Lo, this is the man that made not God his strength; but trusted in the abundance of his riches, and strengthened himself in his wickedness.

52:8    至於我，就像神殿中的青橄欖樹。我永永遠遠倚靠神的慈愛。
But I am like a green olive tree in the house of God: I trust in the mercy of God for ever and ever.

52:9    我要稱謝你，直到永遠，因為你行了這事。我也要在你聖民面前仰望你的名。這名本為美好。
I will praise thee for ever, because thou hast done it: and I will wait on thy name; for it is good before thy saints.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 53 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


53:1    （大衛的訓誨詩，交與伶長，呼叫麻哈拉）。愚頑的人心裡說，沒有神。他們都是邪惡，行了可憎惡的罪孽。沒有一個人行善。
The fool hath said in his heart, There is no God. Corrupt are they, and have done abominable iniquity: there is none that doeth good.

53:2    神從天上垂看世人，要看有明白的沒有，有尋求他的沒有。
God looked down from heaven upon the children of men, to see if there were any that did understand, that did seek God.

53:3    他們各人都退後，一同變為汙穢。並沒有行善的。連一個也沒有。
Every one of them is gone back: they are altogether become filthy; there is none that doeth good, no, not one.

53:4    作孽的沒有知識嗎。他們吞吃我的百姓如同吃飯一樣。並不求靠神。
Have the workers of iniquity no knowledge? who eat up my people as they eat bread: they have not called upon God.

53:5    他們在無可懼怕之處，就大大害怕。因為神把那安營攻擊你之人的骨頭散開了。你使他們蒙羞，因為神棄絕了他們。
There were they in great fear, where no fear was: for God hath scattered the bones of him that encampeth against thee: thou hast put them to shame, because God hath despised them.

53:6    但願以色列的救恩從錫安而出。神救回他被擄的子民，那時，雅各要快樂，以色列要歡喜。
Oh that the salvation of Israel were come out of Zion! When God bringeth back the captivity of his people, Jacob shall rejoice, and Israel shall be glad.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 54 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


54:1    （西弗人來對掃羅說，大衛豈不是在我們那裡藏身嗎。那時大衛作這訓誨詩，交與伶長呼叫絲的樂器）。神阿，求你以你的名救我，憑你的大能為我伸冤。
Save me, O God, by thy name, and judge me by thy strength.

54:2    神阿，求你聽我的禱告，留心聽我口中的言語。
Hear my prayer, O God; give ear to the words of my mouth.

54:3    因為外人起來攻擊我，強暴人尋索我的命。他們眼中沒有神。（細拉）
For strangers are risen up against me, and oppressors seek after my soul: they have not set God before them. Selah.

54:4    神是幫助我的，是扶持我命的。
Behold, God is mine helper: the Lord is with them that uphold my soul.

54:5    他要報應我仇敵所行的惡。求你憑你的誠實滅絕他們。
He shall reward evil unto mine enemies: cut them off in thy truth.

54:6    我要把甘心祭獻給你。耶和華阿，我要稱讚你的名。這名本為美好。
I will freely sacrifice unto thee: I will praise thy name, O LORD; for it is good.

54:7    他從一切的急難中，把我救出來。我的眼睛也看見了我仇敵遭報。
For he hath delivered me out of all trouble: and mine eye hath seen his desire upon mine enemies.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 55 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


55:1    （大衛的訓誨詩，交與伶長，用絲絃的樂器）神阿，求你留心聽我的禱告。不要隱藏不聽我的懇求。
Give ear to my prayer, O God; and hide not thyself from my supplication.

55:2    求你側耳聽我，應允我。我哀嘆不安，發聲唉哼。
Attend unto me, and hear me: I mourn in my complaint, and make a noise;

55:3    都因仇敵的聲音，惡人的欺壓。因為他們將罪孽加在我身上，發怒氣逼迫我。
Because of the voice of the enemy, because of the oppression of the wicked: for they cast iniquity upon me, and in wrath they hate me.

55:4    我心在我裡面甚是疼痛。死的驚惶臨到我身。
My heart is sore pained within me: and the terrors of death are fallen upon me.

55:5    恐懼戰兢歸到我身，驚恐漫過了我。
Fearfulness and trembling are come upon me, and horror hath overwhelmed me.

55:6    我說，但願我有翅膀像鴿子，我就飛去得享安息。
And I said, Oh that I had wings like a dove! for then would I fly away, and be at rest.

55:7    我必遠遊宿在曠野。（細拉）
Lo, then would I wander far off, and remain in the wilderness. Selah.

55:8    我必速速逃到避所，脫離狂風暴雨。
I would hasten my escape from the windy storm and tempest.

55:9    主阿，求你吞滅他們，變亂他們的舌頭。因為我在城中見了強暴爭競的事。
Destroy, O Lord, and divide their tongues: for I have seen violence and strife in the city.

55:10    他們在城牆上晝夜繞行。在城內也有罪孽和姦惡。
Day and night they go about it upon the walls thereof: mischief also and sorrow are in the midst of it.

55:11    邪惡在其中，欺壓和詭詐不離街市。
Wickedness is in the midst thereof: deceit and guile depart not from her streets.

55:12    原來不是仇敵辱罵我。若是仇敵，還可忍耐。也不是恨我的人向我狂大。若是恨我的人，就必躲避他。
For it was not an enemy that reproached me; then I could have borne it: neither was it he that hated me that did magnify himself against me; then I would have hid myself from him:

55:13    不料是你，你原與我平等，是我的同伴，是我知己的朋友。
But it was thou, a man mine equal, my guide, and mine acquaintance.

55:14    我們素常彼此談論，以為甘甜。我們與群眾在神的殿中同行。
We took sweet counsel together, and walked unto the house of God in company.

55:15    願死亡忽然臨到他們。願他們活活的下入陰間。因為他們的住處，他們的心中，都是邪惡。
Let death seize upon them, and let them go down quick into hell: for wickedness is in their dwellings, and among them.

55:16    至於我，我要求告神。耶和華必拯救我。
As for me, I will call upon God; and the LORD shall save me.

55:17    我要晚上，早晨，晌午，哀聲悲嘆。他也必聽我的聲音。
Evening, and morning, and at noon, will I pray, and cry aloud: and he shall hear my voice.

55:18    他救贖我命脫離攻擊我的人，使我得享平安。因為與我相爭的人甚多。
He hath delivered my soul in peace from the battle that was against me: for there were many with me.

55:19    那沒有更變，不敬畏神的人，從太古常存的神，必聽見而苦待他。
God shall hear, and afflict them, even he that abideth of old. Selah. Because they have no changes, therefore they fear not God.

55:20    他背了約，伸手攻擊與他和好的人。
He hath put forth his hands against such as be at peace with him: he hath broken his covenant.

55:21    他的口如奶油光滑，他的心卻懷著爭戰。他的話比油柔和，其實是拔出來的刀。
The words of his mouth were smoother than butter, but war was in his heart: his words were softer than oil, yet were they drawn swords.

55:22    你要把你的重擔卸給耶和華，他必撫養你，他永不叫義人動搖。
Cast thy burden upon the LORD, and he shall sustain thee: he shall never suffer the righteous to be moved.

55:23    神阿，你必使惡人下入滅亡的坑。流人血行詭詐的人，必活不到半世，但我要倚靠你。
But thou, O God, shalt bring them down into the pit of destruction: bloody and deceitful men shall not live out half their days; but I will trust in thee.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 56 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


56:1    （非利士人在迦特拿住大衛。那時他作這金詩，交與伶長，呼叫遠方無聲鴿）神阿，求你憐憫我，因為人要把我吞了，終日攻擊欺壓我。
Be merciful unto me, O God: for man would swallow me up; he fighting daily oppresseth me.

56:2    我的仇敵終日要把我吞了。因逞驕傲攻擊我的人甚多。
Mine enemies would daily swallow me up: for they be many that fight against me, O thou most High.

56:3    我懼怕的時候要倚靠你。
What time I am afraid, I will trust in thee.

56:4    我倚靠神。我要讚美他的話。我倚靠神，必不懼怕。血氣之輩能把我怎嗎樣呢。
In God I will praise his word, in God I have put my trust; I will not fear what flesh can do unto me.

56:5    他們終日顛倒我的話。他們一切的心思，都是要害我。
Every day they wrest my words: all their thoughts are against me for evil.

56:6    他們聚集，埋伏窺探我的腳蹤。等候要害我的命。
They gather themselves together, they hide themselves, they mark my steps, when they wait for my soul.

56:7    他們豈能因罪孽逃脫嗎。神阿，求你在怒中使眾民墮落。
Shall they escape by iniquity? in thine anger cast down the people, O God.

56:8    我幾次流離，你都記數。求你把我眼淚裝在你的皮袋裡。這不都記在你冊子上嗎。
Thou tellest my wanderings: put thou my tears into thy bottle: are they not in thy book?

56:9    我呼求的日子，我的仇敵都要轉身退後。神幫助我，這是我所知道的。
When I cry unto thee, then shall mine enemies turn back: this I know; for God is for me.

56:10    我倚靠神。我要讚美他的話。我倚靠耶和華。我要讚美他的話。
In God will I praise his word: in the LORD will I praise his word.

56:11    我倚靠神，必不懼怕。人能把我怎嗎樣呢。
In God have I put my trust: I will not be afraid what man can do unto me.

56:12    神阿，我向你所許的願在我身上。我要將感謝祭獻給你。
Thy vows are upon me, O God: I will render praises unto thee.

56:13    因為你救我的命脫離死亡。你豈不是救護我的腳不跌倒，使我在生命光中行在神面前嗎。
For thou hast delivered my soul from death: wilt not thou deliver my feet from falling, that I may walk before God in the light of the living?




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 57 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


57:1    （大衛逃避掃羅，藏在洞裡。那時他作這金詩，交與伶長，呼叫休要毀壞）神阿，求你憐憫我，憐憫我。因為我的心投靠你。我要投靠在你翅膀的蔭下，等到災害過去。
Be merciful unto me, O God, be merciful unto me: for my soul trusteth in thee: yea, in the shadow of thy wings will I make my refuge, until these calamities be overpast.

57:2    我要求告至高的神，就是為我成全諸事的神。
I will cry unto God most high; unto God that performeth all things for me.

57:3    那要吞我的人辱罵我的時候，神從天上必施恩救我。也必向我發出慈愛和誠實。
He shall send from heaven, and save me from the reproach of him that would swallow me up. Selah. God shall send forth his mercy and his truth.

57:4    我的性命在獅子中間。我躺臥在性如烈火的世人當中。他們的牙齒是槍，箭。他們的舌頭是快刀。
My soul is among lions: and I lie even among them that are set on fire, even the sons of men, whose teeth are spears and arrows, and their tongue a sharp sword.

57:5    神阿，願你崇高，過於諸天。願你的榮耀，高過全地。
Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens; let thy glory be above all the earth.

57:6    他們為我的腳設下網羅，壓制我的心。他們在我面前挖了坑，自己反掉在其中。（細拉）
They have prepared a net for my steps; my soul is bowed down: they have digged a pit before me, into the midst whereof they are fallen themselves. Selah.

57:7    神阿，我心堅定，我心堅定。我要唱詩，我要歌頌。
My heart is fixed, O God, my heart is fixed: I will sing and give praise.

57:8    我的靈阿，（原文作榮耀）你當醒起，琴瑟阿，你們當醒起。我自己要極早醒起。
Awake up, my glory; awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.

57:9    主阿，我要在萬民中稱謝你。在列邦中歌頌你。
I will praise thee, O Lord, among the people: I will sing unto thee among the nations.

57:10    因為你的慈愛，高及諸天。你的誠實，達到穹蒼。
For thy mercy is great unto the heavens, and thy truth unto the clouds.

57:11    神阿，願你崇高，過於諸天。願你的榮耀，高過全地。
Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: let thy glory be above all the earth.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 58 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


58:1    （大衛的金詩，交與伶長，呼叫休要毀壞）世人哪，你們默然不語，真合公義嗎。施行審判，豈按正直嗎。
Do ye indeed speak righteousness, O congregation? do ye judge uprightly, O ye sons of men?

58:2    不然，你們是心中作惡。你們在地上秤出你們手所行的強暴。
Yea, in heart ye work wickedness; ye weigh the violence of your hands in the earth.

58:3    惡人一出母胎，就與神疏遠。一離母腹，便走錯路，說謊話。
The wicked are estranged from the womb: they go astray as soon as they be born, speaking lies.



58:4    他們的毒氣，好像蛇的毒氣。他們好像塞耳的聾虺，
Their poison is like the poison of a serpent: they are like the deaf adder that stoppeth her ear;

58:5    不聽行法術的聲音。雖用極靈的咒語，也是不聽。
Which will not hearken to the voice of charmers, charming never so wisely.

58:6    神阿，求你敲碎他們口中的牙。耶和華阿，求你敲掉少壯獅子的大牙。
Break their teeth, O God, in their mouth: break out the great teeth of the young lions, O LORD.

58:7    願他們消滅如急流的水一般。他們瞅準射箭的時候，願箭頭彷佛砍斷。
Let them melt away as waters which run continually: when he bendeth his bow to shoot his arrows, let them be as cut in pieces.

58:8    願他們像蝸牛消化過去，又像婦人墜落未見天日的胎。
As a snail which melteth, let every one of them pass away: like the untimely birth of a woman, that they may not see the sun.

58:9    你們用荊棘燒火。鍋還未熱，他要用旋風把青的和燒著的一齊颳去。
Before your pots can feel the thorns, he shall take them away as with a whirlwind, both living, and in his wrath.

58:10    義人見仇敵遭報，就歡喜，要在惡人的血中洗腳。
The righteous shall rejoice when he seeth the vengeance: he shall wash his feet in the blood of the wicked.



58:11    因此，人必說，義人誠然有善報。在地上果有施行判斷的神。
So that a man shall say, Verily there is a reward for the righteous: verily he is a God that judgeth in the earth.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 59 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


59:1    （掃羅打發人窺探大衛的房屋，要殺他。那時大衛用這金詩，交與伶長，呼叫休要毀壞）我的神阿，求你救我脫離仇敵，把我安置在高處，得脫那些起來攻擊我的人。
Deliver me from mine enemies, O my God: defend me from them that rise up against me.

59:2    求你救我脫離作孽的人，和喜愛流人血的人。
Deliver me from the workers of iniquity, and save me from bloody men.

59:3    因為他們埋伏，要害我的命，有能力的人聚集來攻擊我。耶和華阿，這不是為我的過犯，也不是為我的罪愆。
For, lo, they lie in wait for my soul: the mighty are gathered against me; not for my transgression, nor for my sin, O LORD.

59:4    我雖然無過，他們豫備整齊，跑來攻擊我。求你興起鑑察幫助我。
They run and prepare themselves without my fault: awake to help me, and behold.

59:5    萬軍之神耶和華以色列的神阿，求你興起，懲治萬邦。不要憐憫行詭詐的惡人。（細拉）
Thou therefore, O LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel, awake to visit all the heathen: be not merciful to any wicked transgressors. Selah.

59:6    他們晚上轉回，叫號如狗，圍城繞行。
They return at evening: they make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.

59:7    他們口中噴吐惡言，嘴裡有刀，他們說有誰聽見。
Behold, they belch out with their mouth: swords are in their lips: for who, say they, doth hear?

59:8    但你耶和華必笑話他們。你要嗤笑萬邦。
But thou, O LORD, shalt laugh at them; thou shalt have all the heathen in derision.

59:9    我的力量阿，我必仰望你。因為神是我的高臺。
Because of his strength will I wait upon thee: for God is my defence.

59:10    我的神要以慈愛迎接我。神要叫我看見我仇敵遭報。
The God of my mercy shall prevent me: God shall let me see my desire upon mine enemies.

59:11    不要殺他們，恐怕我的民忘記。主阿，你是我們的盾牌。求你用你的能力使他們四散，且降為卑。
Slay them not, lest my people forget: scatter them by thy power; and bring them down, O Lord our shield.

59:12    因他們口中的罪，和嘴裡的言語，並咒罵虛謊的話，願他們在驕傲之中被纏住了。
For the sin of their mouth and the words of their lips let them even be taken in their pride: and for cursing and lying which they speak.

59:13    求你發怒，使他們消滅，以至歸於無有，叫他們知道神在雅各中間掌權，直到地極。（細拉）
Consume them in wrath, consume them, that they may not be: and let them know that God ruleth in Jacob unto the ends of the earth. Selah.

59:14    到了晚上，任憑他們轉回。任憑他們叫號如狗，圍城繞行。
And at evening let them return; and let them make a noise like a dog, and go round about the city.

59:15    他們必走來走去，尋梢食物。若不得飽，就終夜在外。
Let them wander up and down for meat, and grudge if they be not satisfied.

59:16    但我要歌頌你的力量，早晨要高唱你的慈愛。因為你作過我的高臺。在我急難的日子，作過我的避難所。
But I will sing of thy power; yea, I will sing aloud of thy mercy in the morning: for thou hast been my defence and refuge in the day of my trouble.

59:17    我的力量阿，我要歌頌你。因為神是我的高臺，是賜恩與我的神。
Unto thee, O my strength, will I sing: for God is my defence, and the God of my mercy.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 60 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


60:1    （大衛與兩河間的亞蘭並瑣巴的亞蘭爭戰的時候，約押轉回，在鹽谷攻擊以東，殺了一萬二千人。那時大衛作這金詩，叫人學習，交與伶長，呼叫為證的百合花）神阿，你丟棄了我們，使我們破壞；你向我們發怒，求你使我們復興。
O God, thou hast cast us off, thou hast scattered us, thou hast been displeased; O turn thyself to us again.

60:2    你使地震動，而且崩裂。求你將裂口醫好。因為地搖動。
Thou hast made the earth to tremble; thou hast broken it: heal the breaches thereof; for it shaketh.

60:3    你叫你的民遇見艱難。你叫我們喝那使人東倒西歪的酒。
Thou hast shewed thy people hard things: thou hast made us to drink the wine of astonishment.

60:4    你把旌旗賜給敬畏你的人，可以為真理楊起來。（細拉）
Thou hast given a banner to them that fear thee, that it may be displayed because of the truth. Selah.

60:5    求你應允我們，用右手拯救我們，好叫你所親愛的人得救。
That thy beloved may be delivered; save with thy right hand, and hear me.

60:6    神已經指著他的聖潔說，（說或作應許我）我要歡樂。我要分開示劍，丈量疏割谷。
God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.

60:7    基列是我的。瑪拿西也是我的。以法蓮是護衛我頭的。猶大是我的杖。
Gilead is mine, and Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;

60:8    摩押是我的沭浴盆。我要向以東拋鞋。非利士阿，你還能因我歡呼嗎。
Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe: Philistia, triumph thou because of me.

60:9    誰能領我進堅固城。誰能引我到以東地。
Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?

60:10    神阿，你不是丟棄了我們嗎。神阿，你不和我們的軍兵同去嗎。
Wilt not thou, O God, which hadst cast us off? and thou, O God, which didst not go out with our armies?

60:11    求你幫助我們攻擊敵人，因為人的幫助是枉然的。
Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

60:12    我們倚靠神，才得施展大能，因為踐踏我們敵人的就是他。
Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 61 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


61:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長，用絲絃的樂器）神阿，求你聽我的呼求，側耳聽我的禱告。
Hear my cry, O God; attend unto my prayer.

61:2    我心裡發昏的時候，我要從地極求告你。求你領我到那比我更高的磐石。
From the end of the earth will I cry unto thee, when my heart is overwhelmed: lead me to the rock that is higher than I.

61:3    因為你作過我的避難所，作過我的堅固臺，脫離仇敵。
For thou hast been a shelter for me, and a strong tower from the enemy.

61:4    我要永遠住在你的帳幕裡。我要投靠在你翅膀下的隱密處。（細拉）
I will abide in thy tabernacle for ever: I will trust in the covert of thy wings. Selah.

61:5    神阿，你原是聽了我所許的願。你將產業賜給敬畏你名的人。
For thou, O God, hast heard my vows: thou hast given me the heritage of those that fear thy name.

61:6    你要加添王的壽數。他的年歲必存到世世。
Thou wilt prolong the king's life: and his years as many generations.

61:7    他必永遠坐在神面前。願你豫備慈愛和誠實保佑他。
He shall abide before God for ever: O prepare mercy and truth, which may preserve him.

61:8    這樣，我要歌頌你的名直到永遠，好天天還我所許的願。
So will I sing praise unto thy name for ever, that I may daily perform my vows.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 62 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


62:1    （大衛的詩，照耶杜頓的作法，交與伶長）我的心默默無聲，專等候神。我的救恩是從他而來。
Truly my soul waiteth upon God: from him cometh my salvation.

62:2    惟獨他是我的磐石，我的拯救。他是我的高臺。我必不很動搖。
He only is my rock and my salvation; he is my defence; I shall not be greatly moved.

62:3    你們大家攻擊一人，把他毀壞。如同毀壞歪斜的牆，將倒的壁，要到幾時呢。
How long will ye imagine mischief against a man? ye shall be slain all of you: as a bowing wall shall ye be, and as a tottering fence.

62:4    他們彼此商議，專要從他的尊位上把他推下。他們喜愛謊話。口雖祝福，心卻咒詛。（細拉）
They only consult to cast him down from his excellency: they delight in lies: they bless with their mouth, but they curse inwardly. Selah.

62:5    我的心哪，你當默默無聲，專等候神。因為我的盼望是從他而來。
My soul, wait thou only upon God; for my expectation is from him.

62:6    惟獨他是我的磐石，我的拯救。他是我的高臺。我必不動搖。
He only is my rock and my salvation: he is my defence; I shall not be moved.

62:7    我的拯救，我的榮耀，都在乎神。我力量的磐石，我的避難所，都在乎神。
In God is my salvation and my glory: the rock of my strength, and my refuge, is in God.

62:8    你們眾民當時時倚靠他，在他面前傾心吐意。神是我們的避難所。（細拉）
Trust in him at all times; ye people, pour out your heart before him: God is a refuge for us. Selah.

62:9    下流人真是虛空，上流人也是虛假。放在天平裡就必浮起。他們一共比空氣還輕。
Surely men of low degree are vanity, and men of high degree are a lie: to be laid in the balance, they are altogether lighter than vanity.

62:10    不要仗勢欺人，也不要因搶奪而驕傲。若財寶加增，不要放在心上。
Trust not in oppression, and become not vain in robbery: if riches increase, set not your heart upon them.

62:11    神說了一次，兩次，我都聽見，就是能力都屬乎神。
God hath spoken once; twice have I heard this; that power belongeth unto God.

62:12    主阿，慈愛也是屬乎你。因為你照著各人所行的報應他。
Also unto thee, O Lord, belongeth mercy: for thou renderest to every man according to his work.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 63 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


63:1    （大衛在猶大曠野的時候，作了這詩）神阿，你是我的神，我要切切的尋求你。在乾旱疲乏無水之地，我渴想你，我的心切慕你。
O God, thou art my God; early will I seek thee: my soul thirsteth for thee, my flesh longeth for thee in a dry and thirsty land, where no water is;

63:2    我在聖所中曾如此瞻仰你，為要見你的能力，和你的榮耀。
To see thy power and thy glory, so as I have seen thee in the sanctuary.

63:3    因你的慈愛比生命更好，我的嘴脣要頌讚你。
Because thy lovingkindness is better than life, my lips shall praise thee.

63:4    我還活的時候，要這樣稱頌你。我要奉你的名舉手。
Thus will I bless thee while I live: I will lift up my hands in thy name.

63:5    我在床上記念你，在夜更的時候思想你，我的心就像飽足了骨髓肥油。
My soul shall be satisfied as with marrow and fatness; and my mouth shall praise thee with joyful lips:

63:6    我也要以歡樂的嘴脣讚美你。
When I remember thee upon my bed, and meditate on thee in the night watches.

63:7    因為你曾幫助我，我就在你翅膀的蔭下歡呼。
Because thou hast been my help, therefore in the shadow of thy wings will I rejoice.

63:8    我心緊緊的跟隨你。你的右手扶持我。
My soul followeth hard after thee: thy right hand upholdeth me.

63:9    但那些尋索要滅我命的人，必往地底下去。
But those that seek my soul, to destroy it, shall go into the lower parts of the earth.

63:10    他們必被刀劍所殺，被野狗所吃。
They shall fall by the sword: they shall be a portion for foxes.

63:11    但是王必因神歡喜。凡指著他發誓的，必要誇口。因為說謊之人的口，必被塞住。
But the king shall rejoice in God; every one that sweareth by him shall glory: but the mouth of them that speak lies shall be stopped.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 64 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


64:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長）神阿，我哀嘆的時候，求你聽我的聲音。求你保護我的性命，不受仇敵的驚恐。
Hear my voice, O God, in my prayer: preserve my life from fear of the enemy.



64:2    求你把我隱藏，使我脫離惡之人的暗謀，和作孽之人的擾亂。
Hide me from the secret counsel of the wicked; from the insurrection of the workers of iniquity:

64:3    他們磨舌如刀，發出苦毒的言語，好像比準了的箭。
Who whet their tongue like a sword, and bend their bows to shoot their arrows, even bitter words:

64:4    要在暗地射完全人。他們忽然射他，並不懼怕。
That they may shoot in secret at the perfect: suddenly do they shoot at him, and fear not.

64:5    他們彼此勉勵設下惡計。他們商量暗設網羅，說，誰能看見。
They encourage themselves in an evil matter: they commune of laying snares privily; they say, Who shall see them?

64:6    他們圖謀奸惡，說，我們是極力圖謀的。他們各人的意念心思是深的。
They search out iniquities; they accomplish a diligent search: both the inward thought of every one of them, and the heart, is deep.

64:7    但神要射他們。他們忽然被箭射傷。
But God shall shoot at them with an arrow; suddenly shall they be wounded.

64:8    他們必然絆跌，被自己的舌頭所害。凡看見他們的，必都搖頭。
So they shall make their own tongue to fall upon themselves: all that see them shall flee away.

64:9    眾人都要害怕，要傳楊神的工作，並且明白他的作為。
And all men shall fear, and shall declare the work of God; for they shall wisely consider of his doing.

64:10    義人必因耶和華歡喜，並要投靠他。凡心裡正直的人，都要誇口。
The righteous shall be glad in the LORD, and shall trust in him; and all the upright in heart shall glory.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 65 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


65:1    （大衛的詩歌，交與伶長）神阿，錫安的人都等候讚美你，所許的願，也要向你償還。
Praise waiteth for thee, O God, in Sion: and unto thee shall the vow be performed.

65:2    聽禱告的主阿，凡有血氣的，都要來就你。
O thou that hearest prayer, unto thee shall all flesh come.

65:3    罪孽勝了我。至於我們的過犯，你都要赦免。
Iniquities prevail against me: as for our transgressions, thou shalt purge them away.

65:4    你所揀選，使他親近你，住在你院中的，這人便為有福。我們必因你居所，你聖殿的美福知足了。
Blessed is the man whom thou choosest, and causest to approach unto thee, that he may dwell in thy courts: we shall be satisfied with the goodness of thy house, even of thy holy temple.

65:5    拯救我們的神阿，你必以威嚴秉公義應允我們。你本是一切地極，和海上遠處的人所倚靠的。
By terrible things in righteousness wilt thou answer us, O God of our salvation; who art the confidence of all the ends of the earth, and of them that are afar off upon the sea:

65:6    他既以大能束腰，就用力量安定諸山。
Which by his strength setteth fast the mountains; being girded with power:

65:7    使諸海的響聲，和其中波浪的響聲，並萬民的喧譁，都平靜了。
Which stilleth the noise of the seas, the noise of their waves, and the tumult of the people.

65:8    住在地極的人，因你的神蹟懼怕。你使日出日落之地都歡呼。
They also that dwell in the uttermost parts are afraid at thy tokens: thou makest the outgoings of the morning and evening to rejoice.

65:9    你眷顧地，降下透雨，使地大得肥美。神的河滿了水。你這樣澆灌了地，好為人豫備五穀。
Thou visitest the earth, and waterest it: thou greatly enrichest it with the river of God, which is full of water: thou preparest them corn, when thou hast so provided for it.

65:10    你澆透地的犁溝，潤平犁脊。降甘霖，使地軟和。其中髮長的，蒙你賜福。
Thou waterest the ridges thereof abundantly: thou settlest the furrows thereof: thou makest it soft with showers: thou blessest the springing thereof.

65:11    你以恩典為年歲的冠冕。你的路徑都滴下脂油。
Thou crownest the year with thy goodness; and thy paths drop fatness.

65:12    滴在曠野的草場上。小山以歡樂束腰。
They drop upon the pastures of the wilderness: and the little hills rejoice on every side.

65:13    草場以羊群為衣。谷中也長滿了五穀。這一切都歡呼歌唱。
The pastures are clothed with flocks; the valleys also are covered over with corn; they shout for joy, they also sing.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 66 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


66:1    （一篇詩歌，交與伶長）全地都當向神歡呼。
Make a joyful noise unto God, all ye lands:

66:2    歌頌他名的榮耀。用讚美的言語，將他的榮耀發明。
Sing forth the honour of his name: make his praise glorious.

66:3    當對神說，你的作為何等可畏。因你的大能仇敵要投降你。
Say unto God, How terrible art thou in thy works! through the greatness of thy power shall thine enemies submit themselves unto thee.

66:4    全地要敬拜你，歌頌你，要歌頌你的名。（細拉）
All the earth shall worship thee, and shall sing unto thee; they shall sing to thy name. Selah.

66:5    你們來看神所行的。他向世人所作的事，是可畏的。
Come and see the works of God: he is terrible in his doing toward the children of men.

66:6    他將海變成乾地。眾民步行過河。我們在那裡因他歡喜。
He turned the sea into dry land: they went through the flood on foot: there did we rejoice in him.

66:7    他用權能治理萬民，直到永遠。他的眼睛鑑察列邦。悖逆的人不可自高。（細拉）
He ruleth by his power for ever; his eyes behold the nations: let not the rebellious exalt themselves. Selah.



66:8    萬民哪，你們應當稱頌我們的神。使人得聽讚美他的聲音。
O bless our God, ye people, and make the voice of his praise to be heard:

66:9    他使我們的生命存活，也不叫我們的腳搖動。
Which holdeth our soul in life, and suffereth not our feet to be moved.

66:10    神阿，你曾試驗我們，熬煉我們，如熬煉銀子一樣。
For thou, O God, hast proved us: thou hast tried us, as silver is tried.

66:11    你使我們進入網羅，把重擔放在我們的身上。
Thou broughtest us into the net; thou laidst affliction upon our loins.

66:12    你使人坐車軋我們的頭。我們經過水火。你卻使我們到豐富之地。
Thou hast caused men to ride over our heads; we went through fire and through water: but thou broughtest us out into a wealthy place.

66:13    我要用燔祭進你的殿，向你還我的願。
I will go into thy house with burnt offerings: I will pay thee my vows,

66:14    就是在急難時我嘴脣所發的，口中所許的。
Which my lips have uttered, and my mouth hath spoken, when I was in trouble.

66:15    我要把肥牛作燔祭，將公羊的香祭獻給你。又把公牛和山羊獻上。（細拉）
I will offer unto thee burnt sacrifices of fatlings, with the incense of rams; I will offer bullocks with goats. Selah.

66:16    凡敬畏神的人，你們都來聽。我要述說他為我所行的事。
Come and hear, all ye that fear God, and I will declare what he hath done for my soul.

66:17    我曾用口求告他，我的舌頭，也稱他為高。
I cried unto him with my mouth, and he was extolled with my tongue.

66:18    我若心裡注重罪孽，主必不聽。
If I regard iniquity in my heart, the Lord will not hear me:

66:19    但神實在聽見了。他側耳聽了我禱告的聲音。
But verily God hath heard me; he hath attended to the voice of my prayer.

66:20    神是應當稱頌的。他並沒有推卻我的禱告，也沒有叫他的慈愛離開我。
Blessed be God, which hath not turned away my prayer, nor his mercy from me.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 67 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


67:1    （一篇詩歌，交與伶長。用絲絃的樂器）願神憐憫我們，賜福與我們，用臉光照我們。（細拉）
God be merciful unto us, and bless us; and cause his face to shine upon us; Selah.

67:2    好叫世界得知你的道路，萬國得知你的救恩。
That thy way may be known upon earth, thy saving health among all nations.

67:3    神阿，願列邦稱讚你，願萬民都稱讚你。
Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.

67:4    願萬國都快樂歡呼。因為你必按公正審判萬民，引導世上的萬國。（細拉）
O let the nations be glad and sing for joy: for thou shalt judge the people righteously, and govern the nations upon earth. Selah.

67:5    神阿，願列邦稱讚你。願萬民都稱讚你。
Let the people praise thee, O God; let all the people praise thee.

67:6    地已經出了土產。神，就是我們的神，要賜福與我們。
Then shall the earth yield her increase; and God, even our own God, shall bless us.

67:7    神要賜福與我們。地的四極都要敬畏他。
God shall bless us; and all the ends of the earth shall fear him.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 68 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


68:1    （大衛的詩歌，交與伶長）願神興起，使他的仇敵四散，叫那恨他的人，從他面前逃跑。
Let God arise, let his enemies be scattered: let them also that hate him flee before him.

68:2    他們被軀逐，如煙被風吹散。惡人見神之面而消滅，如臘被火熔化。
As smoke is driven away, so drive them away: as wax melteth before the fire, so let the wicked perish at the presence of God.

68:3    惟有義人必然歡喜，在神面前高興快樂。
But let the righteous be glad; let them rejoice before God: yea, let them exceedingly rejoice.

68:4    你們當向神唱詩，歌頌他的名。為那坐車行過曠野的，修平大路。他的名是耶和華。要在他面前歡樂。
Sing unto God, sing praises to his name: extol him that rideth upon the heavens by his name JAH, and rejoice before him.

68:5    神在他的聖所作孤兒的父，作寡婦的伸冤者。
A father of the fatherless, and a judge of the widows, is God in his holy habitation.

68:6    神叫孤獨的有家，使被囚的出來享福。惟有悖逆的住在乾燥之地。
God setteth the solitary in families: he bringeth out those which are bound with chains: but the rebellious dwell in a dry land.

68:7    神阿，你曾在你百姓前頭出來，在曠野行走。（細拉）
O God, when thou wentest forth before thy people, when thou didst march through the wilderness; Selah:

68:8    那時地見神的面而震動，天也落雨。西奈山見以色列神的面也震動。
The earth shook, the heavens also dropped at the presence of God: even Sinai itself was moved at the presence of God, the God of Israel.

68:9    神阿，你降下大雨。你產業以色列疲乏的時候，你使他堅固。
Thou, O God, didst send a plentiful rain, whereby thou didst confirm thine inheritance, when it was weary.

68:10    你的會眾住在其中。神阿，你的恩惠是為困苦人豫備的。
Thy congregation hath dwelt therein: thou, O God, hast prepared of thy goodness for the poor.

68:11    主發命令，傳好資訊的婦女成了大群。
The Lord gave the word: great was the company of those that published it.

68:12    統兵的君王逃跑了，逃跑了。在家等候的婦女，分受所奪的。
Kings of armies did flee apace: and she that tarried at home divided the spoil.

68:13    你們安臥在洋圈的時候，好像鴿子的翅膀鍍白銀，翎毛鍍黃金一般。
Though ye have lien among the pots, yet shall ye be as the wings of a dove covered with silver, and her feathers with yellow gold.

68:14    全能者在境內趕雜湊王的時候，勢如飄雪在撒們。
When the Almighty scattered kings in it, it was white as snow in Salmon.

68:15    巴刪山是神的山。巴珊山是多峰多嶺的山。
The hill of God is as the hill of Bashan; an high hill as the hill of Bashan.

68:16    你們多峰多嶺的山哪，為何斜看神所願居住的山。耶和華必住這山。直到永遠。
Why leap ye, ye high hills? this is the hill which God desireth to dwell in; yea, the LORD will dwell in it for ever.

68:17    神的車輦累萬盈千。主在其中，好像在西奈聖山一樣。
The chariots of God are twenty thousand, even thousands of angels: the Lord is among them, as in Sinai, in the holy place.

68:18    你已經升上高天，擄掠仇敵，你在人間，就是在悖逆的人間，受了供獻，叫耶和華神可以與他們同住。
Thou hast ascended on high, thou hast led captivity captive: thou hast received gifts for men; yea, for the rebellious also, that the LORD God might dwell among them.

68:19    天天揹負我們重擔的主，就是拯救我們的神。是應當稱頌的。（細拉）
Blessed be the Lord, who daily loadeth us with benefits, even the God of our salvation. Selah.

68:20    神是為我們施行諸般救恩的神。人能脫離死亡，是在乎主耶和華。
He that is our God is the God of salvation; and unto GOD the Lord belong the issues from death.

68:21    但神要打破他仇敵的頭，就是那常犯罪之人的發頂。
But God shall wound the head of his enemies, and the hairy scalp of such an one as goeth on still in his trespasses.

68:22    主說，我要使眾民從巴珊而歸，使他們從深海而回。
The Lord said, I will bring again from Bashan, I will bring my people again from the depths of the sea:

68:23    使你打碎仇敵，你的腳踹在血中，使你狗的舌頭，從其中得分。
That thy foot may be dipped in the blood of thine enemies, and the tongue of thy dogs in the same.

68:24    神阿，你是我的神，我的王。人已經看見你行走，進入聖所。
They have seen thy goings, O God; even the goings of my God, my King, in the sanctuary.

68:25    歌唱的行在前，作樂的隨在後，都在擊鼓的童女中間。
The singers went before, the players on instruments followed after; among them were the damsels playing with timbrels.

68:26    從以色列源頭而來的，當在各會中稱頌主神。
Bless ye God in the congregations, even the Lord, from the fountain of Israel.

68:27    在那裡有統管他們的小便雅憫，有猶大的首領，和他們的群眾。有西布倫的首領。有拿弗他利的首領。
There is little Benjamin with their ruler, the princes of Judah and their council, the princes of Zebulun, and the princes of Naphtali.

68:28    以色列的能力，是神所賜的。神阿，求你堅固你為我們所成全的事。
Thy God hath commanded thy strength: strengthen, O God, that which thou hast wrought for us.

68:29    因你耶路撒冷的殿，列王必帶貢物獻給你。
Because of thy temple at Jerusalem shall kings bring presents unto thee.

68:30    求你叱喝蘆葦中的野獸，和群公牛，並列邦中的牛犢，把銀塊踹在腳下。神已經趕散好爭戰的列邦。
Rebuke the company of spearmen, the multitude of the bulls, with the calves of the people, till every one submit himself with pieces of silver: scatter thou the people that delight in war.

68:31    埃及的公侯要出來朝見神。古實人要急忙舉手禱告。
Princes shall come out of Egypt; Ethiopia shall soon stretch out her hands unto God.

68:32    世上的列國阿，你們要向神歌唱。願你們歌頌主，
Sing unto God, ye kingdoms of the earth; O sing praises unto the Lord; Selah:

68:33    歌頌那自古駕行在諸天以上的主。他發出聲音，是極大的聲音。
To him that rideth upon the heavens of heavens, which were of old; lo, he doth send out his voice, and that a mighty voice.

68:34    你們要將能力歸給神。他的威榮在以色列之上，他的能力是在穹蒼。
Ascribe ye strength unto God: his excellency is over Israel, and his strength is in the clouds.

68:35    神阿，你從聖所顯為可畏。以色列的神，是那將力量權能賜給他白姓的。神是應當稱頌的。
O God, thou art terrible out of thy holy places: the God of Israel is he that giveth strength and power unto his people. Blessed be God.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 69 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


69:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長，呼叫百合花）神阿，求你救我。因為眾水要淹沒我。
Save me, O God; for the waters are come in unto my soul.

69:2    我陷在深淤泥中，沒有立腳之地。我到了深水中。大水漫過我身。
I sink in deep mire, where there is no standing: I am come into deep waters, where the floods overflow me.

69:3    我因呼求睏乏，喉嚨發乾。我因等候神，眼睛失明。
I am weary of my crying: my throat is dried: mine eyes fail while I wait for my God.



69:4    無故恨我的，比我頭髮還多。無理與我為仇，要把我剪除的甚為強盛。我沒有搶奪的，要叫我償還。
They that hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of mine head: they that would destroy me, being mine enemies wrongfully, are mighty: then I restored that which I took not away.

69:5    神阿，我的愚昧你原知道。我的罪愆不能隱瞞。
O God, thou knowest my foolishness; and my sins are not hid from thee.

69:6    萬軍的主耶和華阿，求你叫那等候你的，不要因我蒙羞。以色列的神阿，求你叫那尋求你的，不要因我受辱。
Let not them that wait on thee, O Lord GOD of hosts, be ashamed for my sake: let not those that seek thee be confounded for my sake, O God of Israel.

69:7    因我為你的緣故受了辱罵，滿面羞愧。
Because for thy sake I have borne reproach; shame hath covered my face.

69:8    我的弟兄看我為外路人。我的同胞看我為外邦人。
I am become a stranger unto my brethren, and an alien unto my mother's children.

69:9    因我為你的殿心裡焦急，如同火燒。並且辱罵你人的辱罵，都落在我身上。
For the zeal of thine house hath eaten me up; and the reproaches of them that reproached thee are fallen upon me.

69:10    我哭泣，以禁食刻苦我心，這倒算為我的羞辱。
When I wept, and chastened my soul with fasting, that was to my reproach.

69:11    我拿麻布當衣裳。就成了他們的笑談。
I made sackcloth also my garment; and I became a proverb to them.

69:12    坐在城門口的談論我。酒徒也以我為歌曲。
They that sit in the gate speak against me; and I was the song of the drunkards.

69:13    但我在悅納的時候，向你耶和華祈禱。神阿，求你按你豐盛的慈愛，憑你拯救的誠實，應允我。
But as for me, my prayer is unto thee, O LORD, in an acceptable time: O God, in the multitude of thy mercy hear me, in the truth of thy salvation.

69:14    求你搭救我出離淤泥，不叫我陷在其中。求你使我脫離那些恨我的人，使我出離深水。
Deliver me out of the mire, and let me not sink: let me be delivered from them that hate me, and out of the deep waters.

69:15    求你不容大水漫過我，不容深淵吞滅我，不容坑坎在我以上合口。
Let not the waterflood overflow me, neither let the deep swallow me up, and let not the pit shut her mouth upon me.

69:16    耶和華阿，求你應允我，因為你的慈愛本為美好。求你按你豐盛的慈悲，迴轉眷顧我。
Hear me, O LORD; for thy lovingkindness is good: turn unto me according to the multitude of thy tender mercies.

69:17    不要掩面不顧你的僕人。我是在急難之中。求你速速的應允我。
And hide not thy face from thy servant; for I am in trouble: hear me speedily.

69:18    求你親近我，救贖我。求你因我的仇敵把我贖回。
Draw nigh unto my soul, and redeem it: deliver me because of mine enemies.

69:19    你知道我受的辱罵，欺凌，羞辱。我的敵人都在你面前。
Thou hast known my reproach, and my shame, and my dishonour: mine adversaries are all before thee.

69:20    辱罵傷破了我的心。我又滿了憂愁。我指望有人體恤，卻沒有一個。我指望有人安慰，卻找不著一個。
Reproach hath broken my heart; and I am full of heaviness: and I looked for some to take pity, but there was none; and for comforters, but I found none.



69:21    他們拿苦膽給我當食物。我渴了，他們拿醋給我喝。
They gave me also gall for my meat; and in my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink.

69:22    願他們的筵席，在他們面前變為網羅，在他們平安的時候，變為機檻。
Let their table become a snare before them: and that which should have been for their welfare, let it become a trap.

69:23    願他們的眼睛昏蒙，不得看見。願你使他們的腰常常戰抖。
Let their eyes be darkened, that they see not; and make their loins continually to shake.

69:24    求你將你的惱恨，倒在他們身上，叫你的烈怒追上他們。
Pour out thine indignation upon them, and let thy wrathful anger take hold of them.

69:25    願他們的住處，變為荒場。願他們的帳棚，無人居住。
Let their habitation be desolate; and let none dwell in their tents.

69:26    因為你所擊打的，他們就逼迫。你所擊傷的他們戲說他的愁苦。
For they persecute him whom thou hast smitten; and they talk to the grief of those whom thou hast wounded.

69:27    願你在他們的罪上加罪，不容他們在你面前稱義。
Add iniquity unto their iniquity: and let them not come into thy righteousness.

69:28    願他們從生命冊上被塗抹，不得記錄在義人之中。
Let them be blotted out of the book of the living, and not be written with the righteous.

69:29    但我是困苦憂傷的。神阿，你的救恩，將我安置在高處。
But I am poor and sorrowful: let thy salvation, O God, set me up on high.

69:30    我要以詩歌讚美神的名，以感謝稱他為大。
I will praise the name of God with a song, and will magnify him with thanksgiving.

69:31    這便叫耶和華喜悅，勝似獻牛，或是獻有角有蹄的公牛。
This also shall please the LORD better than an ox or bullock that hath horns and hoofs.

69:32    謙卑的人看見了，就喜樂。尋求神的人，願你們的心甦醒。
The humble shall see this, and be glad: and your heart shall live that seek God.

69:33    因為耶和華聽了窮乏人，不藐視被囚的人。
For the LORD heareth the poor, and despiseth not his prisoners.

69:34    願天和地，洋海，和其中一切的動物，都讚美他。
Let the heaven and earth praise him, the seas, and every thing that moveth therein.

69:35    因為神要拯救錫安，建造猶大的城邑。他的民要在那裡居住，得以為業。
For God will save Zion, and will build the cities of Judah: that they may dwell there, and have it in possession.

69:36    他僕人的後裔，要承受為業。愛他名的人，也要住在其中。
The seed also of his servants shall inherit it: and they that love his name shall dwell therein.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 70 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


70:1    （大衛的記念詩，交與伶長）神阿，求你快快搭救我。耶和華阿，求你速速幫助我。
MAKE HASTE, O GOD, TO DELIVER ME; MAKE HASTE TO HELP ME, O LORD.

70:2    願那些尋索我命的，抱愧蒙羞。願那些喜悅我遭害的，退後受辱。
Let them be ashamed and confounded that seek after my soul: let them be turned backward, and put to confusion, that desire my hurt.

70:3    願那些對我說，阿哈，阿哈的，因羞愧退後。
Let them be turned back for a reward of their shame that say, Aha, aha.

70:4    願一切尋求你的，因你高興歡喜。願那些喜愛你救恩的常說，當尊神為大。
Let all those that seek thee rejoice and be glad in thee: and let such as love thy salvation say continually, Let God be magnified.

70:5    但我是困苦窮乏的。神阿，求你速速到我這裡來。你是幫助我的，搭救我的。耶和華阿，求你不要耽延。
But I am poor and needy: make haste unto me, O God: thou art my help and my deliverer; O LORD, make no tarrying.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 71 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


71:1    耶和華阿，我投靠你。求你叫我永不羞愧。
In thee, O LORD, do I put my trust: let me never be put to confusion.

71:2    求你憑你的公義搭救我，救拔我，側耳聽我，拯救我。
Deliver me in thy righteousness, and cause me to escape: incline thine ear unto me, and save me.

71:3    求你作我常住的磐石。你已經命定要救我。因為你是我的岩石，我的山寨。
Be thou my strong habitation, whereunto I may continually resort: thou hast given commandment to save me; for thou art my rock and my fortress.

71:4    我的神阿，求你救我脫離惡人的手，脫離不義和殘暴之人的手。
Deliver me, O my God, out of the hand of the wicked, out of the hand of the unrighteous and cruel man.

71:5    主耶和華阿，你是我所盼望的。從我年幼你是我所倚靠的。
For thou art my hope, O Lord GOD: thou art my trust from my youth.

71:6    我從出母胎被你扶持。使我出母腹的是你。我必常常讚美你。
By thee have I been holden up from the womb: thou art he that took me out of my mother's bowels: my praise shall be continually of thee.

71:7    許多人以我為怪。但你是我堅固的避難所。
I am as a wonder unto many; but thou art my strong refuge.

71:8    你的讚美，你的榮耀，終日必滿了我的口。
Let my mouth be filled with thy praise and with thy honour all the day.

71:9    我年老的時候，求你不要丟棄我。我力氣衰弱的時候，求你不要離棄我。
Cast me not off in the time of old age; forsake me not when my strength faileth.

71:10    我的仇敵議論我。那些窺探要害我命的彼此商議，
For mine enemies speak against me; and they that lay wait for my soul take counsel together,

71:11    說，神已經離棄他。我們追趕他，捉拿他吧。因為沒有人搭救。
Saying, God hath forsaken him: persecute and take him; for there is none to deliver him.

71:12    神阿，求你不要遠離我。我的神阿，求你速速幫助我。
O God, be not far from me: O my God, make haste for my help.

71:13    願那與我性命為敵的，羞愧被滅。願那謀害我的，受辱蒙羞。
Let them be confounded and consumed that are adversaries to my soul; let them be covered with reproach and dishonour that seek my hurt.

71:14    我卻要常常盼望，並要越發讚美你。
But I will hope continually, and will yet praise thee more and more.

71:15    我的口終日要述說你的公義，和你的救恩。因我不計其數。
My mouth shall shew forth thy righteousness and thy salvation all the day; for I know not the numbers thereof.

71:16    我要來說主耶和華大能的事。我單要題說你的公義。
I will go in the strength of the Lord GOD: I will make mention of thy righteousness, even of thine only.

71:17    神阿，自我年幼時，你就教訓我。直到如今，我傳揚你奇妙的作為。
O God, thou hast taught me from my youth: and hitherto have I declared thy wondrous works.

71:18    神阿，我到年老發白的時候，求你不要離棄我，等我將你的能力指示下代，將你的大能指示後世的人。
Now also when I am old and greyheaded, O God, forsake me not; until I have shewed thy strength unto this generation, and thy power to every one that is to come.

71:19    神阿，你的公義甚高。行過大事的神阿，誰能像你。
Thy righteousness also, O God, is very high, who hast done great things: O God, who is like unto thee!

71:20    你是叫我們多經歷重大急難的，必使我們復活。從地的深處救上來。
Thou, which hast shewed me great and sore troubles, shalt quicken me again, and shalt bring me up again from the depths of the earth.

71:21    求你使我越發昌大，又轉來安慰我。
Thou shalt increase my greatness, and comfort me on every side.

71:22    我的神阿，我要鼓瑟稱讚你，稱讚你的誠實。以色列的聖者阿，我要彈琴歌頌你。
I will also praise thee with the psaltery, even thy truth, O my God: unto thee will I sing with the harp, O thou Holy One of Israel.

71:23    我歌頌你的時候，我的嘴脣，和你所贖我的靈魂，都必歡呼。
My lips shall greatly rejoice when I sing unto thee; and my soul, which thou hast redeemed.

71:24    並且我的舌頭，必終日講論你的公義，因為那些謀害我的人，已經蒙羞受辱了。
My tongue also shall talk of thy righteousness all the day long: for they are confounded, for they are brought unto shame, that seek my hurt.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 72 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


72:1    （所羅門的詩）神阿，求你將判斷的權柄賜給王，將公義賜給王的兒子。
Give the king thy judgments, O God, and thy righteousness unto the king's son.

72:2    他要按公義審判你的民，按公平審判你的困苦人。
He shall judge thy people with righteousness, and thy poor with judgment.

72:3    大山小山，都要因公義使民得享平安。
The mountains shall bring peace to the people, and the little hills, by righteousness.

72:4    他必為民中的困苦人伸冤，拯救窮乏之輩，壓碎那欺壓人的。
He shall judge the poor of the people, he shall save the children of the needy, and shall break in pieces the oppressor.

72:5    太陽還存，月亮還在，人要敬畏你，直到萬代。
They shall fear thee as long as the sun and moon endure, throughout all generations.

72:6    他必降臨，像雨降在已割的草地上，如甘霖滋潤田地。
He shall come down like rain upon the mown grass: as showers that water the earth.

72:7    在他的日子義人要發旺，大有平安，好像月亮長存。
In his days shall the righteous flourish; and abundance of peace so long as the moon endureth.

72:8    他要執掌權柄，從這海直到那海，從大河直到地極。
He shall have dominion also from sea to sea, and from the river unto the ends of the earth.

72:9    住在曠野的，必在他面前下拜。他的仇敵，必要舔土。
They that dwell in the wilderness shall bow before him; and his enemies shall lick the dust.

72:10    他施和海島的王要進貢。示巴和西巴的王要獻禮物。
The kings of Tarshish and of the isles shall bring presents: the kings of Sheba and Seba shall offer gifts.

72:11    諸王都要叩拜他，萬國都要事奉他。
Yea, all kings shall fall down before him: all nations shall serve him.

72:12    因為窮乏人呼求的時候，他要搭救，沒有人幫助的困苦人，他也要搭救。
For he shall deliver the needy when he crieth; the poor also, and him that hath no helper.

72:13    他要憐恤貧寒和窮乏的人，拯救窮苦人的性命。
He shall spare the poor and needy, and shall save the souls of the needy.

72:14    他要救贖他們脫離欺壓和強暴。他們的血在他眼中看為寶貴。
He shall redeem their soul from deceit and violence: and precious shall their blood be in his sight.

72:15    他們要存活。示巴的金子要奉給他。人要常常為他禱告，終日稱頌他。
And he shall live, and to him shall be given of the gold of Sheba: prayer also shall be made for him continually; and daily shall he be praised.

72:16    在地的山頂上，五穀必然茂盛。（五穀必然茂盛或作有一把五穀）所結的谷實，要響動如黎巴嫩的樹林。城裡的人，要發旺如地上的草。
There shall be an handful of corn in the earth upon the top of the mountains; the fruit thereof shall shake like Lebanon: and they of the city shall flourish like grass of the earth.

72:17    他的名要存到永遠，要留傳如日之久。人要因他蒙福。萬國要稱他有福。
His name shall endure for ever: his name shall be continued as long as the sun: and men shall be blessed in him: all nations shall call him blessed.

72:18    獨行奇事的耶和華以色列的神，是應當稱頌的。
Blessed be the LORD God, the God of Israel, who only doeth wondrous things.

72:19    他榮耀的名，也當稱頌，直到永遠。願他的榮耀，充滿全地。阿們，阿們。
And blessed be his glorious name for ever: and let the whole earth be filled with his glory; Amen, and Amen.

72:20    耶西的兒子大衛的祈禱完畢。
The prayers of David the son of Jesse are ended.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 73 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


73:1    （亞薩的詩）神實在恩待以色列那些清心的人。
Truly God is good to Israel, even to such as are of a clean heart.

73:2    至於我，我的腳幾乎失閃。我的腳險些滑跌。
But as for me, my feet were almost gone; my steps had well nigh slipped.

73:3    我見惡人和狂傲人享平安，就心懷不平。
For I was envious at the foolish, when I saw the prosperity of the wicked.

73:4    他們死的時候，沒有疼痛。他們的力氣，卻也壯實。
For there are no bands in their death: but their strength is firm.

73:5    他們不像別人受苦，也不像別人遭災。
They are not in trouble as other men; neither are they plagued like other men.

73:6    所以驕傲如鏈子戴在他們的項上。強暴像衣裳遮住他們的身體。
Therefore pride compasseth them about as a chain; violence covereth them as a garment.

73:7    他們的眼睛，因體胖而凸出。他們所得的，過於心裡所想的。
Their eyes stand out with fatness: they have more than heart could wish.

73:8    他們譏笑人，憑惡意說欺壓人的話。他們說話自高。
They are corrupt, and speak wickedly concerning oppression: they speak loftily.

73:9    他們的口褻瀆上天，他們的舌毀謗全地。
They set their mouth against the heavens, and their tongue walketh through the earth.

73:10    所以神的民歸到這裡，喝盡了滿杯的苦水。
Therefore his people return hither: and waters of a full cup are wrung out to them.

73:11    他們說，神怎能曉得。至高者豈有知識呢。
And they say, How doth God know? and is there knowledge in the most High?

73:12    看哪，這就是惡人。他們既是常享安逸，財寶便加增。
Behold, these are the ungodly, who prosper in the world; they increase in riches.

73:13    我實在徒然潔淨了我的心，徒然洗手錶明無辜。
Verily I have cleansed my heart in vain, and washed my hands in innocency.

73:14    因為我終日遭災難，每早晨受懲治。
For all the day long have I been plagued, and chastened every morning.

73:15    我若說，我要這樣講，這就是以奸詐待你的眾子。
If I say, I will speak thus; behold, I should offend against the generation of thy children.

73:16    我思索怎能明白這事，眼看實係為難。
When I thought to know this, it was too painful for me;

73:17    等我進了神的聖所，思想他們的結局。
Until I went into the sanctuary of God; then understood I their end.

73:18    你實在把他們安在滑地，使他們掉在沉淪之中。
Surely thou didst set them in slippery places: thou castedst them down into destruction.

73:19    他們轉眼之間，成了何等的荒涼。他們被驚恐滅盡了。
How are they brought into desolation, as in a moment! they are utterly consumed with terrors.

73:20    人睡醒了怎樣看夢，主阿，你醒了，也必照樣輕看他們的影像。
As a dream when one awaketh; so, O Lord, when thou awakest, thou shalt despise their image.

73:21    因而我心裡發酸，肺腑被刺。
Thus my heart was grieved, and I was pricked in my reins.

73:22    我這樣愚昧無知，在你面前如畜類一般。
So foolish was I, and ignorant: I was as a beast before thee.

73:23    然而我常與你同在。你攙著我的右手。
Nevertheless I am continually with thee: thou hast holden me by my right hand.

73:24    你要以你的訓言引導我，以後必接我到榮耀裡。
Thou shalt guide me with thy counsel, and afterward receive me to glory.

73:25    除你以外，在天上我有誰呢。除你以外，在地上我也沒有所愛慕的。
Whom have I in heaven but thee? and there is none upon earth that I desire beside thee.

73:26    我的肉體，和我的心腸衰殘。但神是我心裡的力量，又是我的福分，直到永遠。
My flesh and my heart faileth: but God is the strength of my heart, and my portion for ever.

73:27    遠離你的，必要死亡。凡離棄你行邪淫的，你都滅絕了。
For, lo, they that are far from thee shall perish: thou hast destroyed all them that go a whoring from thee.

73:28    但我親近神是與我有益。我以主耶和華為我的避難所，好叫我述說你一切的作為。
But it is good for me to draw near to God: I have put my trust in the Lord GOD, that I may declare all thy works.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 74 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


74:1    （亞薩的訓誨詩）神阿，你為何永遠丟棄我們呢。你為何向你草場的羊發怒如煙冒出呢。
O God, why hast thou cast us off for ever? why doth thine anger smoke against the sheep of thy pasture?

74:2    求你記念你古時所得來的會眾，就是你所贖作你產業支派的。並記念你向來所居住的錫安山。
Remember thy congregation, which thou hast purchased of old; the rod of thine inheritance, which thou hast redeemed; this mount Zion, wherein thou hast dwelt.

74:3    求你舉步去看那日久荒涼之地，仇敵在聖所中所行的一切惡事。
Lift up thy feet unto the perpetual desolations; even all that the enemy hath done wickedly in the sanctuary.



74:4    你的敵人在你會中吼叫。他們豎了自己的旗為記號。
Thine enemies roar in the midst of thy congregations; they set up their ensigns for signs.

74:5    他們好像人揚起斧子，砍伐林中的樹。
A man was famous according as he had lifted up axes upon the thick trees.

74:6    聖所中一切雕刻的，他們現在用斧子錘子打壞了。
But now they break down the carved work thereof at once with axes and hammers.

74:7    他們用火焚燒你的聖所，褻瀆你名的居所，拆毀到地。
They have cast fire into thy sanctuary, they have defiled by casting down the dwelling place of thy name to the ground.

74:8    他們心裡說，我們要盡行毀滅，他們就在遍地把神的會所都燒燬了。
They said in their hearts, Let us destroy them together: they have burned up all the synagogues of God in the land.

74:9    我們不見我們的標幟。不再有先知。我們內中也沒有人知道這災禍要到幾時呢。
We see not our signs: there is no more any prophet: neither is there among us any that knoweth how long.

74:10    神阿，敵人辱罵要到幾時呢。仇敵褻瀆你的名，要到永遠嗎。
O God, how long shall the adversary reproach? shall the enemy blaspheme thy name for ever?

74:11    你為什麼縮回你的右手。求你從懷中伸出來，毀滅他們。
Why withdrawest thou thy hand, even thy right hand? pluck it out of thy bosom.

74:12    神自古以來為我的王，在地上施行拯救。
For God is my King of old, working salvation in the midst of the earth.

74:13    你曾用能力將海分開，將水中大魚的頭打破。
Thou didst divide the sea by thy strength: thou brakest the heads of the dragons in the waters.

74:14    你曾砸碎鱷魚的頭，把他給曠野的禽獸為食物。（禽獸原文作民）
Thou brakest the heads of leviathan in pieces, and gavest him to be meat to the people inhabiting the wilderness.

74:15    你曾分裂磐石，水便成了溪河，你使長流的江河乾了。
Thou didst cleave the fountain and the flood: thou driedst up mighty rivers.

74:16    白晝屬你，黑夜也屬你。亮光和日頭，是你所豫備的。
The day is thine, the night also is thine: thou hast prepared the light and the sun.

74:17    地的一切疆界，是你所立的。夏天和冬天是你所定的。
Thou hast set all the borders of the earth: thou hast made summer and winter.

74:18    耶和華阿，仇敵辱罵，愚頑民褻瀆了你的名，求你記念這事。
Remember this, that the enemy hath reproached, O LORD, and that the foolish people have blasphemed thy name.

74:19    不要將你班鳩的性命交給野獸。不要永遠忘記你困苦人的性命。
O deliver not the soul of thy turtledove unto the multitude of the wicked: forget not the congregation of thy poor for ever.

74:20    求你顧念所立的約。因為地上黑暗之處，都滿了強暴的居所。
Have respect unto the covenant: for the dark places of the earth are full of the habitations of cruelty.

74:21    不要叫受欺壓的人蒙羞回去。要叫困苦窮乏的人讚美你的名。
O let not the oppressed return ashamed: let the poor and needy praise thy name.

74:22    神阿，求你起來，為自己伸訴。要記念愚頑人怎樣終日辱罵你。
Arise, O God, plead thine own cause: remember how the foolish man reproacheth thee daily.

74:23    不要忘記你敵人的聲音。那起來敵你之人的喧譁時常上升。
Forget not the voice of thine enemies: the tumult of those that rise up against thee increaseth continually.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 75 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


75:1    （亞薩的詩歌，交與伶長，呼叫休要毀壞）神阿，我們稱謝你，我們稱謝你，因為你的名相近，人都述說你奇妙的作為。
Unto thee, O God, do we give thanks, unto thee do we give thanks: for that thy name is near thy wondrous works declare.

75:2    我到了所定的日期，必按正直施行審判。
When I shall receive the congregation I will judge uprightly.

75:3    地和其上的居民，都消化了。我曾立了地的柱子。（細拉）
The earth and all the inhabitants thereof are dissolved: I bear up the pillars of it. Selah.

75:4    我對狂傲人說，不要行事狂傲。對凶惡的人說，不要舉角。
I said unto the fools, Deal not foolishly: and to the wicked, Lift not up the horn:

75:5    不要把你們的角高舉。不要挺著頸項說話。
Lift not up your horn on high: speak not with a stiff neck.

75:6    因為高舉非從東，非從西，也非從南而來。
For promotion cometh neither from the east, nor from the west, nor from the south.

75:7    惟有神斷定。他使這人降卑，使那人升高。
But God is the judge: he putteth down one, and setteth up another.

75:8    耶和華手裡有杯。其中的酒起沫。杯內滿了攙雜的酒。他倒出來。地上的惡人必都喝這酒的渣滓，而且喝盡。
For in the hand of the LORD there is a cup, and the wine is red; it is full of mixture; and he poureth out of the same: but the dregs thereof, all the wicked of the earth shall wring them out, and drink them.

75:9    但我要宣揚，直到永遠。我要歌頌雅各的神。
But I will declare for ever; I will sing praises to the God of Jacob.

75:10    惡人一切的角，我要砍斷。惟有義人的角，必被高舉。
All the horns of the wicked also will I cut off; but the horns of the righteous shall be exalted.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 76 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


76:1    （亞薩的詩歌，交與伶長，用絲絃的樂器）在猶大神為人所認識。在以色列他的名為大。
In Judah is God known: his name is great in Israel.

76:2    在撒冷有他的帳幕，在錫安有他的居所。
In Salem also is his tabernacle, and his dwelling place in Zion.

76:3    他在那裡折斷弓上的火箭，並盾牌，刀劍，和爭戰的兵器。（細拉）
There brake he the arrows of the bow, the shield, and the sword, and the battle. Selah.

76:4    你從有野食之山而來，有光華和榮美。
Thou art more glorious and excellent than the mountains of prey.

76:5    心中勇敢的人，都被搶奪。他們睡了長覺。沒有一個英雄能措手。
The stouthearted are spoiled, they have slept their sleep: and none of the men of might have found their hands.

76:6    雅各的神阿，你的斥責一發坐車的，騎馬的，都沉睡了。
At thy rebuke, O God of Jacob, both the chariot and horse are cast into a dead sleep.

76:7    惟獨你是可畏的。你怒氣一發，誰能在你面前刪得住呢。
Thou, even thou, art to be feared: and who may stand in thy sight when once thou art angry?

76:8    你從天上使人聽判斷。
Thou didst cause judgment to be heard from heaven; the earth feared, and was still,



76:9    神起來施行審判，要救地上一切謙卑的人。那時地就懼怕而靜默。（細拉）
When God arose to judgment, to save all the meek of the earth. Selah.

76:10    人的忿怒，要成全你的榮美。人的餘怒，你要禁止。
Surely the wrath of man shall praise thee: the remainder of wrath shalt thou restrain.

76:11    你們許願，當向耶和華你們的神還願。在他四面的人，都當拿貢物獻給那可畏的主。
Vow, and pay unto the LORD your God: let all that be round about him bring presents unto him that ought to be feared.

76:12    他要挫折王子的驕氣。他向地上的君王，顯威可畏。
He shall cut off the spirit of princes: he is terrible to the kings of the earth.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 77 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


77:1    （亞薩的詩，照耶杜頓的作法，交與伶長）我要向神發聲呼求。我向神發聲，他必留心聽我。
I cried unto God with my voice, even unto God with my voice; and he gave ear unto me.

77:2    我在患難之日尋求主。我在夜間不住的舉手禱告。我的心不肯受安慰。
In the day of my trouble I sought the Lord: my sore ran in the night, and ceased not: my soul refused to be comforted.

77:3    我想念神，就煩躁不安。我沉吟悲傷，心便發昏。（細拉）
I remembered God, and was troubled: I complained, and my spirit was overwhelmed. Selah.



77:4    你叫我不能閉眼。我煩亂不安，甚至不能說話。
Thou holdest mine eyes waking: I am so troubled that I cannot speak.

77:5    我追想古時之日，上古之年。
I have considered the days of old, the years of ancient times.

77:6    我想起我夜間的歌曲，捫心自問。我心裡也仔細省察。
I call to remembrance my song in the night: I commune with mine own heart: and my spirit made diligent search.

77:7    難道主要永遠丟棄我，不再施恩嗎。
Will the Lord cast off for ever? and will he be favourable no more?

77:8    難道他的慈愛永遠窮盡，他的應許世世廢棄嗎。
Is his mercy clean gone for ever? doth his promise fail for evermore?

77:9    難道神忘記開恩。因發怒就止住他的慈悲嗎。（細拉）
Hath God forgotten to be gracious? hath he in anger shut up his tender mercies? Selah.

77:10    我便說，這是我的懦弱。但我要追念至高者顯出右手之年代。
And I said, This is my infirmity: but I will remember the years of the right hand of the most High.

77:11    我要題說耶和華所行的。我要記念你古時的奇事。
I will remember the works of the LORD: surely I will remember thy wonders of old.

77:12    我也要思想你的經營，默唸你的作為。
I will meditate also of all thy work, and talk of thy doings.



77:13    神阿，你的作為是潔淨的。有何神大如神呢。
Thy way, O God, is in the sanctuary: who is so great a God as our God?

77:14    你是行奇事的神。你曾在列邦中彰顯你的能力。
Thou art the God that doest wonders: thou hast declared thy strength among the people.

77:15    你曾用你的膀臂贖了你的民，就是雅各和約瑟的子孫。（細拉）
Thou hast with thine arm redeemed thy people, the sons of Jacob and Joseph. Selah.

77:16    神阿，諸水見你，一見就都驚惶。深淵也都戰抖。
The waters saw thee, O God, the waters saw thee; they were afraid: the depths also were troubled.

77:17    雲中倒出水來。天空發出響聲。你的箭也飛行四方。
The clouds poured out water: the skies sent out a sound: thine arrows also went abroad.

77:18    你的雷聲在旋風中。電光照亮世界。大地戰抖震動。
The voice of thy thunder was in the heaven: the lightnings lightened the world: the earth trembled and shook.



77:19    你的道在海中，你的路在大水中，你的腳蹤無人知道。
Thy way is in the sea, and thy path in the great waters, and thy footsteps are not known.

77:20    你曾藉摩西和亞倫的手，引導你的百姓，好像羊群一般。
Thou leddest thy people like a flock by the hand of Moses and Aaron.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 78 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


78:1    （亞薩的訓誨詩）我的民哪，你門要留心聽我的訓誨，側耳聽我口中的話。
Give ear, O my people, to my law: incline your ears to the words of my mouth.

78:2    我要開口說比喻。我要說出古時的謎語。
I will open my mouth in a parable: I will utter dark sayings of old:

78:3    是我們所聽見所知道的，也是我們的祖宗告訴我們的。
Which we have heard and known, and our fathers have told us.

78:4    我們不將這些事向他們的子孫隱瞞。要將耶和華的美德和他的能力，並他奇妙的作為，述說給後代聽。
We will not hide them from their children, shewing to the generation to come the praises of the LORD, and his strength, and his wonderful works that he hath done.

78:5    因為他在雅各中立法度，在以色列中設律法，是他吩咐我們祖宗，要傳給子孫的。
For he established a testimony in Jacob, and appointed a law in Israel, which he commanded our fathers, that they should make them known to their children:

78:6    使將要生的後代子孫，可以曉得。他們也要起來告訴他們的子孫。
That the generation to come might know them, even the children which should be born; who should arise and declare them to their children:

78:7    好叫他們仰望神，不忘記神的作為。惟要守他的命令。
That they might set their hope in God, and not forget the works of God, but keep his commandments:

78:8    不要像他們的祖宗，是頑梗悖逆居心不正之輩，向著神心不誠實。
And might not be as their fathers, a stubborn and rebellious generation; a generation that set not their heart aright, and whose spirit was not stedfast with God.

78:9    以法蓮的子孫，帶著兵器，拿著弓，臨陣之日，轉身退後。
The children of Ephraim, being armed, and carrying bows, turned back in the day of battle.

78:10    他們不遵守神的約，不肯照他的律法行。
They kept not the covenant of God, and refused to walk in his law;

78:11    又忘記他所行的，和他顯給他們奇妙的作為。
And forgat his works, and his wonders that he had shewed them.

78:12    他在埃及地，在瑣安田，在他們祖宗的眼前，施行奇事。
Marvellous things did he in the sight of their fathers, in the land of Egypt, in the field of Zoan.

78:13    他將海分裂，使他們過去。又叫水立起如壘。
He divided the sea, and caused them to pass through; and he made the waters to stand as an heap.

78:14    他白日用雲彩，終夜用火光，引導他們。
In the daytime also he led them with a cloud, and all the night with a light of fire.

78:15    他在曠野分裂磐石，多多的給他們水喝，如從深淵而出。
He clave the rocks in the wilderness, and gave them drink as out of the great depths.

78:16    他使水從磐石湧出，叫水如江河下流。
He brought streams also out of the rock, and caused waters to run down like rivers.

78:17    他們卻仍舊得罪他，在乾燥之地悖逆至高者。
And they sinned yet more against him by provoking the most High in the wilderness.

78:18    他們心中試探神，隨自己所欲的求食物。
And they tempted God in their heart by asking meat for their lust.

78:19    並且妄論神，說，神在曠野豈能擺設筵席嗎。
Yea, they spake against God; they said, Can God furnish a table in the wilderness?

78:20    他曾擊打磐石，使水湧出，成了江河。他還能賜糧食嗎。還能為他的百姓豫備肉嗎。
Behold, he smote the rock, that the waters gushed out, and the streams overflowed; can he give bread also? can he provide flesh for his people?

78:21    所以耶和華聽見，就發怒。有烈火向雅各燒起，有怒氣向以色列上騰。
Therefore the LORD heard this, and was wroth: so a fire was kindled against Jacob, and anger also came up against Israel;

78:22    因為他們不信服神，不倚賴他的救恩。
Because they believed not in God, and trusted not in his salvation:

78:23    他卻吩咐天空，又敞開天上的門。
Though he had commanded the clouds from above, and opened the doors of heaven,

78:24    降嗎哪像雨給他們吃，將天上的糧食賜給他們。
And had rained down manna upon them to eat, and had given them of the corn of heaven.

78:25    各人或作人吃大能者的食物。他賜下糧食，使他們飽足。
Man did eat angels' food: he sent them meat to the full.

78:26    他領東風起在天空，又用能力引了南風來。
He caused an east wind to blow in the heaven: and by his power he brought in the south wind.

78:27    他降肉像雨在他們當中，多如塵土，又降飛鳥，多如海沙。
He rained flesh also upon them as dust, and feathered fowls like as the sand of the sea:

78:28    落在他們的營中，在他們住處的四面。
And he let it fall in the midst of their camp, round about their habitations.

78:29    他們吃了，而且飽足。這樣，就隨了他們所欲的。
So they did eat, and were well filled: for he gave them their own desire;

78:30    他們貪而無厭，食物還在他們口中的時候，
They were not estranged from their lust. But while their meat was yet in their mouths,

78:31    神的怒氣，就向他們上騰，殺了他們內中的肥壯人。打倒以色列的少年人。
The wrath of God came upon them, and slew the fattest of them, and smote down the chosen men of Israel.

78:32    雖是這樣，他們仍舊犯罪，不信他奇妙的作為。
For all this they sinned still, and believed not for his wondrous works.

78:33    因此他叫他們的日子，全歸虛空，叫他們的年歲，盡屬驚恐。
Therefore their days did he consume in vanity, and their years in trouble.

78:34    他殺他們的時候，他們才求問他，回心轉意，切切的尋求神。
When he slew them, then they sought him: and they returned and enquired early after God.

78:35    他們也追念神是他們的磐石，至高的神，是他們的救贖主。
And they remembered that God was their rock, and the high God their redeemer.

78:36    他們卻用口餡媚他，用舌向他說謊。
Nevertheless they did flatter him with their mouth, and they lied unto him with their tongues.

78:37    因他們的心向他不正，在他的約上，也不忠心。
For their heart was not right with him, neither were they stedfast in his covenant.

78:38    但他有憐憫，赦免他們的罪孽，不滅絕他們。而且屢次消他的怒氣，不發盡他的忿怒。
But he, being full of compassion, forgave their iniquity, and destroyed them not: yea, many a time turned he his anger away, and did not stir up all his wrath.

78:39    他想到他們不過是血氣，是一陣去而不返的風。
For he remembered that they were but flesh; a wind that passeth away, and cometh not again.

78:40    他們在曠野悖逆他，在荒地叫他擔憂，何其多呢。
How oft did they provoke him in the wilderness, and grieve him in the desert!

78:41    他們再三試探神，惹動以色列的聖者。
Yea, they turned back and tempted God, and limited the Holy One of Israel.

78:42    他們不追念他的能力（原文作手），和贖他們脫離敵人的日子。
They remembered not his hand, nor the day when he delivered them from the enemy.

78:43    他怎樣在埃及地顯神蹟，在瑣安田顯奇事。
How he had wrought his signs in Egypt, and his wonders in the field of Zoan:

78:44    把他們的江河，並河汊的水，都變為血，使他們不能喝。
And had turned their rivers into blood; and their floods, that they could not drink.

78:45    他叫蒼蠅成群，落在他們當中，吸盡他們。又叫青蛙滅了他們。
He sent divers sorts of flies among them, which devoured them; and frogs, which destroyed them.

78:46    把他們的土產交給螞蚱，把他們辛苦得來的交給蝗蟲。
He gave also their increase unto the caterpiller, and their labour unto the locust.

78:47    他降冰雹打壞他們的葡萄樹。下嚴霜打壞他們的桑樹。
He destroyed their vines with hail, and their sycomore trees with frost.

78:48    又把他們的牲畜交給冰雹，把他們的群畜交給閃電。
He gave up their cattle also to the hail, and their flocks to hot thunderbolts.

78:49    他使猛烈的怒氣，和忿怒，惱恨，苦難，成了一群降災的使者，臨到他們。
He cast upon them the fierceness of his anger, wrath, and indignation, and trouble, by sending evil angels among them.

78:50    他為自己的怒氣修平了路，將他們交給瘟疫，使他們死亡。
He made a way to his anger; he spared not their soul from death, but gave their life over to the pestilence;

78:51    在埃及擊殺一切長子，在含的帳棚中，擊殺他們強壯時頭生的。
And smote all the firstborn in Egypt; the chief of their strength in the tabernacles of Ham:

78:52    他卻領出自己的民如羊，在曠野引他們如羊群。
But made his own people to go forth like sheep, and guided them in the wilderness like a flock.

78:53    他領他們穩穩妥妥的，使他們不至害怕。海卻淹沒他們的仇敵。
And he led them on safely, so that they feared not: but the sea overwhelmed their enemies.

78:54    他帶他們到自己聖地的邊界，到他右手所得的這山地。
And he brought them to the border of his sanctuary, even to this mountain, which his right hand had purchased.

78:55    他在他們面前趕出外邦人，用繩子將外邦的地量給他們為業，叫以色列支派的人，住在他們的帳棚裡。
He cast out the heathen also before them, and divided them an inheritance by line, and made the tribes of Israel to dwell in their tents.

78:56    他們仍舊試探悖逆至高的神，不守他的法度。
Yet they tempted and provoked the most high God, and kept not his testimonies:

78:57    反倒退後，行詭詐，像他們的祖宗一樣。他們改變，如同翻背的弓。
But turned back, and dealt unfaithfully like their fathers: they were turned aside like a deceitful bow.

78:58    因他們的邱壇，惹了他的怒氣，因他們雕刻的偶像，觸動他的憤恨。
For they provoked him to anger with their high places, and moved him to jealousy with their graven images.

78:59    神聽見，就發怒，極其憎惡以色列人。
When God heard this, he was wroth, and greatly abhorred Israel:

78:60    甚至他離棄示羅的帳幕，就是他在人間所搭的帳棚。
So that he forsook the tabernacle of Shiloh, the tent which he placed among men;

78:61    又將他的約櫃原文作能力交與人擄去，將他的榮耀交在敵人手中。
And delivered his strength into captivity, and his glory into the enemy's hand.

78:62    並將他的百姓交與刀劍，向他的產業發怒。
He gave his people over also unto the sword; and was wroth with his inheritance.

78:63    少年人被火燒滅。處女也無喜歌。
The fire consumed their young men; and their maidens were not given to marriage.

78:64    祭司倒在刀下。寡婦卻不哀哭。
Their priests fell by the sword; and their widows made no lamentation.

78:65    那時主像世人睡醒，像勇士飲酒呼喊。
Then the LORD awaked as one out of sleep, and like a mighty man that shouteth by reason of wine.

78:66    他就打退了他的敵人，叫他們永蒙羞辱。
And he smote his enemies in the hinder parts: he put them to a perpetual reproach.

78:67    並且他棄掉約瑟的帳棚，不揀選以法蓮支派，
Moreover he refused the tabernacle of Joseph, and chose not the tribe of Ephraim:

78:68    卻揀選猶大支派，他所喜愛的錫安山。
But chose the tribe of Judah, the mount Zion which he loved.

78:69    蓋造他的聖所，好像高峰，又像他建立永存之地。
And he built his sanctuary like high palaces, like the earth which he hath established for ever.

78:70    又揀選他的僕人大衛，從羊圈中將他召來。
He chose David also his servant, and took him from the sheepfolds:

78:71    叫他不再跟從那些帶奶的母羊，為要牧養自己的百姓雅各，和自己的產業以色列。
From following the ewes great with young he brought him to feed Jacob his people, and Israel his inheritance.

78:72    於是他按心中的純正，牧養他們，用手中的巧妙，引導他們。
So he fed them according to the integrity of his heart; and guided them by the skilfulness of his hands.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 79 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


79:1    （亞薩的詩）神阿，外邦人進入你的產業，汙穢你的聖殿，使耶路撒冷變成荒堆。
O GOD, the heathen are come into thine inheritance; thy holy temple have they defiled; they have laid Jerusalem on heaps.

79:2    把你僕人的屍首，交與天空的飛鳥為食，把你聖民的肉，交與地上的野獸。
The dead bodies of thy servants have they given to be meat unto the fowls of the heaven, the flesh of thy saints unto the beasts of the earth.

79:3    在耶路撒冷周圍流他們的血如水，無人葬埋。
Their blood have they shed like water round about Jerusalem; and there was none to bury them.

79:4    我們成為鄰國的羞辱，成為我們四圍人的嗤笑譏刺。
We are become a reproach to our neighbours, a scorn and derision to them that are round about us.

79:5    耶和華阿，這到幾時呢。你要動怒到永遠嗎。你的憤怒要如火焚燒嗎。
How long, LORD? wilt thou be angry for ever? shall thy jealousy burn like fire?

79:6    願你將你的憤怒倒在那不認識你的外邦，和那不求告你名的國度。
Pour out thy wrath upon the heathen that have not known thee, and upon the kingdoms that have not called upon thy name.

79:7    因為他們吞了雅各，把他的住處變為荒場。
For they have devoured Jacob, and laid waste his dwelling place.

79:8    求你不要記念我們先祖的罪孽，向我們追討。願你的慈悲快迎著我們。因為我們落到極卑微的地步。
O remember not against us former iniquities: let thy tender mercies speedily prevent us: for we are brought very low.

79:9    拯救我們的神阿，求你因你名的榮耀，幫助我們，為你名的緣故，搭救我們，赦免我們的罪。
Help us, O God of our salvation, for the glory of thy name: and deliver us, and purge away our sins, for thy name's sake.

79:10    為何容外邦人說，他們的神在那裡呢。願你使外邦人知道你在我們眼前，伸你僕人流血的冤。
Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is their God? let him be known among the heathen in our sight by the revenging of the blood of thy servants which is shed.

79:11    願被囚之人的嘆息，達到你面前。願你按你的大能力，存留那些將要死的人。
Let the sighing of the prisoner come before thee; according to the greatness of thy power preserve thou those that are appointed to die;

79:12    主阿，願你將我們鄰邦所羞辱你的羞辱，加七倍歸到他們的身上。
And render unto our neighbours sevenfold into their bosom their reproach, wherewith they have reproached thee, O Lord.

79:13    這樣，你的民，你草場的羊，要稱謝你，直到永遠。要述說讚美你的話，直到萬代。
So we thy people and sheep of thy pasture will give thee thanks for ever: we will shew forth thy praise to all generations.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 80 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


80:1    （亞薩的詩，交與伶長，呼叫為證的百合花）領約瑟如領羊群的以色列的牧者阿，求你留心聽。坐在二基路伯上的阿，求你發出光來。
Give ear, O Shepherd of Israel, thou that leadest Joseph like a flock; thou that dwellest between the cherubims, shine forth.

80:2    在以法蓮便雅憫瑪拿西前面施展你的大能，來救我們。
Before Ephraim and Benjamin and Manasseh stir up thy strength, and come and save us.

80:3    神阿，求你使我們迴轉（迴轉或作復興），使你的臉發光，我們便要得救。
Turn us again, O God, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.

80:4    耶和華萬軍之神阿，你向你百姓的禱告發怒，要到幾時呢。
O LORD God of hosts, how long wilt thou be angry against the prayer of thy people?

80:5    你以眼淚當食物給他們吃，又多量出眼淚給他們喝。
Thou feedest them with the bread of tears; and givest them tears to drink in great measure.

80:6    你使鄰邦因我們分爭。我們的仇敵彼此戲笑。
Thou makest us a strife unto our neighbours: and our enemies laugh among themselves.

80:7    萬軍之神阿，求你使我們迴轉，使你的臉發光，我們便要得救。
Turn us again, O God of hosts, and cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.

80:8    你從埃及挪出一棵葡萄樹，趕出外邦人，把這樹栽上。
Thou hast brought a vine out of Egypt: thou hast cast out the heathen, and planted it.

80:9    你在這樹根前豫備了地方，他就深深紮根，爬滿了地。
Thou preparedst room before it, and didst cause it to take deep root, and it filled the land.

80:10    他的影子遮滿了山，枝子好像佳美的香柏樹。
The hills were covered with the shadow of it, and the boughs thereof were like the goodly cedars.

80:11    他發出枝子，長到大海，發出蔓子，延到大河。
She sent out her boughs unto the sea, and her branches unto the river.

80:12    你為何拆毀這樹的籬笆，任憑一切過路的人摘取。
Why hast thou then broken down her hedges, so that all they which pass by the way do pluck her?

80:13    林中出來的野豬，把他糟踏，野地的走獸，拿他當食物。
The boar out of the wood doth waste it, and the wild beast of the field doth devour it.

80:14    萬軍之神阿，求你迴轉，從天上垂看，眷顧這葡萄樹，
Return, we beseech thee, O God of hosts: look down from heaven, and behold, and visit this vine;

80:15    保護你右手所栽的，和你為自己所堅固的枝子。
And the vineyard which thy right hand hath planted, and the branch that thou madest strong for thyself.

80:16    這樹已經被火焚燒被刀砍伐，他們因你臉上的怒容就滅亡了。
It is burned with fire, it is cut down: they perish at the rebuke of thy countenance.

80:17    願你的手杖扶持你右邊的人，就是你為自己所堅固的人子。
Let thy hand be upon the man of thy right hand, upon the son of man whom thou madest strong for thyself.

80:18    這樣，我們便不退後離開你。求你救活我們，我們就要求告你的名。
So will not we go back from thee: quicken us, and we will call upon thy name.

80:19    耶和華萬軍之神阿，求你使我們迴轉，使你的臉發光，我們便要得救。
Turn us again, O LORD God of hosts, cause thy face to shine; and we shall be saved.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 81 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


81:1    （亞薩的詩，交與伶長，用迦特樂器）你們當向神我們的力量大聲歡呼，向雅各的神發聲歡樂，
Sing aloud unto God our strength: make a joyful noise unto the God of Jacob.

81:2    唱起詩歌，打手鼓，彈美琴與瑟。
Take a psalm, and bring hither the timbrel, the pleasant harp with the psaltery.

81:3    當在月朔，並月望，我們過節的日期，吹角。
Blow up the trumpet in the new moon, in the time appointed, on our solemn feast day.

81:4    因這是為以色列定的律例，是雅各神的典章。
For this was a statute for Israel, and a law of the God of Jacob.

81:5    他去攻擊埃及地的時候，在約瑟中間立此為證。我在那裡聽見我所不明白的言語。
This he ordained in Joseph for a testimony, when he went out through the land of Egypt: where I heard a language that I understood not.

81:6    神說，我使你的肩得脫重擔，你的手放下筐子。
I removed his shoulder from the burden: his hands were delivered from the pots.

81:7    你在急難中呼求，我就搭救你。我在雷的隱密處應允你，在米利巴水那裡試驗你。（細拉）
Thou calledst in trouble, and I delivered thee; I answered thee in the secret place of thunder: I proved thee at the waters of Meribah. Selah.

81:8    我的民哪，你當聽。我要勸戒你。以色列阿，甚願你肯聽從我。
Hear, O my people, and I will testify unto thee: O Israel, if thou wilt hearken unto me;

81:9    在你當中不可有別的神。外邦的神，你也不可下拜。
There shall no strange god be in thee; neither shalt thou worship any strange god.

81:10    我是耶和華你的神，曾把你從埃及地領上來。你要大大張口，我就給你充滿。
I am the LORD thy God, which brought thee out of the land of Egypt: open thy mouth wide, and I will fill it.

81:11    無奈我的民不聽我的聲音。以色列全不理我。
But my people would not hearken to my voice; and Israel would none of me.

81:12    我便任憑他們心裡剛硬，隨自己的計謀而行。
So I gave them up unto their own hearts' lust: and they walked in their own counsels.

81:13    甚願我的民肯聽從我，以色列肯行我的道。
Oh that my people had hearkened unto me, and Israel had walked in my ways!

81:14    我便速速治服他們的仇敵，反手攻擊他們的敵人。
I should soon have subdued their enemies, and turned my hand against their adversaries.

81:15    恨耶和華的人必來投降，但他的百姓，必永久長存。
The haters of the LORD should have submitted themselves unto him: but their time should have endured for ever.

81:16    他也必拿上好的麥子給他們吃。有拿從磐石出的蜂蜜，叫他們飽足。
He should have fed them also with the finest of the wheat: and with honey out of the rock should I have satisfied thee.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 82 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


82:1    （亞薩的詩）神站在有權力者的會中。在諸神中行審判。
God standeth in the congregation of the mighty; he judgeth among the gods.

82:2    說，你們審判不秉公義，徇惡人的情面，要到幾時呢。（細拉）
How long will ye judge unjustly, and accept the persons of the wicked? Selah.

82:3    你們當為貧寒的人和孤兒伸冤。當為困苦和窮乏的人施行公義。
Defend the poor and fatherless: do justice to the afflicted and needy.

82:4    當保護貧寒和窮乏的人，救他們脫離惡人的手。
Deliver the poor and needy: rid them out of the hand of the wicked.

82:5    你們仍不知道，也不明白，在黑暗中走來走去。地的根基都搖動了。
They know not, neither will they understand; they walk on in darkness: all the foundations of the earth are out of course.

82:6    我曾說，你們是神，都是至高者的兒子。
I have said, Ye are gods; and all of you are children of the most High.



82:7    然而你們要死，與世人一樣。要仆倒，像王子中的一位。
But ye shall die like men, and fall like one of the princes.

82:8    神阿，求你起來，審判世界。因為你要得萬邦為業。
Arise, O God, judge the earth: for thou shalt inherit all nations.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 83 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


83:1    （亞薩的詩歌）神阿，求你不要靜默。神阿，求你不要閉口，也不要不作聲。
Keep not thou silence, O God: hold not thy peace, and be not still, O God.

83:2    因為你的仇敵喧囔。恨你的抬起頭來。
For, lo, thine enemies make a tumult: and they that hate thee have lifted up the head.

83:3    他們同謀奸詐，要害你的百姓，彼此商議，要害你所隱藏的人。
They have taken crafty counsel against thy people, and consulted against thy hidden ones.

83:4    他們說，來吧，我們將他們剪滅，使他們不再成國。使以色列的名，不再被人記念。
They have said, Come, and let us cut them off from being a nation; that the name of Israel may be no more in remembrance.

83:5    他們同心商議，彼此結盟，要抵擋你。
For they have consulted together with one consent: they are confederate against thee:

83:6    就是住帳棚的以東人，和以實瑪利人。摩押和夏甲人。
The tabernacles of Edom, and the Ishmaelites; of Moab, and the Hagarenes;

83:7    迦巴勒，亞捫，和亞瑪力，非利士，並推羅的居民。
Gebal, and Ammon, and Amalek; the Philistines with the inhabitants of Tyre;

83:8    亞述也與他們連合。他們作羅得子孫的幫手。（細拉）
Assur also is joined with them: they have holpen the children of Lot. Selah.

83:9    求你待他們如待米甸，如在基順河待西西拉和耶賓一樣。
Do unto them as unto the Midianites; as to Sisera, as to Jabin, at the brook of Kison:

83:10    他們在隱多珥滅亡，成了地上的糞土。
Which perished at Endor: they became as dung for the earth.

83:11    求你叫他們的首領，像俄立和西伊伯，叫他們的王子，都像西巴和撒慕拿。
Make their nobles like Oreb, and like Zeeb: yea, all their princes as Zebah, and as Zalmunna:

83:12    他們說，我們要得神的住處，作為自己的產業。
Who said, Let us take to ourselves the houses of God in possession.

83:13    我的神阿，求你叫他們像旋風的塵土，像風前的碎秸。
O my God, make them like a wheel; as the stubble before the wind.

83:14    火怎樣焚燒樹林，火焰怎樣燒著山嶺。
As the fire burneth a wood, and as the flame setteth the mountains on fire;

83:15    求你也照樣用狂風追趕他們，用暴雨恐嚇他們。
So persecute them with thy tempest, and make them afraid with thy storm.

83:16    願你使他們滿面羞恥，好叫他們尋求你耶和華的名。
Fill their faces with shame; that they may seek thy name, O LORD.

83:17    願他們永遠羞愧驚惶。願他們慚愧滅亡。
Let them be confounded and troubled for ever; yea, let them be put to shame, and perish:

83:18    使他們知道惟獨你名為耶和華的，是全地以上的至高者。
That men may know that thou, whose name alone is JEHOVAH, art the most high over all the earth.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 84 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


84:1    （可拉後裔的詩，交與伶長，用迦特樂器）萬軍之耶和華阿，你的居所何等可愛。
How amiable are thy tabernacles, O LORD of hosts!

84:2    我羨慕渴想耶和華的院宇。我的心腸，我的肉體，向永生神呼籲（或作歡呼）。
My soul longeth, yea, even fainteth for the courts of the LORD: my heart and my flesh crieth out for the living God.

84:3    萬軍之耶和華我的王，我的神阿，在你祭壇那裡，麻雀為自己找著房屋。燕子為自己找著抱雛之窩。
Yea, the sparrow hath found an house, and the swallow a nest for herself, where she may lay her young, even thine altars, O LORD of hosts, my King, and my God.

84:4    如此住在你殿中的，便為有福。他們仍要讚美你。（細拉）
Blessed are they that dwell in thy house: they will be still praising thee. Selah.

84:5    靠你有力量心中想往錫安大道的，這人便為有福。
Blessed is the man whose strength is in thee; in whose heart are the ways of them.

84:6    他們經過流淚谷，叫這谷變為泉源之地。並有秋雨之福，蓋滿了全谷。
Who passing through the valley of Baca make it a well; the rain also filleth the pools.

84:7    他們行走，力上加力，各人到錫安朝見神。
They go from strength to strength, every one of them in Zion appeareth before God.

84:8    耶和華萬軍之神阿，求你聽我的禱告。雅各的神阿，求你留心聽。（細拉）
O LORD God of hosts, hear my prayer: give ear, O God of Jacob. Selah.

84:9    神阿，你是我們的盾牌。求你垂顧觀看你受膏者的面。
Behold, O God our shield, and look upon the face of thine anointed.

84:10    在你院宇住一日，勝似在別處住千日。寧可在我神殿中看門，不願住在惡人的帳棚裡。
For a day in thy courts is better than a thousand. I had rather be a doorkeeper in the house of my God, than to dwell in the tents of wickedness.

84:11    因為耶和華神是日頭，是盾牌，要賜下恩惠和榮耀。他未嘗留下一樣好處，不給那些行動正直的人。
For the LORD God is a sun and shield: the LORD will give grace and glory: no good thing will he withhold from them that walk uprightly.

84:12    萬軍之耶和華阿，倚靠你的人，便為有福。
O LORD of hosts, blessed is the man that trusteth in thee.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 85 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


85:1    （可拉後裔的詩，交與伶長）耶和華阿，你已經向你的地施恩，救回被擄的雅各。
Lord, thou hast been favourable unto thy land: thou hast brought back the captivity of Jacob.

85:2    你赦免了你百姓的罪孽，遮蓋了他們一切的過犯。（細拉）
Thou hast forgiven the iniquity of thy people, thou hast covered all their sin. Selah.

85:3    你收轉了所發的忿怒，和你猛烈的怒氣。
Thou hast taken away all thy wrath: thou hast turned thyself from the fierceness of thine anger.

85:4    拯救我們的神阿，求你使我們迴轉，叫你的惱恨向我們止息。
Turn us, O God of our salvation, and cause thine anger toward us to cease.

85:5    你要向我們發怒到永遠嗎，你要將你的怒氣延留到萬代嗎。
Wilt thou be angry with us for ever? wilt thou draw out thine anger to all generations?

85:6    你不再將我們救活，使你的百姓靠你歡喜嗎。
Wilt thou not revive us again: that thy people may rejoice in thee?

85:7    耶和華阿，求你使我們得見你的慈愛，又將你的救恩賜給我們。
Shew us thy mercy, O LORD, and grant us thy salvation.

85:8    我要聽神耶和華所說的話。因為他必應許將平安賜給他的百姓，他的聖民。他們卻不可再轉去妄行。
I will hear what God the LORD will speak: for he will speak peace unto his people, and to his saints: but let them not turn again to folly.

85:9    他的救恩，誠然與敬畏他的人相近，叫榮耀住在我們的地上。
Surely his salvation is nigh them that fear him; that glory may dwell in our land.

85:10    慈愛和誠實，彼此相遇。公義和平安，彼此相親。
Mercy and truth are met together; righteousness and peace have kissed each other.

85:11    誠實從地而生，公義從天而現。
Truth shall spring out of the earth; and righteousness shall look down from heaven.

85:12    耶和華必將好處賜給我們。我們的地，也要多出土產。
Yea, the LORD shall give that which is good; and our land shall yield her increase.

85:13    公義要行在他面前，叫他的腳蹤，成為可走的路。
Righteousness shall go before him; and shall set us in the way of his steps.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 86 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


86:1    （大衛的祈禱）耶和華阿，求你側耳應允我，因我是困苦窮乏的。
Bow down thine ear, O LORD, hear me: for I am poor and needy.

86:2    求你儲存我的性命。因我是虔誠人。我的神阿，求你拯救這倚靠你的僕人。
Preserve my soul; for I am holy: O thou my God, save thy servant that trusteth in thee.

86:3    主阿，求你憐憫我，因我終日求告你。
Be merciful unto me, O Lord: for I cry unto thee daily.

86:4    主阿，求你使僕人心裡歡喜。因為我的心仰望你。
Rejoice the soul of thy servant: for unto thee, O Lord, do I lift up my soul.

86:5    主阿，你本為良善，樂意饒恕人，有豐盛的慈愛，賜給凡求告你的人。
For thou, Lord, art good, and ready to forgive; and plenteous in mercy unto all them that call upon thee.

86:6    耶和華阿，求你留心聽我的禱告，垂聽我懇求的聲音。
Give ear, O LORD, unto my prayer; and attend to the voice of my supplications.

86:7    我在患難之日要求告你。因為你必應允我。
In the day of my trouble I will call upon thee: for thou wilt answer me.

86:8    主阿，諸神之中，沒有可比你的。你的作為也無可比。
Among the gods there is none like unto thee, O Lord; neither are there any works like unto thy works.

86:9    主阿，你所造的萬民，都要來敬拜你。他們也要榮耀你的名。
All nations whom thou hast made shall come and worship before thee, O Lord; and shall glorify thy name.

86:10    因你為大，且行奇妙的事。惟獨你是神。
For thou art great, and doest wondrous things: thou art God alone.

86:11    耶和華阿，求你將你的道指教我。我要照你的真理行。求你使我專心敬畏你的名。
Teach me thy way, O LORD; I will walk in thy truth: unite my heart to fear thy name.

86:12    主我的神阿，我要一心稱讚你。我要榮耀你的名，直到永遠。
I will praise thee, O Lord my God, with all my heart: and I will glorify thy name for evermore.

86:13    因為你向我發的慈愛是大的。你救了我的靈魂，免入極深的陰間。
For great is thy mercy toward me: and thou hast delivered my soul from the lowest hell.

86:14    神阿，驕傲的人起來攻擊我，又有一黨強橫的人尋索我的命。他們沒有將你放在眼中。
O God, the proud are risen against me, and the assemblies of violent men have sought after my soul; and have not set thee before them.

86:15    主阿，你是有憐憫有恩典的神，不輕易發怒，並有豐盛的慈愛和誠實。
But thou, O Lord, art a God full of compassion, and gracious, long suffering, and plenteous in mercy and truth.

86:16    求你向我轉臉，憐恤我，將你的力量賜給僕人，救你婢女的兒子。
O turn unto me, and have mercy upon me; give thy strength unto thy servant, and save the son of thine handmaid.

86:17    求你向我顯出恩待我的憑據，叫恨我的人看見，便羞愧，因為你耶和華幫助我，安慰我。
Shew me a token for good; that they which hate me may see it, and be ashamed: because thou, LORD, hast holpen me, and comforted me.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 87 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


87:1    （可拉後裔的詩歌）耶和華所立的根基在聖山上。
His foundation is in the holy mountains.

87:2    他愛錫安的門，勝於愛雅各一切的住處。
The LORD loveth the gates of Zion more than all the dwellings of Jacob.

87:3    神的城阿，有榮耀的事乃指著你說的。（細拉）
Glorious things are spoken of thee, O city of God. Selah.

87:4    我要題起拉哈伯，和巴比倫人是在認識我之中的，看哪，非利士，和推羅，並古實人，個個生在那裡。
I will make mention of Rahab and Babylon to them that know me: behold Philistia, and Tyre, with Ethiopia; this man was born there.

87:5    論到錫安必說，這一個那一個都生在其中。而且至高者必親自堅立這城。
And of Zion it shall be said, This and that man was born in her: and the highest himself shall establish her.

87:6    當耶和華記錄萬民的時候，他要點出這一個生在那裡。（細拉）
The LORD shall count, when he writeth up the people, that this man was born there. Selah.

87:7    歌唱的，跳舞的，都要說，我的泉源都在你這裡。
As well the singers as the players on instruments shall be there: all my springs are in thee.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 88 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


88:1    （可拉後裔的詩歌，就是以斯拉人希幔的訓誨詩，交與伶長，呼叫麻哈拉利暗俄）耶和華拯救我的神阿，我晝夜在你面前呼籲。
O LORD God of my salvation, I have cried day and night before thee:

88:2    願我的禱告達到你面前。求你側耳聽我的呼求。
Let my prayer come before thee: incline thine ear unto my cry;

88:3    因為我心裡滿了患難，我的性命臨近陰間。
For my soul is full of troubles: and my life draweth nigh unto the grave.

88:4    我算和下坑的人同列，如無力的人一樣。（無力或作沒有幫助）
I am counted with them that go down into the pit: I am as a man that hath no strength:

88:5    我被丟在死人中，好像被殺的人，躺在墳墓裡。他們是你不再記念的，與你隔絕了。
Free among the dead, like the slain that lie in the grave, whom thou rememberest no more: and they are cut off from thy hand.

88:6    你把我放在極深的坑裡，在黑暗地方，在深處。
Thou hast laid me in the lowest pit, in darkness, in the deeps.

88:7    你的忿怒重壓我身。你用一切的波浪困住我。（細拉）
Thy wrath lieth hard upon me, and thou hast afflicted me with all thy waves. Selah.

88:8    你把我所認識的隔在遠處，使我為他們所憎惡。我被拘困，不得出來。
Thou hast put away mine acquaintance far from me; thou hast made me an abomination unto them: I am shut up, and I cannot come forth.

88:9    我的眼睛，因困苦而乾癟。耶和華阿，我天天求告你，向你舉手。
Mine eye mourneth by reason of affliction: LORD, I have called daily upon thee, I have stretched out my hands unto thee.

88:10    你豈要行奇事給死人看嗎。難道陰魂還能起來稱讚你嗎。（細拉）
Wilt thou shew wonders to the dead? shall the dead arise and praise thee? Selah.

88:11    豈能在墳墓裡述說你的慈愛嗎。豈能在滅亡中述說你的信實嗎。
Shall thy lovingkindness be declared in the grave? or thy faithfulness in destruction?

88:12    你的奇事，豈能在幽暗裡被知道嗎。你的公義，豈能在忘記之地被知道嗎。
Shall thy wonders be known in the dark? and thy righteousness in the land of forgetfulness?

88:13    耶和華阿，我呼求你。我早晨的禱告要達到你面前。
But unto thee have I cried, O LORD; and in the morning shall my prayer prevent thee.

88:14    耶和華阿，你為何丟棄我。為何掩面不顧我。
LORD, why castest thou off my soul? why hidest thou thy face from me?

88:15    我自幼受苦，幾呼死亡。我受你的驚恐，甚至慌張。
I am afflicted and ready to die from my youth up: while I suffer thy terrors I am distracted.

88:16    你的烈怒漫過我身。你的驚嚇，把我剪除。
Thy fierce wrath goeth over me; thy terrors have cut me off.



88:17    這些終日如水環繞我，一齊都來圍困我。
They came round about me daily like water; they compassed me about together.

88:18    你把我的良朋密友隔在遠處，使我所認識的人，進入黑暗裡。
Lover and friend hast thou put far from me, and mine acquaintance into darkness.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 89 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


89:1    （以斯拉人以探的訓誨詩）我要歌唱耶和華的慈愛，直到永遠。我要用口將你的信實傳與萬代。
I will sing of the mercies of the LORD for ever: with my mouth will I make known thy faithfulness to all generations.

89:2    因我曾說，你的慈悲，必建立到永遠。你的信實，必堅立在天上。
For I have said, Mercy shall be built up for ever: thy faithfulness shalt thou establish in the very heavens.

89:3    我與我所揀選的人立了約，向我的僕人大衛起了誓。
I have made a covenant with my chosen, I have sworn unto David my servant,

89:4    我要建立你的後裔，直到永遠，要建立你的寶座，直到萬代。
Thy seed will I establish for ever, and build up thy throne to all generations. Selah.

89:5    耶和華阿，諸天要稱讚你的奇事。在聖者的會中，要稱讚你的信實。
And the heavens shall praise thy wonders, O LORD: thy faithfulness also in the congregation of the saints.

89:6    在天空誰能比耶和華呢。神的眾子中，誰能像耶和華呢。
For who in the heaven can be compared unto the LORD? who among the sons of the mighty can be likened unto the LORD?

89:7    他在聖者的會中，是大有威嚴的神，比一切在他四圍的更可畏懼。
God is greatly to be feared in the assembly of the saints, and to be had in reverence of all them that are about him.

89:8    耶和華萬軍之神阿，那一個大能者像你耶和華。你的信實，是在你的四圍。
O LORD God of hosts, who is a strong LORD like unto thee? or to thy faithfulness round about thee?

89:9    你管轄海的狂傲。波浪翻騰，你就使他平靜了。
Thou rulest the raging of the sea: when the waves thereof arise, thou stillest them.

89:10    你打碎了拉哈伯似乎是已殺的人。你用有能的膀臂打散了你的仇敵。
Thou hast broken Rahab in pieces, as one that is slain; thou hast scattered thine enemies with thy strong arm.

89:11    天屬你，地也屬你。世界和其中所充滿的，都為你所建立。
The heavens are thine, the earth also is thine: as for the world and the fulness thereof, thou hast founded them.

89:12    南北為你所創造。他泊和黑門都因你的名歡呼。
The north and the south thou hast created them: Tabor and Hermon shall rejoice in thy name.

89:13    你有大能的膀臂。你的手有力，你的右手也高舉。
Thou hast a mighty arm: strong is thy hand, and high is thy right hand.

89:14    公義和公平，是你寶座的根基。慈愛和誠實，行在你前面。
Justice and judgment are the habitation of thy throne: mercy and truth shall go before thy face.

89:15    知道向你歡呼的，那民是有福的。耶和華阿，他們在你臉上的光裡行走。
Blessed is the people that know the joyful sound: they shall walk, O LORD, in the light of thy countenance.

89:16    他們因你的名終日歡樂，因你的公義得以高舉。
In thy name shall they rejoice all the day: and in thy righteousness shall they be exalted.

89:17    你是他們力量的榮耀。因為你喜悅我們，我們的角必被高舉。
For thou art the glory of their strength: and in thy favour our horn shall be exalted.

89:18    我們的盾牌屬耶和華。我們的王屬以色列的聖者。
For the LORD is our defence; and the Holy One of Israel is our king.

89:19    當時你在異象中曉諭你的聖民，說，我以把救助之力，加在有能者的身上。我高舉那從民中所揀選的
Then thou spakest in vision to thy holy one, and saidst, I have laid help upon one that is mighty; I have exalted one chosen out of the people.

89:20    我尋得我的僕人大衛，用我的聖膏膏他。
I have found David my servant; with my holy oil have I anointed him:

89:21    我的手必使他豎立。我的膀臂也必堅固他。
With whom my hand shall be established: mine arm also shall strengthen him.

89:22    仇敵必不勒索他，凶惡之子，也不苦害他。
The enemy shall not exact upon him; nor the son of wickedness afflict him.

89:23    我要在他面前打碎他的敵人，擊殺那恨他的人。
And I will beat down his foes before his face, and plague them that hate him.

89:24    只是我的信實，和我的慈愛，要與他同在。因我的名，他的角必被高舉。
But my faithfulness and my mercy shall be with him: and in my name shall his horn be exalted.

89:25    我要使他的左手伸到海上，右手伸到河上。
I will set his hand also in the sea, and his right hand in the rivers.

89:26    他要稱呼我說，你是我的父是我的神，是拯救我的磐石。
He shall cry unto me, Thou art my father, my God, and the rock of my salvation.

89:27    我也要立他為長子，為世上最高的君王。
Also I will make him my firstborn, higher than the kings of the earth.

89:28    我要為他存留我的慈愛，直到永遠。我與他立的約，必要堅定。
My mercy will I keep for him for evermore, and my covenant shall stand fast with him.

89:29    我也要使他的後裔，存到永遠，使他的寶座，如天之久。
His seed also will I make to endure for ever, and his throne as the days of heaven.

89:30    倘若他的子孫離棄我的律法，不照我的典章行。
If his children forsake my law, and walk not in my judgments;

89:31    背棄我的律例，不遵守我的誡命。
If they break my statutes, and keep not my commandments;

89:32    我就要用杖責罰他們的過犯，用鞭責罰他們的罪孽。
Then will I visit their transgression with the rod, and their iniquity with stripes.

89:33    只是我必不將我的慈愛，全然收回，也必不叫我的信實廢棄。
Nevertheless my lovingkindness will I not utterly take from him, nor suffer my faithfulness to fail.



89:34    我必不背棄我的約，也不改變我口中所出的。
My covenant will I not break, nor alter the thing that is gone out of my lips.

89:35    我一次指著自己的聖潔起誓。我決不向大衛說謊。
Once have I sworn by my holiness that I will not lie unto David.

89:36    他的後裔要存到永遠，他的寶座在我面前，如日之恆一般。
His seed shall endure for ever, and his throne as the sun before me.

89:37    又如月亮永遠堅立，如天上確實的見證。（細拉）
It shall be established for ever as the moon, and as a faithful witness in heaven. Selah.

89:38    但你惱怒你的受膏者，就丟掉棄絕他。
But thou hast cast off and abhorred, thou hast been wroth with thine anointed.

89:39    你厭惡了與僕人所立的約，將他的冠冕踐踏於地。
Thou hast made void the covenant of thy servant: thou hast profaned his crown by casting it to the ground.

89:40    你拆毀了他一切的籬笆。使他的保障，變為荒場。
Thou hast broken down all his hedges; thou hast brought his strong holds to ruin.

89:41    凡過路的人，都搶奪他。他成為鄰邦的羞辱。
All that pass by the way spoil him: he is a reproach to his neighbours.

89:42    你高舉了他敵人的右手。你叫他一切的仇敵歡喜。
Thou hast set up the right hand of his adversaries; thou hast made all his enemies to rejoice.

89:43    你叫他的刀劍捲刃，叫他在爭戰之中站立不住。
Thou hast also turned the edge of his sword, and hast not made him to stand in the battle.

89:44    你使他的光輝止息，將他的寶座推倒於地。
Thou hast made his glory to cease, and cast his throne down to the ground.

89:45    你減少他青年的日子。又使他蒙羞。（細拉）
The days of his youth hast thou shortened: thou hast covered him with shame. Selah.

89:46    耶和華阿，這要到幾時呢。你要將自己隱藏到永遠嗎。你的忿怒如火焚燒，要到幾時呢。
How long, LORD? wilt thou hide thyself for ever? shall thy wrath burn like fire?

89:47    求你想念我的時候是何等的短少。你創造世人，要使他們歸何等的虛空呢。（細拉）
Remember how short my time is: wherefore hast thou made all men in vain?

89:48    誰能常活免死，救他的靈魂脫離陰間的權柄呢。（細拉）
What man is he that liveth, and shall not see death? shall he deliver his soul from the hand of the grave? Selah.

89:49    主阿，你從前憑你的信實向大衛立誓，要施行的慈愛在那裡呢。
Lord, where are thy former lovingkindnesses, which thou swarest unto David in thy truth?

89:50    主阿，求你記念僕人們所受的羞辱，記念我怎樣將一切強盛民的羞辱存在我懷裡。
Remember, Lord, the reproach of thy servants; how I do bear in my bosom the reproach of all the mighty people;

89:51    耶和華阿，你的仇敵，用這羞辱，羞辱了你的僕人，羞辱了你受膏者的腳蹤。
Wherewith thine enemies have reproached, O LORD; wherewith they have reproached the footsteps of thine anointed.

89:52    耶和華是應當稱頌的，直到永遠。阿們，阿們。
Blessed be the LORD for evermore. Amen, and Amen.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 90 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


90:1    （神人摩西的祈禱）主阿，你世世代代作我們的居所。
Lord, thou hast been our dwelling place in all generations.

90:2    諸山未曾生出，地與世界你未曾造成，從亙古到永遠，你是神。
Before the mountains were brought forth, or ever thou hadst formed the earth and the world, even from everlasting to everlasting, thou art God.

90:3    你使人歸於塵土，說，你們世人要歸回。
Thou turnest man to destruction; and sayest, Return, ye children of men.

90:4    在你看來，千年如已過的昨日，又如夜間的一更。
For a thousand years in thy sight are but as yesterday when it is past, and as a watch in the night.

90:5    你教他們如水衝去。他們如睡一覺。早晨他們如生長的草。
Thou carriest them away as with a flood; they are as a sleep: in the morning they are like grass which groweth up.

90:6    早晨發芽生長，晚上割下枯乾。
In the morning it flourisheth, and groweth up; in the evening it is cut down, and withereth.

90:7    我們因你的怒氣而消滅，因你的忿怒而驚惶。
For we are consumed by thine anger, and by thy wrath are we troubled.

90:8    你將我們的罪孽擺在你面前，將我們的隱惡擺在你面光之中。
Thou hast set our iniquities before thee, our secret sins in the light of thy countenance.

90:9    我們經過的日子，都在你震怒之下。我們度盡的年歲好像一聲嘆息。
For all our days are passed away in thy wrath: we spend our years as a tale that is told.

90:10    我們一生的年日是七十歲。若是強壯可到八十歲。但其中所矜誇的，不過是勞苦愁煩。轉眼成空，我們便如飛而去。
The days of our years are threescore years and ten; and if by reason of strength they be fourscore years, yet is their strength labour and sorrow; for it is soon cut off, and we fly away.

90:11    誰曉得你怒氣的權勢，誰按著你該受的敬畏曉得你的忿怒呢。
Who knoweth the power of thine anger? even according to thy fear, so is thy wrath.

90:12    求你指教我們怎樣數算自己的日子，好叫我們得著智慧的心。
So teach us to number our days, that we may apply our hearts unto wisdom.

90:13    耶和華阿，我們要等到幾時呢。求你轉回，為你的僕人後悔。
Return, O LORD, how long? and let it repent thee concerning thy servants.

90:14    求你使我們早早飽得你的慈愛，好叫我們一生一世歡呼喜樂。
O satisfy us early with thy mercy; that we may rejoice and be glad all our days.

90:15    求你照著你使我們受苦的日子，和我們遭難的年歲，叫我們喜樂。
Make us glad according to the days wherein thou hast afflicted us, and the years wherein we have seen evil.

90:16    願你的作為向你僕人顯現。願你的榮耀向他們子孫顯明。
Let thy work appear unto thy servants, and thy glory unto their children.



90:17    願主我們神的榮美，歸與我們身上。願你堅立我們手所作的工。我們手所作的工，願你堅立。
And let the beauty of the LORD our God be upon us: and establish thou the work of our hands upon us; yea, the work of our hands establish thou it.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 91 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


91:1    住在至高者隱密處的，必住在全能者的蔭下。
He that dwelleth in the secret place of the most High shall abide under the shadow of the Almighty.

91:2    我要論到耶和華說，他是我的避難所，是我的山寨，是我的神，是我所倚靠的。
I will say of the LORD, He is my refuge and my fortress: my God; in him will I trust.

91:3    他必救你脫離捕鳥人的網羅，和毒害的瘟疫。
Surely he shall deliver thee from the snare of the fowler, and from the noisome pestilence.

91:4    他必用自己的翎毛遮蔽你。你要投靠在他的翅膀底下。他的誠實，是大小的盾牌。
He shall cover thee with his feathers, and under his wings shalt thou trust: his truth shall be thy shield and buckler.

91:5    你必不怕黑夜的驚駭，或是白日飛的箭。
Thou shalt not be afraid for the terror by night; nor for the arrow that flieth by day;

91:6    也不怕黑夜行的瘟疫，或是午間滅人的毒病。
Nor for the pestilence that walketh in darkness; nor for the destruction that wasteth at noonday.

91:7    雖有千人仆倒在你旁邊，萬人仆倒在你右邊，這災卻不得臨近你。
A thousand shall fall at thy side, and ten thousand at thy right hand; but it shall not come nigh thee.

91:8    你惟親眼觀看，見惡人遭報。
Only with thine eyes shalt thou behold and see the reward of the wicked.

91:9    耶和華是我的避難所。你已將至高者當你的居所。
Because thou hast made the LORD, which is my refuge, even the most High, thy habitation;

91:10    禍患必不臨到你，災害也不挨近你的帳棚。
There shall no evil befall thee, neither shall any plague come nigh thy dwelling.

91:11    因他要為你吩咐他的使者，在你行的一切道路上保護你。
For he shall give his angels charge over thee, to keep thee in all thy ways.

91:12    他們要用手託著你，免得你的腳碰在石頭上。
They shall bear thee up in their hands, lest thou dash thy foot against a stone.

91:13    你要踹在獅子和虺蛇的身上，踐踏少壯獅子和大蛇。
Thou shalt tread upon the lion and adder: the young lion and the dragon shalt thou trample under feet.

91:14    神說，因為他專心愛我，我就搭救他。因為他知道我的名，我要把他安置在高處。
Because he hath set his love upon me, therefore will I deliver him: I will set him on high, because he hath known my name.

91:15    他若求告我，我就應允他。他在急難中，我要與他同在。我要搭救他，使他尊貴。
He shall call upon me, and I will answer him: I will be with him in trouble; I will deliver him, and honour him.

91:16    我要使他足享長壽，將我的救恩顯明給他。
With long life will I satisfy him, and shew him my salvation.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 92 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


92:1    （安息日的詩歌）稱謝耶和華，歌頌你至高者的名。
IT IS A GOOD THING TO GIVE THANKS UNTO THE LORD, AND TO SING PRAISES UNTO THY NAME, O MOST HIGH:

92:2    用十弦的樂器和瑟，用琴彈幽雅的聲音，
To shew forth thy lovingkindness in the morning, and thy faithfulness every night,

92:3    早晨傳楊你的慈愛，每夜傳楊你的信實，這本為美事。
Upon an instrument of ten strings, and upon the psaltery; upon the harp with a solemn sound.



92:4    因你耶和華藉著你的作為，叫我高興。我要因你手的工作歡呼。
For thou, LORD, hast made me glad through thy work: I will triumph in the works of thy hands.

92:5    耶和華阿，你的工作何其大，你的心思極其深。
O LORD, how great are thy works! and thy thoughts are very deep.

92:6    畜類人不曉得，愚頑人也不明白。
A brutish man knoweth not; neither doth a fool understand this.

92:7    惡人茂盛如草，一切作孽之人發旺的時候，正是他們要滅亡，直到永遠。
When the wicked spring as the grass, and when all the workers of iniquity do flourish; it is that they shall be destroyed for ever:

92:8    惟你耶和華是至高，直到永遠。
But thou, LORD, art most high for evermore.

92:9    耶和華阿，你的仇敵都要滅亡，一切作孽的也要離散。
For, lo, thine enemies, O LORD, for, lo, thine enemies shall perish; all the workers of iniquity shall be scattered.

92:10    你卻高舉了我的角，如野牛的角。我是被新油膏了的。
But my horn shalt thou exalt like the horn of an unicorn: I shall be anointed with fresh oil.

92:11    我眼睛看見仇敵遭報，我耳朵聽見那些起來攻擊我的惡人受罰。
Mine eye also shall see my desire on mine enemies, and mine ears shall hear my desire of the wicked that rise up against me.

92:12    義人要發旺如棕樹，生長如黎巴嫩的香柏樹。
The righteous shall flourish like the palm tree: he shall grow like a cedar in Lebanon.

92:13    他們栽於耶和華的殿中，發旺在我們神的院裡。
Those that be planted in the house of the LORD shall flourish in the courts of our God.



92:14    他們年老的時候，仍要結果子。要滿了汁漿而常發青。
They shall still bring forth fruit in old age; they shall be fat and flourishing;

92:15    好顯明耶和華是正直的，他是我的磐石，在他毫無不義。
To shew that the LORD is upright: he is my rock, and there is no unrighteousness in him.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 93 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


93:1    耶和華作王。他以威嚴為衣穿上。耶和華以能力為衣，以能力束腰。世界就堅定，不得動搖。
The LORD reigneth, he is clothed with majesty; the LORD is clothed with strength, wherewith he hath girded himself: the world also is stablished, that it cannot be moved.

93:2    你的寶座從太初立定。你從亙古就有。
Thy throne is established of old: thou art from everlasting.

93:3    耶和華阿，大水楊起，大水發聲，波浪澎湃。
The floods have lifted up, O LORD, the floods have lifted up their voice; the floods lift up their waves.

93:4    耶和華在高處大有能力，勝過諸水的響聲，洋海的大浪。
The LORD on high is mightier than the noise of many waters, yea, than the mighty waves of the sea.

93:5    耶和華阿，你的法度最的確。你的殿永稱為聖，是合宜的。
Thy testimonies are very sure: holiness becometh thine house, O LORD, for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 94 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


94:1    耶和華阿，你是伸冤的神。伸冤的神阿，求你發出光來。
O Lord God, to whom vengeance belongeth; O God, to whom vengeance belongeth, shew thyself.

94:2    審判世界的主阿，求你挺身而立，使驕傲人受應得的報應。
Lift up thyself, thou judge of the earth: render a reward to the proud.

94:3    耶和華阿，惡人誇勝要到幾時呢，要到幾時呢。
LORD, how long shall the wicked, how long shall the wicked triumph?

94:4    他們絮絮叨叨，說傲慢的話。一切作孽的人，都自己誇張。
How long shall they utter and speak hard things? and all the workers of iniquity boast themselves?

94:5    耶和華阿，他們強壓你的百姓，苦害你的產業。
They break in pieces thy people, O LORD, and afflict thine heritage.

94:6    他們殺死寡婦和寄居的，又殺害孤兒。
They slay the widow and the stranger, and murder the fatherless.

94:7    他們說，耶和華必不看見，雅各的神必不思念。
Yet they say, The LORD shall not see, neither shall the God of Jacob regard it.

94:8    你們民間的畜類人當思想。你們愚頑人，到幾時才有智慧呢。
Understand, ye brutish among the people: and ye fools, when will ye be wise?

94:9    造耳朵的，難道自己不聽見嗎。造眼睛的，難道自己不看見嗎。
He that planted the ear, shall he not hear? he that formed the eye, shall he not see?

94:10    管教列邦的，就是叫人得知識的，難道自己不懲治人嗎。
He that chastiseth the heathen, shall not he correct? he that teacheth man knowledge, shall not he know?

94:11    耶和華知道人的意念是虛妄的。
The LORD knoweth the thoughts of man, that they are vanity.

94:12    耶和華阿，你所管教，用律法所教訓的人，是有福的。
Blessed is the man whom thou chastenest, O LORD, and teachest him out of thy law;

94:13    你使他在遭難的日子，得享平安。惟有惡人陷在所挖的坑中。
That thou mayest give him rest from the days of adversity, until the pit be digged for the wicked.

94:14    因為耶和華必不丟棄他的百姓，也不離棄他的產業。
For the LORD will not cast off his people, neither will he forsake his inheritance.

94:15    審判要轉向公義。心裡正直的，必都隨從。
But judgment shall return unto righteousness: and all the upright in heart shall follow it.

94:16    誰肯為我起來攻擊作惡的。誰肯為我站起抵擋作孽的。
Who will rise up for me against the evildoers? or who will stand up for me against the workers of iniquity?

94:17    若不是耶和華幫助我，我就住在寂靜之中了。
Unless the LORD had been my help, my soul had almost dwelt in silence.

94:18    我正說我失了腳，耶和華阿，那時你的慈愛扶助我。
When I said, My foot slippeth; thy mercy, O LORD, held me up.

94:19    我心裡多憂多疑，你安慰我，就使我歡樂。
In the multitude of my thoughts within me thy comforts delight my soul.

94:20    那藉著律例架弄殘害，在位上行奸惡的，豈能與你相交嗎。
Shall the throne of iniquity have fellowship with thee, which frameth mischief by a law?

94:21    他們大家聚集攻擊義人，將無辜的人定為死罪。
They gather themselves together against the soul of the righteous, and condemn the innocent blood.

94:22    但耶和華向來作了我的高臺。我的神作了我投靠的磐石。
But the LORD is my defence; and my God is the rock of my refuge.

94:23    他叫他們的罪孽歸到他們身上。他們正在行惡之中，他要剪除他們。耶和華我們的神要把他們剪除。
And he shall bring upon them their own iniquity, and shall cut them off in their own wickedness; yea, the LORD our God shall cut them off.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 95 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


95:1    來阿，我們要向耶和華歌唱，向拯救我們的磐石歡呼。
O come, let us sing unto the LORD: let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation.

95:2    我們要來感謝他，用詩歌向他歡呼。
Let us come before his presence with thanksgiving, and make a joyful noise unto him with psalms.

95:3    因耶和華為大神，為大王，超乎萬神之上。
For the LORD is a great God, and a great King above all gods.

95:4    地的深處在他手中。山的高峰也屬他。
In his hand are the deep places of the earth: the strength of the hills is his also.

95:5    海洋屬他。是他造的。旱地也是他手造成的。
The sea is his, and he made it: and his hands formed the dry land.

95:6    來阿，我們要屈身敬拜，在造我們的耶和華面前跪下。
O come, let us worship and bow down: let us kneel before the LORD our maker.

95:7    因為他是我們的神。我們是他草場的羊，是他手下的民。惟願你們今天聽他的話。
For he is our God; and we are the people of his pasture, and the sheep of his hand. To day if ye will hear his voice,

95:8    你們不可硬著心，像當日在米利巴，就是在曠野的瑪撒。
Harden not your heart, as in the provocation, and as in the day of temptation in the wilderness:

95:9    那時你們的祖宗試我探我，並且觀看我的作為。
When your fathers tempted me, proved me, and saw my work.

95:10    四十年之久，我厭煩那世代，說，這是心裡迷糊的百姓，竟不曉得我的作為。
Forty years long was I grieved with this generation, and said, It is a people that do err in their heart, and they have not known my ways:

95:11    所以我在怒中起誓，說，他們斷不可進入我的安息。
Unto whom I sware in my wrath that they should not enter into my rest.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 96 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


96:1    你們要向耶和華唱新歌。全地都要向耶和華歌唱。
O sing unto the LORD a new song: sing unto the LORD, all the earth.

96:2    要向耶和華歌唱，稱頌他的名，天天傳楊他的救恩。
Sing unto the LORD, bless his name; shew forth his salvation from day to day.

96:3    在列邦中述說他的榮耀，在萬民中述說他的奇事。
Declare his glory among the heathen, his wonders among all people.

96:4    因耶和華為大，當受極大的讚美。他在萬神之上當受敬畏。
For the LORD is great, and greatly to be praised: he is to be feared above all gods.

96:5    外邦的神都屬虛無。惟獨耶和華創造諸天。
For all the gods of the nations are idols: but the LORD made the heavens.

96:6    有尊榮和威嚴在他面前。有能力與華美在他聖所。
Honour and majesty are before him: strength and beauty are in his sanctuary.

96:7    民中的萬族阿，你們要將榮耀能力歸給耶和華，都歸給耶和華。
Give unto the LORD, O ye kindreds of the people, give unto the LORD glory and strength.

96:8    要將耶和華的名所當得的榮耀歸給他，拿供物來進入他的院宇。
Give unto the LORD the glory due unto his name: bring an offering, and come into his courts.

96:9    當以聖潔的妝飾的或作為，敬拜耶和華。全地要在他面前山抖。
O worship the LORD in the beauty of holiness: fear before him, all the earth.

96:10    人在列邦中要說，耶和華作王，世界就堅定，不得動搖。他要按公正審判眾民。
Say among the heathen that the LORD reigneth: the world also shall be established that it shall not be moved: he shall judge the people righteously.

96:11    願天歡喜，願地快樂。願海和其中所充滿的澎湃。
Let the heavens rejoice, and let the earth be glad; let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof.

96:12    願田和其中所有的都歡樂。那時林中的樹木，都要在耶和華面前歡呼。
Let the field be joyful, and all that is therein: then shall all the trees of the wood rejoice

96:13    因為他來了。他來要審判全地。他要按公義審判世界，按他的信實審判萬民。
Before the LORD: for he cometh, for he cometh to judge the earth: he shall judge the world with righteousness, and the people with his truth.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 97 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


97:1    耶和華作王。願地快樂，願眾海島歡喜。
The LORD reigneth; let the earth rejoice; let the multitude of isles be glad thereof.

97:2    密雲和幽暗，在他的四圍。公義和公平，是他寶座的根基。
Clouds and darkness are round about him: righteousness and judgment are the habitation of his throne.

97:3    有烈火在他前頭行，燒滅他四圍的敵人。
A fire goeth before him, and burneth up his enemies round about.

97:4    他的閃電光照世界。大地看見便震動。
His lightnings enlightened the world: the earth saw, and trembled.

97:5    諸山見耶和華的面，就是全地之主的面，便消化如臘。
The hills melted like wax at the presence of the LORD, at the presence of the Lord of the whole earth.

97:6    諸天表明他的公義，萬民看見他的榮耀。
The heavens declare his righteousness, and all the people see his glory.

97:7    願一切事奉雕刻的偶像，靠虛無之神自誇的，都蒙羞愧。萬神哪，你們都當拜他。
Confounded be all they that serve graven images, that boast themselves of idols: worship him, all ye gods.

97:8    耶和華阿，錫安聽見你的判斷，就歡喜，猶大的城邑原文作女子，也都快樂。
Zion heard, and was glad; and the daughters of Judah rejoiced because of thy judgments, O LORD.

97:9    因為你耶和華至高超乎全地。你被尊崇，遠超萬神之上。
For thou, LORD, art high above all the earth: thou art exalted far above all gods.

97:10    你們愛耶和華的，都當恨惡罪惡。他保護聖民的性命，搭救他們脫離惡人的手。
Ye that love the LORD, hate evil: he preserveth the souls of his saints; he delivereth them out of the hand of the wicked.

97:11    散佈亮光，是為義人。預備喜樂，是為正直人。
Light is sown for the righteous, and gladness for the upright in heart.

97:12    你們義人當靠耶和華歡喜，稱謝他可記念的聖名。
Rejoice in the LORD, ye righteous; and give thanks at the remembrance of his holiness.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 98 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


98:1    （一篇詩）你們要向耶和華唱新歌。因為他行過奇妙的事。他的右手和聖臂，施行救恩。
O sing unto the LORD a new song; for he hath done marvellous things: his right hand, and his holy arm, hath gotten him the victory.

98:2    耶和華髮明瞭他的救恩，在列邦人眼前顯出公義。
The LORD hath made known his salvation: his righteousness hath he openly shewed in the sight of the heathen.

98:3    記念他向以色列家所發的慈愛，所憑的信實。地的四極，都看見我們神的救恩。
He hath remembered his mercy and his truth toward the house of Israel: all the ends of the earth have seen the salvation of our God.

98:4    全地都要向耶和華歡樂。要發起大聲歡呼歌頌。
Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all the earth: make a loud noise, and rejoice, and sing praise.

98:5    要用琴歌頌耶和華，用琴和詩歌的聲音歌頌他。
Sing unto the LORD with the harp; with the harp, and the voice of a psalm.

98:6    用號和角聲，在大君王耶和華面前歡呼。
With trumpets and sound of cornet make a joyful noise before the LORD, the King.

98:7    願海和其中所充滿的澎湃。世界和住在其間的，也要發聲。
Let the sea roar, and the fulness thereof; the world, and they that dwell therein.

98:8    願大水拍手。願諸山在耶和華面前一同歡呼。
Let the floods clap their hands: let the hills be joyful together

98:9    因為他來，要審判遍地。他要按公義審判世界，按公正審判萬民。
Before the LORD; for he cometh to judge the earth: with righteousness shall he judge the world, and the people with equity.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 99 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


99:1    耶和華作王，萬民當戰抖。他坐在二基路伯上，地當動搖。
The LORD reigneth; let the people tremble: he sitteth between the cherubims; let the earth be moved.

99:2    耶和華在錫安為大。他超乎萬民之上。
The LORD is great in Zion; and he is high above all the people.

99:3    他們當稱讚他大而可畏的名。他本為聖。
Let them praise thy great and terrible name; for it is holy.

99:4    王有能力喜愛公平，豎立公正，在雅各中施行公平和公義。
The king's strength also loveth judgment; thou dost establish equity, thou executest judgment and righteousness in Jacob.

99:5    你們當尊崇耶和華我們的神，在他腳凳前下拜。他本為聖。
Exalt ye the LORD our God, and worship at his footstool; for he is holy.

99:6    在他的祭司中有摩西和亞倫，在求告他名的人中有撒母耳，他們求告耶和華，他就應允他們。
Moses and Aaron among his priests, and Samuel among them that call upon his name; they called upon the LORD, and he answered them.

99:7    他在雲柱中對他們說話。他們遵守他的法度，和他所賜給他們的律例。
He spake unto them in the cloudy pillar: they kept his testimonies, and the ordinance that he gave them.

99:8    耶和華我們的神阿，你應允他們。你是赦免他們的神，卻按他們所行的報應他們。
Thou answeredst them, O LORD our God: thou wast a God that forgavest them, though thou tookest vengeance of their inventions.

99:9    你們要尊崇耶和華我們的神，在他的聖山下拜。因為耶和華我們的神本為聖。
Exalt the LORD our God, and worship at his holy hill; for the LORD our God is holy.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 100 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


100:1    （稱謝詩）普天下當向耶和華歡呼。
Make a joyful noise unto the LORD, all ye lands.

100:2    你們當樂意事奉耶和華。當來向他歌唱。
Serve the LORD with gladness: come before his presence with singing.

100:3    你們當曉得耶和華是神。我們是他造的，也是屬他的。我們是他的民，也是他草場的羊。
Know ye that the LORD he is God: it is he that hath made us, and not we ourselves; we are his people, and the sheep of his pasture.

100:4    當稱謝進入他的門，當讚美進入他的院。當感謝他，稱頌他的名。
Enter into his gates with thanksgiving, and into his courts with praise: be thankful unto him, and bless his name.

100:5    因為耶和華本為善，他的慈愛，存到永遠，他的信實，直到萬代。
For the LORD is good; his mercy is everlasting; and his truth endureth to all generations.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 101 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


101:1    （大衛的詩）我要歌唱慈愛和公平。耶和華阿，我要向你歌頌。
I will sing of mercy and judgment: unto thee, O LORD, will I sing.

101:2    我要用智慧行完全的道。你幾時到我這裡來呢。我要存完全的心，行在我家中。
I will behave myself wisely in a perfect way. O when wilt thou come unto me? I will walk within my house with a perfect heart.

101:3    邪僻的事，我都不擺在我眼前。悖逆人所做的事，我甚恨惡，不容沾在我身上。
I will set no wicked thing before mine eyes: I hate the work of them that turn aside; it shall not cleave to me.

101:4    彎曲的心思，我必遠離。一切的惡人（或譯惡事），我不認識。
A froward heart shall depart from me: I will not know a wicked person.

101:5    在暗中讒謗他鄰居的，我必將他滅絕。眼目高傲，心裡驕縱的，我必不容他。
Whoso privily slandereth his neighbour, him will I cut off: him that hath an high look and a proud heart will not I suffer.

101:6    我眼要看國中的誠實人，叫他們與我同住。行為完全的，他要伺候我。
Mine eyes shall be upon the faithful of the land, that they may dwell with me: he that walketh in a perfect way, he shall serve me.

101:7    行詭詐的，必不得住在我家裡。說謊話的，必不得立在我眼前。
He that worketh deceit shall not dwell within my house: he that telleth lies shall not tarry in my sight.

101:8    我每日早晨，要滅絕國中所有的惡人。好把一切作孽的，從耶和華的城裡剪除。
I will early destroy all the wicked of the land; that I may cut off all wicked doers from the city of the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 102 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


102:1    （困苦人發昏的時候，在耶和華面前吐露苦情的禱告）耶和華阿，求你聽我的禱告，容我的呼求達到你面前。
Hear my prayer, O LORD, and let my cry come unto thee.

102:2    我在急難的日子，求你向我側耳，不要向我掩面。我呼求的日子，求你快快應允我。
Hide not thy face from me in the day when I am in trouble; incline thine ear unto me: in the day when I call answer me speedily.

102:3    因為，我的年日如煙雲消滅，我的骨頭，如火把燒著。
For my days are consumed like smoke, and my bones are burned as an hearth.

102:4    我的心被傷，如草枯乾，甚至我忘記吃飯。
My heart is smitten, and withered like grass; so that I forget to eat my bread.

102:5    因我唉哼的聲音，我的肉緊貼骨頭。
By reason of the voice of my groaning my bones cleave to my skin.

102:6    我如同曠野的鵜鶘。我好像荒場的？？鳥。
I am like a pelican of the wilderness: I am like an owl of the desert.

102:7    我儆醒不睡。我像房頂上孤單的麻雀。
I watch, and am as a sparrow alone upon the house top.

102:8    我的仇敵終日辱罵我。向我猖狂的人指著我賭咒。
Mine enemies reproach me all the day; and they that are mad against me are sworn against me.

102:9    我吃過爐灰，如同吃飯。我所喝的與眼淚攙雜。
For I have eaten ashes like bread, and mingled my drink with weeping,

102:10    這都因你的惱恨和忿怒。你把我拾起來，又把我摔下去。
Because of thine indignation and thy wrath: for thou hast lifted me up, and cast me down.

102:11    我的年日，如日偏斜。我也如草枯乾。
My days are like a shadow that declineth; and I am withered like grass.

102:12    惟你耶和華必存到永遠。你可記念的名，也存到萬代。
But thou, O LORD, shalt endure for ever; and thy remembrance unto all generations.

102:13    你必起來憐恤錫安，因現在飼可憐她的時候。日期已經到了。
Thou shalt arise, and have mercy upon Zion: for the time to favour her, yea, the set time, is come.

102:14    你的僕人原來喜悅她的石頭，可憐她的塵土。
For thy servants take pleasure in her stones, and favour the dust thereof.

102:15    列國要敬畏耶和華的名。世上諸王都敬畏你的榮耀。
So the heathen shall fear the name of the LORD, and all the kings of the earth thy glory.

102:16    因為耶和華建造了錫安，在他榮耀裡顯現。
When the LORD shall build up Zion, he shall appear in his glory.

102:17    他垂聽窮人的禱告，並不藐視他們的祈求。
He will regard the prayer of the destitute, and not despise their prayer.

102:18    這必為後代的人記下。將來受造的民，要讚美耶和華。
This shall be written for the generation to come: and the people which shall be created shall praise the LORD.

102:19    因為他從至高的聖所垂看。耶和華從天向地觀察。
For he hath looked down from the height of his sanctuary; from heaven did the LORD behold the earth;

102:20    要垂聽被囚之人的嘆息。要釋放將要死的人。
To hear the groaning of the prisoner; to loose those that are appointed to death;

102:21    使人在錫安傳揚耶和華的名，在耶路撒冷傳揚讚美他的話。
To declare the name of the LORD in Zion, and his praise in Jerusalem;

102:22    就是在萬民和列國聚會事奉耶和華的時候。
When the people are gathered together, and the kingdoms, to serve the LORD.

102:23    他使我的力量，中道衰弱，使我的年日短少。
He weakened my strength in the way; he shortened my days.

102:24    我說，我的神阿，不要使我中年去世。你的年數世世無窮。
I said, O my God, take me not away in the midst of my days: thy years are throughout all generations.

102:25    你起初立了地的根基。天也是你手所造的。
Of old hast thou laid the foundation of the earth: and the heavens are the work of thy hands.

102:26    天地都要滅沒，你卻要長存。天地都要如外衣漸漸舊了。你要將天地如裡衣更換，天地就改變了。
They shall perish, but thou shalt endure: yea, all of them shall wax old like a garment; as a vesture shalt thou change them, and they shall be changed:

102:27    惟有你永不改變。你的年數，沒有窮盡。
But thou art the same, and thy years shall have no end.

102:28    你僕人的子孫要長存。他們的後裔，要堅立在你面前。
The children of thy servants shall continue, and their seed shall be established before thee.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 103 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


103:1    （大衛的詩）。我的心哪，你要稱頌耶和華。凡在我裡面的，也要稱頌他的聖名。
Bless the LORD, O my soul: and all that is within me, bless his holy name.

103:2    我的心哪，你要稱頌耶和華，不可忘記他的一切恩惠。
Bless the LORD, O my soul, and forget not all his benefits:

103:3    他赦免你的一切罪孽，醫治你的一切疾病。
Who forgiveth all thine iniquities; who healeth all thy diseases;

103:4    他救贖你的命脫離死亡，以仁愛和慈悲為你的冠冕。
Who redeemeth thy life from destruction; who crowneth thee with lovingkindness and tender mercies;

103:5    他用美物，使你所願的得以知足，以致你如鷹反老還童。
Who satisfieth thy mouth with good things; so that thy youth is renewed like the eagle's.

103:6    耶和華施行公義，為一切受屈的人伸冤。
The LORD executeth righteousness and judgment for all that are oppressed.

103:7    他使摩西知道他的法則，叫以色列人曉得他的作為。
He made known his ways unto Moses, his acts unto the children of Israel.

103:8    耶和華有憐憫，有恩典，不輕易發怒，且有豐盛的慈愛。
The LORD is merciful and gracious, slow to anger, and plenteous in mercy.

103:9    他不長久責備，也不永遠懷怒。
He will not always chide: neither will he keep his anger for ever.

103:10    他沒有按我們的罪過待我們，也沒有照我們的罪孽報應我們。
He hath not dealt with us after our sins; nor rewarded us according to our iniquities.

103:11    天離地何等的高，他的慈愛向敬畏他的人，也是何等的大。
For as the heaven is high above the earth, so great is his mercy toward them that fear him.

103:12    東離西有多遠，他叫我們的過犯，離我們也有多遠。
As far as the east is from the west, so far hath he removed our transgressions from us.

103:13    父親怎樣憐恤他的兒女，耶和華也怎樣憐恤敬畏他的人。
Like as a father pitieth his children, so the LORD pitieth them that fear him.

103:14    因為他知道我們的本體，思念我們不過是塵土。
For he knoweth our frame; he remembereth that we are dust.

103:15    至於世人，他的年日如草一樣。他發旺如野地的花。
As for man, his days are as grass: as a flower of the field, so he flourisheth.

103:16    經風一吹，便歸無有。他的原處，也不再認識他。
For the wind passeth over it, and it is gone; and the place thereof shall know it no more.

103:17    但耶和華的慈愛，歸於敬畏他的人，從亙古到永遠。他的公義，也歸於子子孫孫。
But the mercy of the LORD is from everlasting to everlasting upon them that fear him, and his righteousness unto children's children;

103:18    就是那些遵守他的約，記念他的訓詞而遵行的人。
To such as keep his covenant, and to those that remember his commandments to do them.

103:19    耶和華在天上立定寶座。他的權柄（原文作國）統管萬有。
The LORD hath prepared his throne in the heavens; and his kingdom ruleth over all.

103:20    聽從他命令成全他旨意有大能的天使，都要稱頌耶和華。
Bless the LORD, ye his angels, that excel in strength, that do his commandments, hearkening unto the voice of his word.

103:21    你們作他的諸軍作他的僕役行他所喜悅的，都要稱頌耶和華。
Bless ye the LORD, all ye his hosts; ye ministers of his, that do his pleasure.

103:22    你們一切被他造的，在他所治理的各處，都要稱頌耶和華。我的心哪，你要稱頌耶和華。
Bless the LORD, all his works in all places of his dominion: bless the LORD, O my soul.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 104 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


104:1    我的心哪，你要稱頌耶和華。耶和華我的神阿，你為至大。你以尊榮威嚴為衣服。
Bless the LORD, O my soul. O LORD my God, thou art very great; thou art clothed with honour and majesty.

104:2    披上亮光，如披外袍，鋪張穹蒼，如鋪幔子。
Who coverest thyself with light as with a garment: who stretchest out the heavens like a curtain:

104:3    在水中立樓閣的楝樑，用雲彩為車輦，藉著風的翅膀而行。
Who layeth the beams of his chambers in the waters: who maketh the clouds his chariot: who walketh upon the wings of the wind:

104:4    以風為使者，以火焰為僕役。
Who maketh his angels spirits; his ministers a flaming fire:

104:5    將地立在根基上，使地永不動搖。
Who laid the foundations of the earth, that it should not be removed for ever.

104:6    你用深水遮蓋地面，猶如衣裳。諸水高過山嶺。
Thou coveredst it with the deep as with a garment: the waters stood above the mountains.

104:7    你的斥責一發，水便奔逃。你的雷聲一發，水便奔流。
At thy rebuke they fled; at the voice of thy thunder they hasted away.

104:8    （諸山升上，諸谷沉下（或作隨山上翻，隨谷下流），歸你為它所安定之地
They go up by the mountains; they go down by the valleys unto the place which thou hast founded for them.

104:9    你定了界限，使水不能過去，不再轉回遮蓋地面。
Thou hast set a bound that they may not pass over; that they turn not again to cover the earth.

104:10    耶和華使泉源湧在山谷，流在山間。
He sendeth the springs into the valleys, which run among the hills.

104:11    使野地的走獸有水喝，野驢得解其渴。
They give drink to every beast of the field: the wild asses quench their thirst.

104:12    天上的飛鳥在水旁住宿，在樹枝上啼叫。
By them shall the fowls of the heaven have their habitation, which sing among the branches.

104:13    他從樓閣中澆灌山嶺。因他作為的功效，地就豐足。
He watereth the hills from his chambers: the earth is satisfied with the fruit of thy works.

104:14    他使草生長，給六畜吃。使菜蔬髮長，供給人用。使人從地裡能得食物。
He causeth the grass to grow for the cattle, and herb for the service of man: that he may bring forth food out of the earth;

104:15    又得酒能悅人心，得油能潤人面，得糧能養人心。
And wine that maketh glad the heart of man, and oil to make his face to shine, and bread which strengtheneth man's heart.

104:16    佳美的樹木，就是黎巴嫩蹬香柏樹，是耶和華所栽種的，都滿了汁漿。
The trees of the LORD are full of sap; the cedars of Lebanon, which he hath planted;

104:17    雀鳥在其上搭窩。至於鶴，松樹是它的房屋。
Where the birds make their nests: as for the stork, the fir trees are her house.

104:18    高山為野山羊的住所。岩石為沙番的藏處。
The high hills are a refuge for the wild goats; and the rocks for the conies.

104:19    你安置月亮為定節令。日頭自知沉落。
He appointed the moon for seasons: the sun knoweth his going down.

104:20    你造黑暗為夜，林中的百獸就都爬出來。
Thou makest darkness, and it is night: wherein all the beasts of the forest do creep forth.

104:21    少壯獅子吼叫，要抓食，向神尋求食物。
The young lions roar after their prey, and seek their meat from God.

104:22    日頭一出，獸便躲避，臥在洞裡。
The sun ariseth, they gather themselves together, and lay them down in their dens.

104:23    人出去做工，勞碌直到晚上。
Man goeth forth unto his work and to his labour until the evening.

104:24    耶和華阿，你所造的何其多，都是你用智慧造成的。遍地滿了你的豐富。
O LORD, how manifold are thy works! in wisdom hast thou made them all: the earth is full of thy riches.

104:25    那裡有海，又大又廣。其中有無數的動物。大小活物都有。
So is this great and wide sea, wherein are things creeping innumerable, both small and great beasts.

104:26    那裡有船行走。有你所造的鱷魚游泳在其中。
There go the ships: there is that leviathan, whom thou hast made to play therein.

104:27    這都仰望你按時給它食物。
These wait all upon thee; that thou mayest give them their meat in due season.

104:28    你給它們，它們便拾起來；你張手，它們飽得美食。
That thou givest them they gather: thou openest thine hand, they are filled with good.

104:29    你掩面，它們便驚惶。你收回它們的氣，它們就死亡，歸於塵土。
Thou hidest thy face, they are troubled: thou takest away their breath, they die, and return to their dust.

104:30    你發出你的靈，它們便受造。你使地面更換為新。
Thou sendest forth thy spirit, they are created: and thou renewest the face of the earth.

104:31    願耶和華的榮耀存到永遠。願耶和華喜悅自己所造的。
The glory of the LORD shall endure for ever: the LORD shall rejoice in his works.

104:32    他看地，地便震動。他摸山，山就冒煙。
He looketh on the earth, and it trembleth: he toucheth the hills, and they smoke.

104:33    我要一生向耶和華唱詩。我還活的時候，要向我神歌頌。
I will sing unto the LORD as long as I live: I will sing praise to my God while I have my being.

104:34    願他以我的默唸為甘甜。我要因耶和華歡喜。
My meditation of him shall be sweet: I will be glad in the LORD.

104:35    願罪人從世上消滅。願惡人歸於無有。我的心哪，要稱頌耶和華。你們要讚美耶和華。（原文作哈利路亞下同）
Let the sinners be consumed out of the earth, and let the wicked be no more. Bless thou the LORD, O my soul. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 105 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


105:1    你們要稱謝耶和華，求告他的名，在萬民中傳揚他的作為。
O give thanks unto the LORD; call upon his name: make known his deeds among the people.

105:2    要向他唱詩歌頌，談論他一切奇妙的作為。
Sing unto him, sing psalms unto him: talk ye of all his wondrous works.

105:3    要以他的聖名誇耀。尋求耶和華的人，心中應當歡喜。
Glory ye in his holy name: let the heart of them rejoice that seek the LORD.

105:4    要尋求耶和華與他的能力，時常尋求他的面。
Seek the LORD, and his strength: seek his face evermore.

105:5    他僕人亞伯拉罕的後裔，他所揀選雅各的子孫哪，
Remember his marvellous works that he hath done; his wonders, and the judgments of his mouth;

105:6    你們要記念他奇妙的作為和他的奇事，並他口中的判語。
O ye seed of Abraham his servant, ye children of Jacob his chosen.

105:7    他是耶和華我們的神。全地都有他的判斷。
He is the LORD our God: his judgments are in all the earth.

105:8    他記念他的約，直到永遠，他所吩咐的話，直到千代。
He hath remembered his covenant for ever, the word which he commanded to a thousand generations.

105:9    就是與亞伯拉罕所立的約，向以撒所起的誓。
Which covenant he made with Abraham, and his oath unto Isaac;

105:10    他又將這約向雅各定為律例，向以色列定為永遠的約，
And confirmed the same unto Jacob for a law, and to Israel for an everlasting covenant:

105:11    說，我必將迦南地賜給你，作你產業的分。
Saying, Unto thee will I give the land of Canaan, the lot of your inheritance:

105:12    當時，他們人丁有限，數目稀少，並且在那地為寄居的。
When they were but a few men in number; yea, very few, and strangers in it.

105:13    他們從這邦游到那邦，從這國行到那國。
When they went from one nation to another, from one kingdom to another people;

105:14    他不容什麼人欺負他們，為他們的緣故責備君王，
He suffered no man to do them wrong: yea, he reproved kings for their sakes;

105:15    說，不可難為我受膏的人，也不可惡待我的先知。
Saying, Touch not mine anointed, and do my prophets no harm.

105:16    他命饑荒降在那地上，將所倚靠的糧食全行斷絕。
Moreover he called for a famine upon the land: he brake the whole staff of bread.

105:17    在他們以先打發一個人去。約瑟被賣為奴僕。
He sent a man before them, even Joseph, who was sold for a servant:

105:18    人用腳鐐傷他的腳，他被鐵鏈捆拘。
Whose feet they hurt with fetters: he was laid in iron:

105:19    耶和華的話試煉他，直等到他所說的應驗了。
Until the time that his word came: the word of the LORD tried him.

105:20    王打發人把他解開，就是治理眾民的，把他釋放。
The king sent and loosed him; even the ruler of the people, and let him go free.

105:21    立他作王家之主，掌管他一切所有的。
He made him lord of his house, and ruler of all his substance:

105:22    使他隨意捆綁他的臣宰，將智慧教導他的長老。
To bind his princes at his pleasure; and teach his senators wisdom.

105:23    以色列也到了埃及，雅各在含地寄居。
Israel also came into Egypt; and Jacob sojourned in the land of Ham.

105:24    耶和華使他的百姓生養眾多，使他們比敵人強盛。
And he increased his people greatly; and made them stronger than their enemies.



105:25    使敵人的心轉去恨他的百姓，並用詭計待他的僕人。
He turned their heart to hate his people, to deal subtilly with his servants.

105:26    他打發他的僕人摩西，和他所揀選的亞倫。
He sent Moses his servant; and Aaron whom he had chosen.

105:27    在敵人中間顯他的神蹟，在含地顯他的奇事。
They shewed his signs among them, and wonders in the land of Ham.

105:28    他命黑暗，就有黑暗。沒有違揹他話的。
He sent darkness, and made it dark; and they rebelled not against his word.

105:29    他叫埃及的水變為血，叫他們的魚死了。
He turned their waters into blood, and slew their fish.

105:30    在他們的地上，以及王宮的內室，青蛙多多滋生。
Their land brought forth frogs in abundance, in the chambers of their kings.

105:31    他說一聲，蒼蠅就成群而來，並有蝨子進入他們四境。
He spake, and there came divers sorts of flies, and lice in all their coasts.

105:32    他給他們降下冰雹為雨，在他們的地上降下火焰。
He gave them hail for rain, and flaming fire in their land.

105:33    他也擊打他們的葡萄樹和無花果樹，毀壞他們境內的樹木。
He smote their vines also and their fig trees; and brake the trees of their coasts.

105:34    他說一聲，就有蝗蟲螞蚱上來，不計其數，
He spake, and the locusts came, and caterpillers, and that without number,

105:35    吃盡了他們地上各樣的菜蔬，和田地的出產。
And did eat up all the herbs in their land, and devoured the fruit of their ground.

105:36    他又擊殺他們國內一切的長子，就是他們強壯時頭生的。
He smote also all the firstborn in their land, the chief of all their strength.

105:37    他領自己的百姓帶銀子金子出來。他支派中沒有一個軟弱的。
He brought them forth also with silver and gold: and there was not one feeble person among their tribes.

105:38    他們出來的時候，埃及人便歡喜。原來埃及人懼怕他們。
Egypt was glad when they departed: for the fear of them fell upon them.

105:39    他鋪張雲彩當遮蓋，夜間使火光照。
He spread a cloud for a covering; and fire to give light in the night.

105:40    他們一求，他就使鵪鶉飛來，並用天上的糧食，叫他們飽足。
The people asked, and he brought quails, and satisfied them with the bread of heaven.

105:41    他開啟磐石，水就湧出。在乾旱之處，水流成河。
He opened the rock, and the waters gushed out; they ran in the dry places like a river.

105:42    這都因他記念他的聖言，和他的僕人亞伯拉罕。
For he remembered his holy promise, and Abraham his servant.

105:43    他帶領百姓歡樂而出，帶領選民歡呼前往。
And he brought forth his people with joy, and his chosen with gladness:

105:44    他將列國的地賜給他們，他們便承受眾民勞碌得來的。
And gave them the lands of the heathen: and they inherited the labour of the people;

105:45    好使他們遵他的律例，守他的律法。你們要讚美耶和華。
That they might observe his statutes, and keep his laws. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 106 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


106:1    你們要讚美耶和華。要稱謝耶和華，因他本為善。他的慈愛永遠長存。
Praise ye the LORD. O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.

106:2    誰能傳說耶和華的大能，誰能表明他一切的美德。
Who can utter the mighty acts of the LORD? who can shew forth all his praise?

106:3    凡遵守公平，常行公義的，這人便為有福。
Blessed are they that keep judgment, and he that doeth righteousness at all times.

106:4    耶和華阿，你用恩惠待你的百姓，求你也用這恩惠記念我，開你的救恩眷顧我，
Remember me, O LORD, with the favour that thou bearest unto thy people: O visit me with thy salvation;

106:5    使我見你選民的福，樂你國民的樂，與你的產業一同誇耀。
That I may see the good of thy chosen, that I may rejoice in the gladness of thy nation, that I may glory with thine inheritance.

106:6    我們與我們的祖宗一同犯罪。我們作了孽，行了惡。
We have sinned with our fathers, we have committed iniquity, we have done wickedly.

106:7    我們的祖宗在埃及不明白你的奇事，不記念你豐盛的慈愛，反倒在紅海行了悖逆。
Our fathers understood not thy wonders in Egypt; they remembered not the multitude of thy mercies; but provoked him at the sea, even at the Red sea.

106:8    然而，他因自己的名拯救他們，為要彰顯他的大能。
Nevertheless he saved them for his name's sake, that he might make his mighty power to be known.

106:9    並且斥責紅海，海便乾了；他帶領他們經過深處，如同經過曠野。
He rebuked the Red sea also, and it was dried up: so he led them through the depths, as through the wilderness.

106:10    他拯救他們脫離恨他們人的手，從仇敵手中救贖他們。
And he saved them from the hand of him that hated them, and redeemed them from the hand of the enemy.

106:11    水淹沒他們的敵人，沒有一個存留。
And the waters covered their enemies: there was not one of them left.

106:12    那時，他們才信了他的話，歌唱讚美他。
Then believed they his words; they sang his praise.

106:13    等不多時，他們就忘了他的作為，不仰望他的指教，
They soon forgat his works; they waited not for his counsel:

106:14    反倒在曠野大起欲心，在荒地試探神。
But lusted exceedingly in the wilderness, and tempted God in the desert.

106:15    他將他們所求的賜給他們，卻使他們的心靈軟弱。
And he gave them their request; but sent leanness into their soul.

106:16    他們又在營中嫉妒摩西，和耶和華的聖者亞倫。
They envied Moses also in the camp, and Aaron the saint of the LORD.

106:17    地裂開，吞下大坍，掩蓋亞比蘭一黨的人。
The earth opened and swallowed up Dathan, and covered the company of Abiram.

106:18    有火在他們的黨中發起，有火焰燒燬了惡人。
And a fire was kindled in their company; the flame burned up the wicked.

106:19    他們在何烈山造了牛犢，叩拜鑄成的像。
They made a calf in Horeb, and worshipped the molten image.

106:20    如此將他們榮耀的主，換為吃草之牛的像。
Thus they changed their glory into the similitude of an ox that eateth grass.

106:21    忘了神他們的救主。他曾在埃及行大事。
They forgat God their saviour, which had done great things in Egypt;

106:22    在含地行奇事，在紅海行可畏的事。
Wondrous works in the land of Ham, and terrible things by the Red sea.

106:23    所以，他說要滅絕他們。若非有他所揀選的摩西站在當中（原文作破口），使他的忿怒轉消，恐怕他就滅絕他們。
Therefore he said that he would destroy them, had not Moses his chosen stood before him in the breach, to turn away his wrath, lest he should destroy them.

106:24    他們又藐視那美地，不信他的話，
Yea, they despised the pleasant land, they believed not his word:

106:25    在自己帳棚內發怨言，不聽耶和華的聲音。
But murmured in their tents, and hearkened not unto the voice of the LORD.

106:26    所以，他對他們起誓，必叫他們倒在曠野，
Therefore he lifted up his hand against them, to overthrow them in the wilderness:

106:27    叫他們的後裔倒在列國之中，分散在各地。
To overthrow their seed also among the nations, and to scatter them in the lands.

106:28    他們又與巴力毗珥連合，且吃了祭死神（或作人）的物。
They joined themselves also unto Baalpeor, and ate the sacrifices of the dead.

106:29    他們這樣行，惹耶和華髮怒，便有瘟疫流行在他們中間。
Thus they provoked him to anger with their inventions: and the plague brake in upon them.

106:30    那時，非尼哈站起，刑罰惡人，瘟疫這才止息。
Then stood up Phinehas, and executed judgment: and so the plague was stayed.

106:31    那就算為他的義，世世代代，直到永遠。
And that was counted unto him for righteousness unto all generations for evermore.

106:32    他們在米利巴水又叫耶和華髮怒，甚至摩西也受了虧損。
They angered him also at the waters of strife, so that it went ill with Moses for their sakes:

106:33    是因他們惹動他的靈，摩西（原文作他）用嘴說了急躁的話。
Because they provoked his spirit, so that he spake unadvisedly with his lips.

106:34    他們不照耶和華所吩咐的滅絕外邦人，
They did not destroy the nations, concerning whom the LORD commanded them:

106:35    反與他們混雜相合，學習他們的行為，
But were mingled among the heathen, and learned their works.

106:36    事奉他們的偶像，這就成了自己的網羅。
And they served their idols: which were a snare unto them.

106:37    把自己的兒女祭祀鬼魔，
Yea, they sacrificed their sons and their daughters unto devils,

106:38    流無辜人的血，就是自己兒女的血，把他們祭祀迦南的偶像，那地就被血汙穢了。
And shed innocent blood, even the blood of their sons and of their daughters, whom they sacrificed unto the idols of Canaan: and the land was polluted with blood.

106:39    這樣，他們被自己所做的汙穢了，在行為上犯了邪淫。
Thus were they defiled with their own works, and went a whoring with their own inventions.

106:40    所以，耶和華的怒氣，向他的百姓發作，憎惡他的產業。
Therefore was the wrath of the LORD kindled against his people, insomuch that he abhorred his own inheritance.



106:41    將他們交在外邦人的手裡；恨他們的人就轄制他們。
And he gave them into the hand of the heathen; and they that hated them ruled over them.

106:42    他們的仇敵也欺壓他們，他們就伏在敵人手下。
Their enemies also oppressed them, and they were brought into subjection under their hand.



106:43    他屢次搭救他們，他們卻設謀背逆，因自己的罪孽降為卑下。
Many times did he deliver them; but they provoked him with their counsel, and were brought low for their iniquity.

106:44    然而，他聽見他們哀告的時候，就眷顧他們的急難。
Nevertheless he regarded their affliction, when he heard their cry:

106:45    為他們記念他的約，照他豐盛的慈愛後悔。
And he remembered for them his covenant, and repented according to the multitude of his mercies.

106:46    他也使他們在凡擄掠他們的人面前蒙憐恤。
He made them also to be pitied of all those that carried them captives.

106:47    耶和華我們的神阿，求你拯救我們，從外邦中招聚我們，我們好稱讚你的聖名，以讚美你為誇勝。
Save us, O LORD our God, and gather us from among the heathen, to give thanks unto thy holy name, and to triumph in thy praise.

106:48    耶和華以色列的神是應當稱頌的，從亙古直到永遠。願眾民都說，阿們。你們要讚美耶和華。
Blessed be the LORD God of Israel from everlasting to everlasting: and let all the people say, Amen. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 107 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


107:1    你們要稱謝耶和華，因他本為善。他的慈愛，永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the LORD, for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.

107:2    願耶和華的贖民說這話，就是他從敵人手中所救贖的，
Let the redeemed of the LORD say so, whom he hath redeemed from the hand of the enemy;

107:3    從各地，從東從西，從南從北，所招聚來的。
And gathered them out of the lands, from the east, and from the west, from the north, and from the south.

107:4    他們在曠野荒地漂流，尋不見可住的城邑。
They wandered in the wilderness in a solitary way; they found no city to dwell in.

107:5    又飢又渴，心裡發昏。
Hungry and thirsty, their soul fainted in them.

107:6    於是，他們在苦難中哀求耶和華，他從他們的禍患中搭救他們。
Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he delivered them out of their distresses.

107:7    又領他們行走直路，使他們往可居住的城邑。
And he led them forth by the right way, that they might go to a city of habitation.

107:8    但願人因耶和華的慈愛和他向人所行的奇事都稱讚他。
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!

107:9    因他使心裡渴慕的人，得以知足，使心裡飢餓的人，得飽美物。
For he satisfieth the longing soul, and filleth the hungry soul with goodness.

107:10    那些坐在黑暗中死蔭裡的人，被困苦和鐵鏈捆鎖，
Such as sit in darkness and in the shadow of death, being bound in affliction and iron;

107:11    是因他們違背神的話語，藐視至高者的旨意。
Because they rebelled against the words of God, and contemned the counsel of the most High:

107:12    所以，他用勞苦治服他們的心。他們仆倒，無人扶助。
Therefore he brought down their heart with labour; they fell down, and there was none to help.

107:13    於是，他們在苦難中哀求耶和華，他從他們的禍患中拯救他們。
Then they cried unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saved them out of their distresses.

107:14    他從黑暗中，和死蔭裡，領他們出來，折斷他們的綁索。
He brought them out of darkness and the shadow of death, and brake their bands in sunder.

107:15    但願人因耶和華的慈愛，和他向人所行的奇事都稱讚他。
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!

107:16    因為他打破了銅門，砍斷了鐵閂。
For he hath broken the gates of brass, and cut the bars of iron in sunder.

107:17    愚妄人因自己的過犯，和自己的罪孽便受苦楚。
Fools because of their transgression, and because of their iniquities, are afflicted.

107:18    他們心裡厭惡各樣的食物，就臨近死門。
Their soul abhorreth all manner of meat; and they draw near unto the gates of death.

107:19    於是，他們在苦難中哀求耶和華，他從他們的禍患中拯救他們。
Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he saveth them out of their distresses.

107:20    他發命醫治他們，救他們脫離死亡。
He sent his word, and healed them, and delivered them from their destructions.

107:21    但願人因耶和華的慈愛，和他向人所行的奇事都稱讚他。
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!

107:22    願他們以感謝為祭獻給他，歡呼述說他的作為。
And let them sacrifice the sacrifices of thanksgiving, and declare his works with rejoicing.

107:23    在海上坐船，在大水中經理事務的。
They that go down to the sea in ships, that do business in great waters;

107:24    他們看見耶和華的作為，並他在深水中的奇事。
These see the works of the LORD, and his wonders in the deep.

107:25    因他一吩咐，狂風就起來，海中的波浪也揚起。
For he commandeth, and raiseth the stormy wind, which lifteth up the waves thereof.

107:26    他們上到天空，下到海底，他們的心因患難便消化。
They mount up to the heaven, they go down again to the depths: their soul is melted because of trouble.

107:27    他們搖搖幌幌。東倒西歪，好像醉酒的人。他們的智慧無法可施。
They reel to and fro, and stagger like a drunken man, and are at their wit's end.

107:28    於是，他們在苦難中哀求耶和華，他從他們的禍患中領出他們來。
Then they cry unto the LORD in their trouble, and he bringeth them out of their distresses.

107:29    他使狂風止息，波浪就平靜。
He maketh the storm a calm, so that the waves thereof are still.

107:30    風息浪靜，他們便歡喜。他就引他們到所願去的海口。
Then are they glad because they be quiet; so he bringeth them unto their desired haven.

107:31    但願人因耶和華的慈愛，和他向人所行的奇事都稱讚他。
Oh that men would praise the LORD for his goodness, and for his wonderful works to the children of men!

107:32    願他們在民的會中尊崇他，在長老的位上讚美他。
Let them exalt him also in the congregation of the people, and praise him in the assembly of the elders.

107:33    他使江河變為曠野，叫水泉變為乾渴之地。
He turneth rivers into a wilderness, and the watersprings into dry ground;

107:34    使肥地變為礆地。這都因其間居民的罪惡。
A fruitful land into barrenness, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein.

107:35    他使曠野變為水潭，叫旱地變為水泉。
He turneth the wilderness into a standing water, and dry ground into watersprings.

107:36    他使飢餓的人住在那裡，好建造可住的城邑。
And there he maketh the hungry to dwell, that they may prepare a city for habitation;

107:37    又種田地，栽葡萄園，得享所出的土產。
And sow the fields, and plant vineyards, which may yield fruits of increase.

107:38    他又賜福給他們，叫他們生養眾多。也不叫他們的牲畜減少。
He blesseth them also, so that they are multiplied greatly; and suffereth not their cattle to decrease.

107:39    他們又因暴虐，患難，愁苦，就減少且卑下。
Again, they are minished and brought low through oppression, affliction, and sorrow.

107:40    他使君王蒙羞被辱，使他們在荒廢無路之地漂流。
He poureth contempt upon princes, and causeth them to wander in the wilderness, where there is no way.

107:41    他卻將窮乏人安置在高處，脫離苦難，使他的家屬多如羊群。
Yet setteth he the poor on high from affliction, and maketh him families like a flock.

107:42    正直人看見，就歡喜。罪孽之輩，必塞口無言。
The righteous shall see it, and rejoice: and all iniquity shall stop her mouth.

107:43    凡有智慧的，必在這些事上留心，也必思想耶和華的慈愛。
Whoso is wise, and will observe these things, even they shall understand the lovingkindness of the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 108 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


108:1    （大衛的詩歌）神阿，我心堅定。我口（原文作榮耀）要唱詩歌頌。
O God, my heart is fixed; I will sing and give praise, even with my glory.

108:2    琴瑟阿，你們當醒起。我自己要極早醒起。
Awake, psaltery and harp: I myself will awake early.

108:3    耶和華阿，我要在萬民中稱謝你，在列邦中歌頌你。
I will praise thee, O LORD, among the people: and I will sing praises unto thee among the nations.

108:4    因為，你的慈愛，大過諸天；你的誠實，達到穹蒼。
For thy mercy is great above the heavens: and thy truth reacheth unto the clouds.

108:5    神阿，願你崇高過於諸天。願你的榮耀，高過全地。
Be thou exalted, O God, above the heavens: and thy glory above all the earth;

108:6    求你應允我們，用右手拯救我們，好叫你所親愛的人得救。
That thy beloved may be delivered: save with thy right hand, and answer me.

108:7    神已經指著他的聖潔說（說或作應許我），我要歡樂。我要分開示劍，丈量疏割谷。
God hath spoken in his holiness; I will rejoice, I will divide Shechem, and mete out the valley of Succoth.

108:8    基列是我的。瑪拿西是我的。以法蓮是護衛我頭的。猶大是我的杖。
Gilead is mine; Manasseh is mine; Ephraim also is the strength of mine head; Judah is my lawgiver;

108:9    摩押是我的沭浴盆。我要向以東拋鞋。我必因勝非利士呼喊。
Moab is my washpot; over Edom will I cast out my shoe; over Philistia will I triumph.

108:10    誰能領我進堅固城。誰能引我到以東地。
Who will bring me into the strong city? who will lead me into Edom?

108:11    神阿，你不是丟棄了我們嗎。神阿，你不和我們的軍兵同去嗎。
Wilt not thou, O God, who hast cast us off? and wilt not thou, O God, go forth with our hosts?

108:12    求你幫助我們攻擊敵人，因為人的幫助是枉然的。
Give us help from trouble: for vain is the help of man.

108:13    我們倚靠神，才得施展大能，因為踐踏我們敵人的就是他。
Through God we shall do valiantly: for he it is that shall tread down our enemies.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 109 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


109:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長）我所讚美的神阿，求你不要閉口不言。
Hold not thy peace, O God of my praise;

109:2    因為惡人的嘴，和詭詐人的口，已經張開攻擊我。他們用撒謊的舌頭對我說話。
For the mouth of the wicked and the mouth of the deceitful are opened against me: they have spoken against me with a lying tongue.

109:3    他們圍繞我，說怨恨的話，又無故地攻打我。
They compassed me about also with words of hatred; and fought against me without a cause.

109:4    他們與我為敵以報我愛。但我專心祈禱。
For my love they are my adversaries: but I give myself unto prayer.

109:5    他們向我以惡報善，以恨報愛。
And they have rewarded me evil for good, and hatred for my love.

109:6    願你派一個惡人轄制他，派一個對頭站在他右邊。
Set thou a wicked man over him: and let Satan stand at his right hand.

109:7    他受審判的時候，願他出來擔當罪名。願他的祈禱反成為罪。
When he shall be judged, let him be condemned: and let his prayer become sin.

109:8    願他的年日短少。願別人得他的職分。
Let his days be few; and let another take his office.

109:9    願他的兒女為孤兒，他的妻子為寡婦。
Let his children be fatherless, and his wife a widow.

109:10    願他的兒女漂流討飯，從他們荒涼之處出來求食。
Let his children be continually vagabonds, and beg: let them seek their bread also out of their desolate places.

109:11    願強暴的債主牢籠他一切所有的。願外人搶他勞碌得來的。
Let the extortioner catch all that he hath; and let the strangers spoil his labour.

109:12    願無人向他延綿施恩。願無人可憐他的孤兒。
Let there be none to extend mercy unto him: neither let there be any to favour his fatherless children.

109:13    願他的後人斷絕，名字被塗抹，不傳於下代。
Let his posterity be cut off; and in the generation following let their name be blotted out.

109:14    願他祖宗的罪孽被耶和華記念。願他母親的罪過不被塗抹。
Let the iniquity of his fathers be remembered with the LORD; and let not the sin of his mother be blotted out.

109:15    願這些罪常在耶和華面前，使他的名號斷絕於世。
Let them be before the LORD continually, that he may cut off the memory of them from the earth.

109:16    因為他不想施恩，卻逼迫困苦窮乏的，和傷心的人，要把他們治死。
Because that he remembered not to shew mercy, but persecuted the poor and needy man, that he might even slay the broken in heart.

109:17    他愛咒罵，咒罵就臨到他。他不喜愛福樂，福樂就與他遠離。
As he loved cursing, so let it come unto him: as he delighted not in blessing, so let it be far from him.

109:18    他拿咒罵當衣服穿上。這咒罵就如水進他裡面，像油入他的骨頭。
As he clothed himself with cursing like as with his garment, so let it come into his bowels like water, and like oil into his bones.

109:19    願這咒罵當他遮身的衣服，當他常束的腰帶。
Let it be unto him as the garment which covereth him, and for a girdle wherewith he is girded continually.

109:20    這就是我對頭，和用惡言議論我的人，從耶和華那裡所受的報應。
Let this be the reward of mine adversaries from the LORD, and of them that speak evil against my soul.

109:21    主耶和華阿，求你為你的名恩待我。因你的慈愛美好，求你搭救我。
But do thou for me, O GOD the Lord, for thy name's sake: because thy mercy is good, deliver thou me.

109:22    因為我困苦窮乏，內心受傷。
For I am poor and needy, and my heart is wounded within me.

109:23    我如日影漸漸偏斜而去。我如蝗蟲被抖出來。
I am gone like the shadow when it declineth: I am tossed up and down as the locust.

109:24    我因禁食，膝骨軟弱；我身上的肉也漸漸瘦了。
My knees are weak through fasting; and my flesh faileth of fatness.

109:25    我受他們的羞辱。他們看見我，便搖頭。
I became also a reproach unto them: when they looked upon me they shaked their heads.

109:26    耶和華我的神阿，求你幫助我，照你的慈愛拯救我。
Help me, O LORD my God: O save me according to thy mercy:

109:27    使他們知道這是你的手，是你耶和華所行的事。
That they may know that this is thy hand; that thou, LORD, hast done it.

109:28    任憑他們咒罵。惟願你賜福。他們幾時起來就必蒙羞，你的僕人卻要歡喜。
Let them curse, but bless thou: when they arise, let them be ashamed; but let thy servant rejoice.

109:29    願我的對頭，披戴羞辱。願他們以自己的羞愧為外袍遮身。
Let mine adversaries be clothed with shame, and let them cover themselves with their own confusion, as with a mantle.

109:30    我要用口極力稱謝耶和華。我要在眾人中間讚美他。
I will greatly praise the LORD with my mouth; yea, I will praise him among the multitude.

109:31    因為他必站在窮乏人的右邊，要救他脫離審判他靈魂的人。
For he shall stand at the right hand of the poor, to save him from those that condemn his soul.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 110 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


110:1    （大衛的詩）耶和華對我主說，你坐在我的右邊，等我使你仇敵作你的腳凳。
The LORD said unto my Lord, Sit thou at my right hand, until I make thine enemies thy footstool.

110:2    耶和華必使你從錫安伸出能力的杖來。你要在你仇敵中掌權。
The LORD shall send the rod of thy strength out of Zion: rule thou in the midst of thine enemies.

110:3    當你掌權的日子（或作行軍的日子），你的民要以聖潔的妝飾為衣（或作以聖潔為妝飾），甘心犧牲自己。你的民多如清晨的甘露（或作你少年時光耀如清晨的甘露）。
Thy people shall be willing in the day of thy power, in the beauties of holiness from the womb of the morning: thou hast the dew of thy youth.

110:4    耶和華起了誓，決不後悔，說，你是照著麥基洗德的等次，永遠為祭司。
The LORD hath sworn, and will not repent, Thou art a priest for ever after the order of Melchizedek.

110:5    在你右邊的主，當他發怒的日子，必打傷列王。
The Lord at thy right hand shall strike through kings in the day of his wrath.

110:6    他要在列邦中刑罰惡人，屍首就遍滿各處。他要在許多國中打破仇敵的頭
He shall judge among the heathen, he shall fill the places with the dead bodies; he shall wound the heads over many countries.

110:7    他要喝路旁的河水，因此必抬起頭來。
He shall drink of the brook in the way: therefore shall he lift up the head.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 111 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


111:1    你們要讚美耶和華。我要在正直人的大會中，並公會中，一心稱謝耶和華。
Praise ye the LORD. I will praise the LORD with my whole heart, in the assembly of the upright, and in the congregation.

111:2    耶和華的作為本為大。凡喜愛的都必考察。
The works of the LORD are great, sought out of all them that have pleasure therein.

111:3    他所行的是尊榮和威嚴。他的公義存到永遠。
His work is honourable and glorious: and his righteousness endureth for ever.

111:4    他行了奇事，使人記念。耶和華有恩惠，有憐憫。
He hath made his wonderful works to be remembered: the LORD is gracious and full of compassion.

111:5    他賜糧食給敬畏他的人。他必永遠記念他的約。
He hath given meat unto them that fear him: he will ever be mindful of his covenant.

111:6    他向百姓顯出大能的作為，把外邦的地賜給他們為業。
He hath shewed his people the power of his works, that he may give them the heritage of the heathen.

111:7    他手所行的，是誠實公平。他的訓詞都是確實的。
The works of his hands are verity and judgment; all his commandments are sure.

111:8    是永永遠遠堅定的，是按誠實正直設立的。
They stand fast for ever and ever, and are done in truth and uprightness.

111:9    他向百姓施行救贖，命定他的約，直到永遠。他的名聖而可畏。
He sent redemption unto his people: he hath commanded his covenant for ever: holy and reverend is his name.

111:10    敬畏耶和華是智慧得開端。凡遵行。他命令的，便是聰明人。耶和華是永遠當讚美的。
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: a good understanding have all they that do his commandments: his praise endureth for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 112 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


112:1    你們要讚美耶和華。敬畏耶和華，甚喜愛他命令的，這人便為有福。
Praise ye the LORD. Blessed is the man that feareth the LORD, that delighteth greatly in his commandments.

112:2    他的後裔在世必強盛。正直人的後代，必要蒙福。
His seed shall be mighty upon earth: the generation of the upright shall be blessed.

112:3    他家中有貨物，有錢財。他的公義存到永遠。
Wealth and riches shall be in his house: and his righteousness endureth for ever.

112:4    正直人在黑暗中，有光向他發現。他有恩惠，有憐憫，有公義。
Unto the upright there ariseth light in the darkness: he is gracious, and full of compassion, and righteous.

112:5    施恩與人，借貸與人的，這人事情順利。他被審判的時候，要訴明自己的冤。
A good man sheweth favour, and lendeth: he will guide his affairs with discretion.

112:6    他永不動搖。義人被記念，直到永遠。
Surely he shall not be moved for ever: the righteous shall be in everlasting remembrance.

112:7    他必不怕凶惡的資訊。他心堅定，倚靠耶和華。
He shall not be afraid of evil tidings: his heart is fixed, trusting in the LORD.

112:8    他心確定，總不懼怕，直到他看見敵人遭報。
His heart is established, he shall not be afraid, until he see his desire upon his enemies.

112:9    他施捨錢財，賙濟貧窮。他的仁義存到永遠。他的角必被高舉，大有榮耀。
He hath dispersed, he hath given to the poor; his righteousness endureth for ever; his horn shall be exalted with honour.

112:10    惡人看見便惱恨。必咬牙而消化。惡人的心願，要歸滅絕。
The wicked shall see it, and be grieved; he shall gnash with his teeth, and melt away: the desire of the wicked shall perish.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 113 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


113:1    你們要讚美耶和華。耶和華的僕人哪，你們要讚美，讚美耶和華的名。
Praise ye the LORD. Praise, O ye servants of the LORD, praise the name of the LORD.

113:2    耶和華的名，是應當稱頌的，從今時直到永遠。
Blessed be the name of the LORD from this time forth and for evermore.

113:3    從日出之地，到日落之處，耶和華的名是應當讚美的。
From the rising of the sun unto the going down of the same the LORD's name is to be praised.

113:4    耶和華超乎萬民之上。他的榮耀高過諸天。
The LORD is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens.

113:5    誰像耶和華我們的神呢。他坐在至高之處，
Who is like unto the LORD our God, who dwelleth on high,

113:6    自己謙卑，觀看天上地下的事。
Who humbleth himself to behold the things that are in heaven, and in the earth!

113:7    他從灰塵裡抬舉貧寒人，從糞堆中提拔窮乏人。
He raiseth up the poor out of the dust, and lifteth the needy out of the dunghill;

113:8    使他們與王子同坐，就是與本國的王子同坐。
That he may set him with princes, even with the princes of his people.

113:9    他使不能生育的婦人安居家中，為多子的樂母。你們要讚美耶和華。
He maketh the barren woman to keep house, and to be a joyful mother of children. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 114 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


114:1    以色列出了埃及，雅各家離開說異言之民。
When Israel went out of Egypt, the house of Jacob from a people of strange language;

114:2    那時，猶大為主的聖所，以色列為他所治理的國度。
Judah was his sanctuary, and Israel his dominion.

114:3    滄海看見就奔逃。約旦河也倒流。
The sea saw it, and fled: Jordan was driven back.

114:4    大山踴躍，如公羊。小山跳舞，如羊羔。
The mountains skipped like rams, and the little hills like lambs.

114:5    滄海阿，你為何奔逃。約旦哪，你為何倒流。
What ailed thee, O thou sea, that thou fleddest? thou Jordan, that thou wast driven back?

114:6    大山哪，你為何踴躍，如公羊。小山哪，你為何跳舞，如羊羔。
Ye mountains, that ye skipped like rams; and ye little hills, like lambs?

114:7    大地阿，你因見主的面，就是雅各神的面，便要震動。
Tremble, thou earth, at the presence of the Lord, at the presence of the God of Jacob;

114:8    他叫磐石變為水池，叫堅石變為泉源。
Which turned the rock into a standing water, the flint into a fountain of waters.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 115 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


115:1    耶和華阿，榮耀不要歸與我們，不要歸與我們。要因你的慈愛和誠實歸在你的名下。
Not unto us, O LORD, not unto us, but unto thy name give glory, for thy mercy, and for thy truth's sake.

115:2    為何容外邦人說，他們的神在哪裡呢。
Wherefore should the heathen say, Where is now their God?

115:3    然而，我們的神在天上。都隨自己的意旨行事。
But our God is in the heavens: he hath done whatsoever he hath pleased.

115:4    他們的偶像，是金的，銀的，是人手所造的。
Their idols are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.

115:5    有口卻不能言，有眼卻不能看。
They have mouths, but they speak not: eyes have they, but they see not:

115:6    有耳卻不能聽。有鼻卻不能聞。
They have ears, but they hear not: noses have they, but they smell not:

115:7    有手卻不能摸。有腳卻不能走。有喉嚨也不能出聲。
They have hands, but they handle not: feet have they, but they walk not: neither speak they through their throat.

115:8    造他的要和他一樣。凡靠他的也要如此。
They that make them are like unto them; so is every one that trusteth in them.

115:9    以色列阿，你要倚靠耶和華。他是你的幫助，和你的盾牌。
O Israel, trust thou in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.

115:10    亞倫家阿，你們要倚靠耶和華。他是你們的幫助，和你們的盾牌。
O house of Aaron, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.

115:11    你們敬畏耶和華的，要倚靠耶和華。他是你們的幫助，和你們的盾牌。
Ye that fear the LORD, trust in the LORD: he is their help and their shield.

115:12    耶和華向來眷念我們。他還要賜福給我們，要賜福給以色列的家，賜福給亞倫的家。
The LORD hath been mindful of us: he will bless us; he will bless the house of Israel; he will bless the house of Aaron.

115:13    凡敬畏耶和華的，無論大小，主必賜福給他。
He will bless them that fear the LORD, both small and great.

115:14    願耶和華叫你們和你們的子孫，日見加增。
The LORD shall increase you more and more, you and your children.

115:15    你們蒙了造天地之耶和華的福。
Ye are blessed of the LORD which made heaven and earth.

115:16    天，是耶和華的天。地，他卻給了世人。
The heaven, even the heavens, are the LORD's: but the earth hath he given to the children of men.

115:17    死人不能讚美耶和華。下到寂靜中的也都不能。
The dead praise not the LORD, neither any that go down into silence.

115:18    但我們要稱頌耶和華，從今時直到永遠。你們要讚美耶和華。
But we will bless the LORD from this time forth and for evermore. Praise the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 116 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


116:1    我愛耶和華，因為他聽了我的聲音，和我的懇求。
I love the LORD, because he hath heard my voice and my supplications.

116:2    他既向我側耳，我一生要求告他。
Because he hath inclined his ear unto me, therefore will I call upon him as long as I live.

116:3    死亡的繩索纏繞我，陰間的痛苦抓住我。我遭遇患難愁苦。
The sorrows of death compassed me, and the pains of hell gat hold upon me: I found trouble and sorrow.

116:4    那時，我便求告耶和華的名，說，耶和華阿，求你救我的靈魂。
Then called I upon the name of the LORD; O LORD, I beseech thee, deliver my soul.

116:5    耶和華有恩惠，有公義。我們的神以憐憫為懷。
Gracious is the LORD, and righteous; yea, our God is merciful.

116:6    耶和華保護愚人。我落到卑微的地步，他救了我。
The LORD preserveth the simple: I was brought low, and he helped me.

116:7    我的心哪，你要仍歸安樂，因為耶和華用厚恩待你。
Return unto thy rest, O my soul; for the LORD hath dealt bountifully with thee.

116:8    主阿，你救我的命，免了死亡，救我的眼，免了流淚，救我的腳，免了跌倒。
For thou hast delivered my soul from death, mine eyes from tears, and my feet from falling.

116:9    我要在耶和華面前，行活人之路。
I will walk before the LORD in the land of the living.

116:10    我因信，所以如此說話。我受了極大的困苦。
I believed, therefore have I spoken: I was greatly afflicted:

116:11    我曾急促地說，人都是說謊的。
I said in my haste, All men are liars.

116:12    我拿什麼報答耶和華向我所賜的一切厚恩。
What shall I render unto the LORD for all his benefits toward me?

116:13    我要舉起救恩的杯，稱揚耶和華的名。
I will take the cup of salvation, and call upon the name of the LORD.

116:14    我要在他眾民面前向耶和華還我的願。
I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people.

116:15    在耶和華眼中，看聖民之死，極為寶貴。
Precious in the sight of the LORD is the death of his saints.

116:16    耶和華阿，我真是你的僕人。我是你的僕人，是你婢女的兒子。你已經解開我的綁索。
O LORD, truly I am thy servant; I am thy servant, and the son of thine handmaid: thou hast loosed my bonds.

116:17    我要以感謝為祭獻給你，又要求告耶和華的名。
I will offer to thee the sacrifice of thanksgiving, and will call upon the name of the LORD.

116:18    我要在他眾民面前，在耶和華殿的院內，
I will pay my vows unto the LORD now in the presence of all his people,

116:19    在耶路撒冷當中，向耶和華還我的願。你們要讚美耶和華。
In the courts of the LORD's house, in the midst of thee, O Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 117 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


117:1    萬國阿，你們都當讚美耶和華。萬民哪，你們都當頌讚他。
O Praise the LORD, all ye nations: praise him, all ye people.

117:2    因為他向我們大施慈愛。耶和華的誠實存到永遠。你們要讚美耶和華。
For his merciful kindness is great toward us: and the truth of the LORD endureth for ever. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 118 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


118:1    你們要稱謝耶和華，因他本為善。他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: because his mercy endureth for ever.

118:2    願以色列說，他的慈愛永遠長存。
Let Israel now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.

118:3    願亞倫的家說，他的慈愛永遠長存。
Let the house of Aaron now say, that his mercy endureth for ever.

118:4    願敬畏耶和華的說，他的慈愛永遠長存。
Let them now that fear the LORD say, that his mercy endureth for ever.

118:5    我在急難中求告耶和華，他就應允我，把我安置在寬闊之地。
I called upon the LORD in distress: the LORD answered me, and set me in a large place.

118:6    有耶和華幫助我。我必不懼怕。人能把我怎嗎樣呢。
The LORD is on my side; I will not fear: what can man do unto me?

118:7    在那幫助我的人中，有耶和華幫助我，所以我要看見那恨我的人遭報。
The LORD taketh my part with them that help me: therefore shall I see my desire upon them that hate me.

118:8    投靠耶和華，強似衣賴人。
It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in man.

118:9    投靠耶和華，強似倚賴王子。
It is better to trust in the LORD than to put confidence in princes.

118:10    萬民圍繞我。我靠耶和華的名，必剿滅他們。
All nations compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD will I destroy them.

118:11    他們環繞我，圍困我。我靠耶和華的名，必剿滅他們。
They compassed me about; yea, they compassed me about: but in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

118:12    他們如同蜂子圍繞我，好像燒荊棘的火，必被熄滅。我靠耶和華的名，必剿滅他們。
They compassed me about like bees; they are quenched as the fire of thorns: for in the name of the LORD I will destroy them.

118:13    你推我，要叫我跌倒，但耶和華幫助了我。
Thou hast thrust sore at me that I might fall: but the LORD helped me.

118:14    耶和華是我的力量，是我的詩歌。他也成了我的拯救。
The LORD is my strength and song, and is become my salvation.

118:15    在義人的帳棚裡，有歡呼拯救的聲音。耶和華的右手施展大能。
The voice of rejoicing and salvation is in the tabernacles of the righteous: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.

118:16    耶和華的右手高舉。耶和華的右手施展大能。
The right hand of the LORD is exalted: the right hand of the LORD doeth valiantly.

118:17    我必不致死，仍要存活，並要傳揚耶和華的作為。
I shall not die, but live, and declare the works of the LORD.

118:18    耶和華雖嚴嚴地懲治我，卻未曾將我交於死亡。
The LORD hath chastened me sore: but he hath not given me over unto death.

118:19    給我敞開義門。我要進去稱謝耶和華。
Open to me the gates of righteousness: I will go into them, and I will praise the LORD:

118:20    這是耶和華的門。義人要進去。
This gate of the LORD, into which the righteous shall enter.

118:21    我要稱謝你，因為你已經應允我，又成了我的拯救。
I will praise thee: for thou hast heard me, and art become my salvation.

118:22    匠人所棄的石頭，已成了房角的頭塊石頭。
The stone which the builders refused is become the head stone of the corner.

118:23    這是耶和華所做的，在我們眼中看為希奇。
This is the LORD's doing; it is marvellous in our eyes.

118:24    這是耶和華所定的日子。我們在其中要高興歡喜。
This is the day which the LORD hath made; we will rejoice and be glad in it.

118:25    耶和華阿，求你拯救。耶和華阿，求你使我們亨通。
Save now, I beseech thee, O LORD: O LORD, I beseech thee, send now prosperity.

118:26    奉耶和華名來的，是應當稱頌的。我們從耶和華的殿中，為你們祝福。
Blessed be he that cometh in the name of the LORD: we have blessed you out of the house of the LORD.

118:27    耶和華是神。他光照了我們。理當用繩索把祭牲拴住，牽到壇角那裡。
God is the LORD, which hath shewed us light: bind the sacrifice with cords, even unto the horns of the altar.

118:28    你是我的神，我要稱謝你。你是我的神，我要尊崇你。
Thou art my God, and I will praise thee: thou art my God, I will exalt thee.

118:29    你們要稱謝耶和華，因他本為善。他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 119 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


119:1    行為完全，遵行耶和華律法的，這人便為有福。
Blessed are the undefiled in the way, who walk in the law of the LORD.

119:2    遵守他的法度，一心尋求他的，這人便為有福。
Blessed are they that keep his testimonies, and that seek him with the whole heart.

119:3    這人不做非義的事，但遵行他的道。
They also do no iniquity: they walk in his ways.

119:4    耶和華阿，你曾將你的訓詞吩咐我們，為要我們殷勤遵守。
Thou hast commanded us to keep thy precepts diligently.

119:5    但願我行事堅定，得以遵守你的律例。
O that my ways were directed to keep thy statutes!

119:6    我看重你的一切命令，就不至於羞愧。
Then shall I not be ashamed, when I have respect unto all thy commandments.

119:7    我學了你公義的判語，就要以正直的心稱謝你。
I will praise thee with uprightness of heart, when I shall have learned thy righteous judgments.

119:8    我必守你的律例。求你總不要丟棄我。
I will keep thy statutes: O forsake me not utterly.

119:9    少年人用什麼潔淨他的行為呢。是要遵行你的話。
Wherewithal shall a young man cleanse his way? by taking heed thereto according to thy word.

119:10    我一心尋求了你。求你不要叫我偏離你的命令。
With my whole heart have I sought thee: O let me not wander from thy commandments.

119:11    我將你的話藏在心裡，免得我得罪你。
Thy word have I hid in mine heart, that I might not sin against thee.

119:12    耶和華阿，你是應當稱頌的。求你將你的律例教訓我。
Blessed art thou, O LORD: teach me thy statutes.

119:13    我用嘴脣傳揚你口中的一切典章。
With my lips have I declared all the judgments of thy mouth.

119:14    我喜悅你的法度，如同喜悅一切的財物。
I have rejoiced in the way of thy testimonies, as much as in all riches.

119:15    我要默想你的訓詞，看重你的道路。
I will meditate in thy precepts, and have respect unto thy ways.

119:16    我要在你的律例中自樂。我不忘記你的話。
I will delight myself in thy statutes: I will not forget thy word.

119:17    求你用厚恩待你的僕人，使我存活。我就遵守你的話。
Deal bountifully with thy servant, that I may live, and keep thy word.

119:18    求你開我的眼睛，使我看出你律法中的奇妙。
Open thou mine eyes, that I may behold wondrous things out of thy law.

119:19    我是在地上作寄居的。求你不要向我隱瞞你的命令。
I am a stranger in the earth: hide not thy commandments from me.

119:20    我時常切慕你的典章，甚至心碎。
My soul breaketh for the longing that it hath unto thy judgments at all times.

119:21    受咒詛⑵離你命令的驕傲人，你已經責備他們。
Thou hast rebuked the proud that are cursed, which do err from thy commandments.

119:22    求你除掉我所受的羞辱和藐視。因我遵守你的法度。
Remove from me reproach and contempt; for I have kept thy testimonies.

119:23    雖有首領坐著妄論我。你僕人卻思想你的律例。
Princes also did sit and speak against me: but thy servant did meditate in thy statutes.



119:24    你的法度，是我所喜樂的，是我的謀士。
Thy testimonies also are my delight and my counsellors.

119:25    我的性命幾乎歸於塵土。求你照你的話，將我救活。
My soul cleaveth unto the dust: quicken thou me according to thy word.

119:26    我述說我所行的，你應允了我。求你將你的律例教訓我。
I have declared my ways, and thou heardest me: teach me thy statutes.

119:27    求你使我明白你的訓詞，我就思想你的奇事。
Make me to understand the way of thy precepts: so shall I talk of thy wondrous works.

119:28    我的心因愁苦而消化。求你照你的話使我堅立。
My soul melteth for heaviness: strengthen thou me according unto thy word.

119:29    求你使我離開奸詐的道，開恩將你的律法賜給我。
Remove from me the way of lying: and grant me thy law graciously.

119:30    我揀選了忠信的道，將你的典章擺在我面前。
I have chosen the way of truth: thy judgments have I laid before me.

119:31    我持守你的法度。耶和華阿，求你不要叫我羞愧。
I have stuck unto thy testimonies: O LORD, put me not to shame.

119:32    你開廣我心的時候，我就往你命令的道上直奔。
I will run the way of thy commandments, when thou shalt enlarge my heart.

119:33    耶和華阿，求你將你的律例指教我，我必遵守到底。
Teach me, O LORD, the way of thy statutes; and I shall keep it unto the end.

119:34    求你賜我悟性，我便遵守你的律法。且要一心遵守。
Give me understanding, and I shall keep thy law; yea, I shall observe it with my whole heart.

119:35    求你叫我遵行你的命令。因為這是我所喜樂的。
Make me to go in the path of thy commandments; for therein do I delight.

119:36    求你使我的心，趨向你的法度，不趨向非義之財。
Incline my heart unto thy testimonies, and not to covetousness.

119:37    求你叫我轉眼不看虛假，又叫我在你的道中生活。
Turn away mine eyes from beholding vanity; and quicken thou me in thy way.

119:38    你向敬畏你的人所應許的話，求你向僕人堅定。
Stablish thy word unto thy servant, who is devoted to thy fear.

119:39    求你使我所怕的羞辱遠離我，因你的典章本為美。
Turn away my reproach which I fear: for thy judgments are good.

119:40    我羨慕你的訓詞。求你使我在你的公義上生活。
Behold, I have longed after thy precepts: quicken me in thy righteousness.

119:41    耶和華阿，願你照你的話，使你的慈愛，就是你的救恩，臨到我身上。
Let thy mercies come also unto me, O LORD, even thy salvation, according to thy word.

119:42    我就有話回答那羞辱我的。因我倚靠你的話。
So shall I have wherewith to answer him that reproacheth me: for I trust in thy word.

119:43    求你叫真理的話，總不離開我口。因我仰望你的典章。
And take not the word of truth utterly out of my mouth; for I have hoped in thy judgments.

119:44    我要常守你的律法，直到永永遠遠。
So shall I keep thy law continually for ever and ever.

119:45    我要自由而行（或作我要行在寬闊之地）。因我素來考究你的訓詞。
And I will walk at liberty: for I seek thy precepts.

119:46    我也要在君王面前，論說你的法度，並不至於羞愧。
I will speak of thy testimonies also before kings, and will not be ashamed.

119:47    我要在你的命令中自樂。這命令素來是我所愛的。
And I will delight myself in thy commandments, which I have loved.

119:48    我又要遵行（原文作舉手）你的命令。這命令素來是我所愛的。我也要思想你的律例。
My hands also will I lift up unto thy commandments, which I have loved; and I will meditate in thy statutes.

119:49    求你記念向你僕人所應許的話，叫我有盼望。
Remember the word unto thy servant, upon which thou hast caused me to hope.

119:50    這話將我救活了。我在患難中，因此得安慰。
This is my comfort in my affliction: for thy word hath quickened me.

119:51    驕傲的人甚侮慢我。我卻未曾偏離你的律法。
The proud have had me greatly in derision: yet have I not declined from thy law.

119:52    耶和華阿，我記念你從古以來的典章，就得了安慰。
I remembered thy judgments of old, O LORD; and have comforted myself.

119:53    我見惡人離棄你的律法，就怒氣發作，猶如火燒。
Horror hath taken hold upon me because of the wicked that forsake thy law.

119:54    我在世寄居，素來以你的律例為詩歌。
Thy statutes have been my songs in the house of my pilgrimage.

119:55    耶和華阿，我夜間記念你的名，遵守你的律法。
I have remembered thy name, O LORD, in the night, and have kept thy law.

119:56    我所以如此，是因我守你的訓詞。
This I had, because I kept thy precepts.

119:57    耶和華是我的福分。我曾說，我要遵守你的言語。
Thou art my portion, O LORD: I have said that I would keep thy words.

119:58    我一心求過你的恩。願你照你的話憐憫我。
I intreated thy favour with my whole heart: be merciful unto me according to thy word.

119:59    我思想我所行的道，就轉步歸向你的法度。
I thought on my ways, and turned my feet unto thy testimonies.

119:60    我急忙遵守你的命令，並不遲延。
I made haste, and delayed not to keep thy commandments.

119:61    惡人的繩索纏繞我。我卻沒有忘記你的律法。
The bands of the wicked have robbed me: but I have not forgotten thy law.

119:62    我因你公義的典章，半夜必起來稱謝你。
At midnight I will rise to give thanks unto thee because of thy righteous judgments.

119:63    凡敬畏你，守你訓詞的人，我都與他作伴。
I am a companion of all them that fear thee, and of them that keep thy precepts.

119:64    耶和華阿，你的慈愛遍滿大地。求你將你的律例教訓我。
The earth, O LORD, is full of thy mercy: teach me thy statutes.

119:65    耶和華阿，你向來是照你的話善待僕人。
Thou hast dealt well with thy servant, O LORD, according unto thy word.

119:66    求你將精明和知識賜給我。因我信了你的命令。
Teach me good judgment and knowledge: for I have believed thy commandments.

119:67    我未受苦以先，走迷了路，現在卻遵守你的話。
Before I was afflicted I went astray: but now have I kept thy word.

119:68    你本為善，所行的也善。求你將你的律例教訓我。
Thou art good, and doest good; teach me thy statutes.

119:69    驕傲人編造謊言攻擊我。我卻要一心守你的訓詞。
The proud have forged a lie against me: but I will keep thy precepts with my whole heart.

119:70    他們心蒙脂油。我卻喜愛你的律法。
Their heart is as fat as grease; but I delight in thy law.

119:71    我受苦是與我有益，為要使我學習你的律例。
It is good for me that I have been afflicted; that I might learn thy statutes.

119:72    你口中的訓言（或作律法），與我有益，勝於千萬的金銀。
The law of thy mouth is better unto me than thousands of gold and silver.



119:73    你的手製造我，建立我。求你賜我悟性，可以學習你的命令。
Thy hands have made me and fashioned me: give me understanding, that I may learn thy commandments.

119:74    敬畏你的人見我，就要歡喜。因我仰望你的話。
They that fear thee will be glad when they see me; because I have hoped in thy word.

119:75    耶和華阿，我知道你的判語是公義的。你使我受苦，是以誠實待我。
I know, O LORD, that thy judgments are right, and that thou in faithfulness hast afflicted me.

119:76    求你照著應許僕人的話，以慈愛安慰我。
Let, I pray thee, thy merciful kindness be for my comfort, according to thy word unto thy servant.

119:77    願你的慈悲臨到我，使我存活。因你的律法是我所喜愛的。
Let thy tender mercies come unto me, that I may live: for thy law is my delight.

119:78    願驕傲人蒙羞。因為他們無理地傾覆我。但我要思想你的訓詞。
Let the proud be ashamed; for they dealt perversely with me without a cause: but I will meditate in thy precepts.

119:79    願敬畏你的人歸向我，他們就知道你的法度。
Let those that fear thee turn unto me, and those that have known thy testimonies.

119:80    願我的心在你的律例上完全，使我不致蒙羞。
Let my heart be sound in thy statutes; that I be not ashamed.

119:81    我心渴想你的救恩，仰望你的應許。
My soul fainteth for thy salvation: but I hope in thy word.

119:82    我因盼望你的應許，眼睛失明，說，你何時安慰我。
Mine eyes fail for thy word, saying, When wilt thou comfort me?

119:83    我好像煙薰的皮袋。卻不忘記你的律例。
For I am become like a bottle in the smoke; yet do I not forget thy statutes.

119:84    你僕人的年日有多少呢。你幾時向逼迫我的人施行審判呢。
How many are the days of thy servant? when wilt thou execute judgment on them that persecute me?

119:85    不從你律法的驕傲人，為我掘了坑。
The proud have digged pits for me, which are not after thy law.

119:86    你的命令盡都誠實。他們無理地逼迫我，求你幫助我。
All thy commandments are faithful: they persecute me wrongfully; help thou me.

119:87    他們幾乎把我從世上滅絕，但我沒有離棄你的訓詞。
They had almost consumed me upon earth; but I forsook not thy precepts.

119:88    求你照你的慈愛將我救活。我就遵守你口中的法度。
Quicken me after thy lovingkindness; so shall I keep the testimony of thy mouth.

119:89    耶和華阿，你的話安定在天，直到永遠。
For ever, O LORD, thy word is settled in heaven.

119:90    你的誠實存到萬代。你堅定了地，地就長存。
Thy faithfulness is unto all generations: thou hast established the earth, and it abideth.

119:91    天地照你的安排，存到今日。萬物都是你的僕役。
They continue this day according to thine ordinances: for all are thy servants.

119:92    我若不是喜愛你的律法，早就在苦難中滅絕了。
Unless thy law had been my delights, I should then have perished in mine affliction.

119:93    我永不忘記你的訓詞。因你用這訓詞將我救活了。
I will never forget thy precepts: for with them thou hast quickened me.

119:94    我是屬你的，求你救我，因我尋求了你的訓詞。
I am thine, save me; for I have sought thy precepts.

119:95    惡人等待我，要滅絕我，我卻要揣摩你的法度。
The wicked have waited for me to destroy me: but I will consider thy testimonies.

119:96    我看萬事盡都有限。惟有你的命令，極其寬廣。
I have seen an end of all perfection: but thy commandment is exceeding broad.

119:97    我何等愛慕你的律法，終日不住地思想。
O how love I thy law! it is my meditation all the day.

119:98    你的命令常存在我心裡，使我比仇敵有智慧。
Thou through thy commandments hast made me wiser than mine enemies: for they are ever with me.

119:99    我比我的師傅更通達。因我思想你的法度。
I have more understanding than all my teachers: for thy testimonies are my meditation.

119:100    我比年老的更明白，因我守了你的訓詞。
I understand more than the ancients, because I keep thy precepts.

119:101    我禁止我腳走一切的邪路，為要遵守你的話。
I have refrained my feet from every evil way, that I might keep thy word.

119:102    我沒有偏離你的典章，因為你教訓了我。
I have not departed from thy judgments: for thou hast taught me.

119:103    你的言語，在我上膛何等甘美。在我口中比蜜更甜。
How sweet are thy words unto my taste! yea, sweeter than honey to my mouth!

119:104    我藉著你的訓詞，得以明白。所以我恨一切的假道。
Through thy precepts I get understanding: therefore I hate every false way.

119:105    你的話是我腳前的燈，是我路上的光。
Thy word is a lamp unto my feet, and a light unto my path.

119:106    你公義的典章，我曾起誓遵守，我必按誓而行。
I have sworn, and I will perform it, that I will keep thy righteous judgments.

119:107    我甚是受苦。耶和華阿，求你照你的話將我救活。
I am afflicted very much: quicken me, O LORD, according unto thy word.

119:108    耶和華阿，求你悅納我口中的讚美為供物，又將你的典章教訓我。
Accept, I beseech thee, the freewill offerings of my mouth, O LORD, and teach me thy judgments.

119:109    我的性命常在危險之中，我卻不忘記你的律法。
My soul is continually in my hand: yet do I not forget thy law.

119:110    惡人為我設下網羅。我卻沒有偏離你的訓詞。
The wicked have laid a snare for me: yet I erred not from thy precepts.

119:111    我以你的法度為永遠的產業。因這是我心中所喜愛的。
Thy testimonies have I taken as an heritage for ever: for they are the rejoicing of my heart.

119:112    我的心專向你的律例，永遠遵行，一直到底。
I have inclined mine heart to perform thy statutes alway, even unto the end.

119:113    心懷二意的人，為我所恨。但你的律法，為我所愛。
I hate vain thoughts: but thy law do I love.

119:114    你是我藏身之處，又是我的盾牌。我甚仰望你的話語。
Thou art my hiding place and my shield: I hope in thy word.

119:115    作惡的人哪，你們離開我吧，我好遵守我神的命令。
Depart from me, ye evildoers: for I will keep the commandments of my God.

119:116    求你照你的話扶持我，使我存活，也不叫我因失望而害羞。
Uphold me according unto thy word, that I may live: and let me not be ashamed of my hope.

119:117    求你扶持我，我便得救，時常看重你的律例。
Hold thou me up, and I shall be safe: and I will have respect unto thy statutes continually.

119:118    凡偏離你律例的人，你都輕棄他們。因為他們的詭詐必歸虛空。
Thou hast trodden down all them that err from thy statutes: for their deceit is falsehood.

119:119    凡地上的惡人，你除掉他，好像除掉渣滓。因此我愛你的法度。
Thou puttest away all the wicked of the earth like dross: therefore I love thy testimonies.

119:120    我因懼怕你，肉就發抖。我也怕你的判語。
My flesh trembleth for fear of thee; and I am afraid of thy judgments.

119:121    我行過公平和公義。求你不要撇下我給欺壓我的人。
I have done judgment and justice: leave me not to mine oppressors.

119:122    求你為僕人作保，使我得好處。不容驕傲人欺壓我。
Be surety for thy servant for good: let not the proud oppress me.

119:123    我因盼望你的救恩，和你公義的話，眼睛失明。
Mine eyes fail for thy salvation, and for the word of thy righteousness.



119:124    求你照你的慈愛待僕人，將你的律例教訓我。
Deal with thy servant according unto thy mercy, and teach me thy statutes.

119:125    我是你的僕人。求你賜我悟性，使我得知你的法度。
I am thy servant; give me understanding, that I may know thy testimonies.

119:126    這是耶和華降罰的時候，因人廢了你的律法。
It is time for thee, LORD, to work: for they have made void thy law.

119:127    所以，我愛你的命令勝於金子，更勝於精金。
Therefore I love thy commandments above gold; yea, above fine gold.

119:128    你一切的訓詞，在萬事上我都以為正直。我卻恨惡一切假道。
Therefore I esteem all thy precepts concerning all things to be right; and I hate every false way.

119:129    你的法度奇妙，所以我一心謹守。
Thy testimonies are wonderful: therefore doth my soul keep them.

119:130    你的言語一解開，就發出亮光，使愚人通達。
The entrance of thy words giveth light; it giveth understanding unto the simple.

119:131    我張口而氣喘。因我切慕你的命令。
I opened my mouth, and panted: for I longed for thy commandments.

119:132    求你轉向我，憐憫我，好像你素常待那些愛你名的人。
Look thou upon me, and be merciful unto me, as thou usest to do unto those that love thy name.

119:133    求你用你的話，使我腳步穩當，不許什麼罪孽轄制我。
Order my steps in thy word: and let not any iniquity have dominion over me.

119:134    求你救我脫離人的欺壓。我要遵守你的訓詞。
Deliver me from the oppression of man: so will I keep thy precepts.

119:135    求你用臉光照僕人。又將你的律例教訓我。
Make thy face to shine upon thy servant; and teach me thy statutes.

119:136    我的眼淚下流成河，因為他們不守你的律法。
Rivers of waters run down mine eyes, because they keep not thy law.

119:137    耶和華阿，你是公義的，你的判語也是正直的。
Righteous art thou, O LORD, and upright are thy judgments.

119:138    你所命定的法度，是憑公義和至誠。
Thy testimonies that thou hast commanded are righteous and very faithful.

119:139    我心焦急，如同火燒，因我敵人忘記你的言語。
My zeal hath consumed me, because mine enemies have forgotten thy words.

119:140    你的話極其精煉。所以你的僕人喜愛。
Thy word is very pure: therefore thy servant loveth it.

119:141    我微小，被人藐視。卻不忘記你的訓詞。
I am small and despised: yet do not I forget thy precepts.

119:142    你的公義永遠長存。你的律法盡都真實。
Thy righteousness is an everlasting righteousness, and thy law is the truth.

119:143    我遭遇患難愁苦。你的命令卻是我所喜愛的。
Trouble and anguish have taken hold on me: yet thy commandments are my delights.

119:144    你的法度永遠是公義的。求你賜我悟性，我就活了。
The righteousness of thy testimonies is everlasting: give me understanding, and I shall live.

119:145    耶和華阿，我一心呼籲你。求你應允我，我必謹守你的律例。
I cried with my whole heart; hear me, O LORD: I will keep thy statutes.

119:146    我向你呼籲，求你救我。我要遵守你的法度。
I cried unto thee; save me, and I shall keep thy testimonies.

119:147    我趁天未亮呼求。我仰望了你的言語。
I prevented the dawning of the morning, and cried: I hoped in thy word.

119:148    我趁夜更未換，將眼睜開，為要思想你的話語。
Mine eyes prevent the night watches, that I might meditate in thy word.

119:149    求你照你的慈愛聽我的聲音。耶和華阿，求你照你的典章，將我救活。
Hear my voice according unto thy lovingkindness: O LORD, quicken me according to thy judgment.

119:150    追求奸惡的人臨近了。他們遠離你的律法。
They draw nigh that follow after mischief: they are far from thy law.

119:151    耶和華阿，你與我相近。你一切的命令盡都真實。
Thou art near, O LORD; and all thy commandments are truth.

119:152    我因學你的法度，久已知道是你永遠立定的。
Concerning thy testimonies, I have known of old that thou hast founded them for ever.

119:153    求你看顧我的苦難，搭救我，因我不忘記你的律法。
Consider mine affliction, and deliver me: for I do not forget thy law.

119:154    求你為我辨屈，救贖我，照你的話將我救活。
Plead my cause, and deliver me: quicken me according to thy word.

119:155    救恩遠離惡人。因為他們不尋求你的律例。
Salvation is far from the wicked: for they seek not thy statutes.

119:156    耶和華阿，你的慈悲本為大。求你照你的典章將我救活。
Great are thy tender mercies, O LORD: quicken me according to thy judgments.

119:157    逼迫我的，抵擋我的，很多，我卻沒有偏離你的法度。
Many are my persecutors and mine enemies; yet do I not decline from thy testimonies.

119:158    我看見奸惡的人，就甚憎惡，因為他們不遵守你的話。
I beheld the transgressors, and was grieved; because they kept not thy word.

119:159    你看我怎樣愛你的訓詞。耶和華阿，求你照你的慈愛將我救活。
Consider how I love thy precepts: quicken me, O LORD, according to thy lovingkindness.

119:160    你話的總綱是真實。你一切公義的典章是永遠長存。
Thy word is true from the beginning: and every one of thy righteous judgments endureth for ever.

119:161    首領無故地逼迫我。但我的心畏懼你的言語。
Princes have persecuted me without a cause: but my heart standeth in awe of thy word.

119:162    我喜愛你的話，好像人得了許多擄物。
I rejoice at thy word, as one that findeth great spoil.

119:163    謊話是我所恨惡所憎嫌的。惟你的律法，是我所愛的。
I hate and abhor lying: but thy law do I love.

119:164    我因你公義的典章，一天七次讚美你。
Seven times a day do I praise thee because of thy righteous judgments.

119:165    愛你律法的人，有大平安。什麼都不能使他們絆腳。
Great peace have they which love thy law: and nothing shall offend them.

119:166    耶和華阿，我仰望了你的救恩，遵行了你的命令。
LORD, I have hoped for thy salvation, and done thy commandments.

119:167    我心裡守了你的法度。這法度我甚喜愛。
My soul hath kept thy testimonies; and I love them exceedingly.

119:168    我遵守了你的訓詞和法度。因我一切所行的，都在你面前。
I have kept thy precepts and thy testimonies: for all my ways are before thee.

119:169    耶和華阿，願我的呼籲達到你面前，照你的話賜我悟性。
Let my cry come near before thee, O LORD: give me understanding according to thy word.

119:170    願我的懇求達到你面前，照你的話搭救我。
Let my supplication come before thee: deliver me according to thy word.

119:171    願我的嘴發出讚美的話。因為你將律例教訓我。
My lips shall utter praise, when thou hast taught me thy statutes.

119:172    願我的舌頭歌唱你的話。因你一切的命令盡都公義。
My tongue shall speak of thy word: for all thy commandments are righteousness.

119:173    願你用手幫助我。因我揀選了你的訓詞。
Let thine hand help me; for I have chosen thy precepts.

119:174    耶和華阿，我切慕你的救恩。你的律法也是我所喜愛的。
I have longed for thy salvation, O LORD; and thy law is my delight.

119:175    願我的性命存活，得以讚美你。願你的典章幫助我。
Let my soul live, and it shall praise thee; and let thy judgments help me.

119:176    我如亡羊走迷了路。求你尋梢僕人。因我不忘記你的命令。
I have gone astray like a lost sheep; seek thy servant; for I do not forget thy commandments.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 120 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


120:1    （上行（或作登階下同）之詩我在急難中求告耶和華，他就應允我。
In my distress I cried unto the LORD, and he heard me.

120:2    耶和華阿，求你救我脫離說謊的嘴脣，和詭詐的舌頭。
Deliver my soul, O LORD, from lying lips, and from a deceitful tongue.

120:3    詭詐的舌頭阿，要給你什麼呢。要拿什麼加給你呢。
What shall be given unto thee? or what shall be done unto thee, thou false tongue?

120:4    就是勇士的利箭，和羅騰木（小樹名松類）的炭火。
Sharp arrows of the mighty, with coals of juniper.

120:5    我寄居在米設，住在基達帳棚之中，有禍了。
Woe is me, that I sojourn in Mesech, that I dwell in the tents of Kedar!

120:6    我與那恨惡和睦的人，許久同住。
My soul hath long dwelt with him that hateth peace.

120:7    我願和睦。但我發言，他們就要爭戰。
I am for peace: but when I speak, they are for war.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 121 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


121:1    （上行之詩）我要向山舉目。我的幫助從何而來。
I will lift up mine eyes unto the hills, from whence cometh my help.

121:2    我的幫助從造天地的耶和華而來。
My help cometh from the LORD, which made heaven and earth.

121:3    他必不叫你的腳搖動。保護你的必不打盹。
He will not suffer thy foot to be moved: he that keepeth thee will not slumber.

121:4    保護以色列的，也不打盹，也不睡覺。
Behold, he that keepeth Israel shall neither slumber nor sleep.

121:5    保護你的是耶和華。耶和華在你的右邊蔭庇你。
The LORD is thy keeper: the LORD is thy shade upon thy right hand.

121:6    白日太陽必不傷你，夜間月亮必不害你。
The sun shall not smite thee by day, nor the moon by night.

121:7    耶和華要保護你，免受一切的災害。他要保護你的性命。
The LORD shall preserve thee from all evil: he shall preserve thy soul.

121:8    你出你入耶和華要保護你，從今時直到永遠。
The LORD shall preserve thy going out and thy coming in from this time forth, and even for evermore.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 122 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


122:1    （大衛上行之詩）人對我說，我們往耶和華的殿去，我就歡喜。
I was glad when they said unto me, Let us go into the house of the LORD.

122:2    耶路撒冷阿，我們的腳站在你的門內。
Our feet shall stand within thy gates, O Jerusalem.

122:3    耶路撒冷被建造，如同連絡整齊的一座城。
Jerusalem is builded as a city that is compact together:

122:4    眾支派，就是耶和華的支派，上那裡去，按以色列的常例（或作作以色列的證據）稱讚耶和華的名。
Whither the tribes go up, the tribes of the LORD, unto the testimony of Israel, to give thanks unto the name of the LORD.

122:5    因為在那裡設立審判的寶座，就是大衛家的寶座。
For there are set thrones of judgment, the thrones of the house of David.

122:6    你們要為耶路撒冷求平安。耶路撒冷阿，愛你的人必然興旺。
Pray for the peace of Jerusalem: they shall prosper that love thee.

122:7    願你城中平安，願你宮內興旺。
Peace be within thy walls, and prosperity within thy palaces.

122:8    因我弟兄和同伴的緣故，我要說，願平安在你中間。
For my brethren and companions' sakes, I will now say, Peace be within thee.

122:9    因耶和華我們神殿的緣故，我要為你求福。
Because of the house of the LORD our God I will seek thy good.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 123 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


123:1    （上行之詩）坐在天上的主阿，我向你舉目。
Unto thee lift I up mine eyes, O thou that dwellest in the heavens.

123:2    看哪，僕人的眼睛怎樣望主人的手，使女的眼睛怎樣望主母的手，我們的眼睛也照樣望耶和華我們的神，直到他憐憫我們。
Behold, as the eyes of servants look unto the hand of their masters, and as the eyes of a maiden unto the hand of her mistress; so our eyes wait upon the LORD our God, until that he have mercy upon us.

123:3    耶和華阿，求你憐憫我們，憐憫我們。因為我們被藐視，已到極處。
Have mercy upon us, O LORD, have mercy upon us: for we are exceedingly filled with contempt.

123:4    我們被那些安逸人的譏誚，和驕傲人的藐視，已到極處。
Our soul is exceedingly filled with the scorning of those that are at ease, and with the contempt of the proud.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 124 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


124:1    （大衛上行之詩）以色列人要說，若不是耶和華幫助我們，
If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, now may Israel say;

124:2    若不是耶和華幫助我們，當人起來攻擊我們，
If it had not been the LORD who was on our side, when men rose up against us:

124:3    向我們發怒的時候，就把我們活活地吞了。
Then they had swallowed us up quick, when their wrath was kindled against us:

124:4    那時，波濤必漫過我們，河水必淹沒我們。
Then the waters had overwhelmed us, the stream had gone over our soul:

124:5    狂傲的水必淹沒我們。
Then the proud waters had gone over our soul.

124:6    耶和華是應當稱頌的。他沒有把我們當野食交給他們吞吃（原文作牙齒）。
Blessed be the LORD, who hath not given us as a prey to their teeth.

124:7    我們好像雀鳥，從捕鳥人的網羅裡逃脫。網羅破裂，我們逃脫了。
Our soul is escaped as a bird out of the snare of the fowlers: the snare is broken, and we are escaped.

124:8    我們得幫助，是在乎倚靠造天地之耶和華的名。
Our help is in the name of the LORD, who made heaven and earth.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 125 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


125:1    （上行之詩）倚靠耶和華的人，好像錫安山，永不動搖。
They that trust in the LORD shall be as mount Zion, which cannot be removed, but abideth for ever.

125:2    眾山怎樣圍繞耶路撒冷，耶和華也照樣圍繞他的百姓，從今時直到永遠。
As the mountains are round about Jerusalem, so the LORD is round about his people from henceforth even for ever.

125:3    惡人的杖不常落在義人的分上，免得義人伸手作惡。
For the rod of the wicked shall not rest upon the lot of the righteous; lest the righteous put forth their hands unto iniquity.

125:4    耶和華阿，求你善待那些為善，和心裡正直的人。
Do good, O LORD, unto those that be good, and to them that are upright in their hearts.

125:5    至於那偏行彎曲道路的人，耶和華必使他和作惡的人一同出去受刑。願平安歸於以色列。
As for such as turn aside unto their crooked ways, the LORD shall lead them forth with the workers of iniquity: but peace shall be upon Israel.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 126 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


126:1    （上行之詩）當耶和華將那些被擄的帶回錫安的時候，我們好像做夢的人。
When the LORD turned again the captivity of Zion, we were like them that dream.

126:2    我們滿口喜笑，滿舌歡呼的時候，外邦中就有人說，耶和華為他們行了大事。
Then was our mouth filled with laughter, and our tongue with singing: then said they among the heathen, The LORD hath done great things for them.

126:3    耶和華果然為我們行了大事，我們就歡喜。
The LORD hath done great things for us; whereof we are glad.

126:4    耶和華阿，求你使我們被擄的人歸回，好像南地的河水複流。
Turn again our captivity, O LORD, as the streams in the south.

126:5    流淚撒種的，必歡呼收割。
They that sow in tears shall reap in joy.

126:6    那帶種流淚出去的，必要歡歡樂樂地帶禾捆回來。
He that goeth forth and weepeth, bearing precious seed, shall doubtless come again with rejoicing, bringing his sheaves with him.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 127 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


127:1    （所羅門上行之詩）若不是耶和華建造房屋，建造的人就枉然勞力。若不是耶和華看守城池，看守的人就枉然警醒。
Except the LORD build the house, they labour in vain that build it: except the LORD keep the city, the watchman waketh but in vain.

127:2    你們清晨早起，夜晚安歇，吃勞碌得來的飯，本是枉然。惟有耶和華所親愛的，必叫他安然睡覺。
It is vain for you to rise up early, to sit up late, to eat the bread of sorrows: for so he giveth his beloved sleep.

127:3    兒女是耶和華所賜的產業。所懷的胎是他所給的賞賜。
Lo, children are an heritage of the LORD: and the fruit of the womb is his reward.

127:4    少年時所生的兒女，好像勇士手中的箭。
As arrows are in the hand of a mighty man; so are children of the youth.

127:5    箭袋充滿的人便為有福。他們在城門口和仇敵說話的時候，必不至於羞愧。
Happy is the man that hath his quiver full of them: they shall not be ashamed, but they shall speak with the enemies in the gate.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 128 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


128:1    （上行之詩）凡敬畏耶和華，遵行他道的人便為有福。
Blessed is every one that feareth the LORD; that walketh in his ways.

128:2    你要吃勞碌得來的。你要享福，事情順利。
For thou shalt eat the labour of thine hands: happy shalt thou be, and it shall be well with thee.

128:3    你妻子在你的內室，好像多結果子的葡萄樹。你兒女圍繞你的桌子，好像橄欖栽子。
Thy wife shall be as a fruitful vine by the sides of thine house: thy children like olive plants round about thy table.

128:4    看哪，敬畏耶和華的人，必要這樣蒙福。
Behold, that thus shall the man be blessed that feareth the LORD.

128:5    願耶和華從錫安賜福給你。願你一生一世，看見耶路撒冷的好處。
The LORD shall bless thee out of Zion: and thou shalt see the good of Jerusalem all the days of thy life.

128:6    願你看見你兒女的兒女。願平安歸於以色列。
Yea, thou shalt see thy children's children, and peace upon Israel.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 129 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


129:1    （上行之詩）以色列當說，從我幼年以來，敵人屢次苦害我，
Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth, may Israel now say:

129:2    從我幼年以來，敵人屢次苦害我，卻沒有勝了我。
Many a time have they afflicted me from my youth: yet they have not prevailed against me.

129:3    如同扶犁的在我背上扶犁而耕，耕的犁溝甚長。
The plowers plowed upon my back: they made long their furrows.

129:4    耶和華是公義的。他砍斷了惡人的繩索。
The LORD is righteous: he hath cut asunder the cords of the wicked.

129:5    願恨惡錫安的，都蒙羞退後。
Let them all be confounded and turned back that hate Zion.

129:6    願他們像房頂上的草，未長成而枯乾。
Let them be as the grass upon the housetops, which withereth afore it groweth up:

129:7    收割的不夠一把，捆禾的也不滿懷。
Wherewith the mower filleth not his hand; nor he that bindeth sheaves his bosom.

129:8    過路的也不說，願耶和華所賜的福，歸與你們。我們奉耶和華的名，給你們祝福。
Neither do they which go by say, The blessing of the LORD be upon you: we bless you in the name of the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 130 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


130:1    （上行之詩）耶和華阿，我從深處向你求告。
Out of the depths have I cried unto thee, O LORD.

130:2    主阿，求你聽我的聲音。願你側耳聽我懇求的聲音。
Lord, hear my voice: let thine ears be attentive to the voice of my supplications.

130:3    主耶和華阿，你若究察罪孽，誰能站得住呢。
If thou, LORD, shouldest mark iniquities, O Lord, who shall stand?

130:4    但在你有赦免之恩，要叫人敬畏你。
But there is forgiveness with thee, that thou mayest be feared.

130:5    我等候耶和華，我的心等候。我也仰望他的話。
I wait for the LORD, my soul doth wait, and in his word do I hope.

130:6    我的心等候主，勝於守夜的，等候天亮，勝於守夜的，等候天亮。
My soul waiteth for the Lord more than they that watch for the morning: I say, more than they that watch for the morning.

130:7    以色列阿，你當仰望耶和華。因他有慈愛，有豐盛的救恩。
Let Israel hope in the LORD: for with the LORD there is mercy, and with him is plenteous redemption.

130:8    他必救贖以色列脫離一切的罪孽。
And he shall redeem Israel from all his iniquities.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 131 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


131:1    （大衛上行之詩）耶和華阿，我的心不狂傲，我的眼不高大。重大和測不透的事，我也不敢行。
Lord, my heart is not haughty, nor mine eyes lofty: neither do I exercise myself in great matters, or in things too high for me.

131:2    我的心平穩安靜，好像斷過奶的孩子在他母親的懷中。我的心在我裡面真像斷過奶的孩子。
Surely I have behaved and quieted myself, as a child that is weaned of his mother: my soul is even as a weaned child.

131:3    以色列阿，你當仰望耶和華，從今時直到永遠。
Let Israel hope in the LORD from henceforth and for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 132 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


132:1    （上行之詩）耶和華阿，求你記念大衛所受的一切苦難。
Lord, remember David, and all his afflictions:

132:2    他怎樣向耶和華起誓，向雅各的大能者許願，
How he sware unto the LORD, and vowed unto the mighty God of Jacob;

132:3    說，我必不進我的帳幕，也不上我的床榻。
Surely I will not come into the tabernacle of my house, nor go up into my bed;

132:4    我不容我的眼睛睡覺，也不容我的眼目打盹。
I will not give sleep to mine eyes, or slumber to mine eyelids,

132:5    直等我為耶和華尋得所在，為雅各的大能者尋得居所。
Until I find out a place for the LORD, an habitation for the mighty God of Jacob.

132:6    我們聽說約櫃在以法他，我們在基列耶琳就尋見了。
Lo, we heard of it at Ephratah: we found it in the fields of the wood.

132:7    我們要進他的居所，在他腳凳前下拜。
We will go into his tabernacles: we will worship at his footstool.

132:8    耶和華阿，求你興起，和你有能力的約櫃同入安息之所。
Arise, O LORD, into thy rest; thou, and the ark of thy strength.

132:9    願你的祭司披上公義。願你的聖民歡呼。
Let thy priests be clothed with righteousness; and let thy saints shout for joy.

132:10    求你因你僕人大衛的緣故，不要厭棄你的受膏者。
For thy servant David's sake turn not away the face of thine anointed.

132:11    耶和華向大衛，憑誠實起了誓，必不反覆，說，我要使你所生的坐在你的寶座上。
The LORD hath sworn in truth unto David; he will not turn from it; Of the fruit of thy body will I set upon thy throne.

132:12    你的眾子若守我的約，和我所教訓他們的法度，他們的子孫，必永遠坐在你的寶座上。
If thy children will keep my covenant and my testimony that I shall teach them, their children shall also sit upon thy throne for evermore.

132:13    因為耶和華揀選了錫安，願意當作自己的居所，
For the LORD hath chosen Zion; he hath desired it for his habitation.

132:14    說，這是我永遠安息之所。我要住在這裡，因為是我所願意的。
This is my rest for ever: here will I dwell; for I have desired it.

132:15    我要使其中的糧食豐滿，使其中的窮人飽足。
I will abundantly bless her provision: I will satisfy her poor with bread.

132:16    我要使祭司披上救恩，聖民大聲歡呼。
I will also clothe her priests with salvation: and her saints shall shout aloud for joy.

132:17    我要叫大衛的角，在那裡發生。我為我的受膏者，預備明燈。
There will I make the horn of David to bud: I have ordained a lamp for mine anointed.

132:18    我要使他的仇敵披上羞恥。但他的冠冕，要在頭上發光。
His enemies will I clothe with shame: but upon himself shall his crown flourish.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 133 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


133:1    （大衛上行之詩）看哪，弟兄和睦同居，是何等地善，何等地美。
Behold, how good and how pleasant it is for brethren to dwell together in unity!

133:2    這好比那貴重的油，澆在亞倫的頭上，流到鬍鬚，又流到他的衣襟。
It is like the precious ointment upon the head, that ran down upon the beard, even Aaron's beard: that went down to the skirts of his garments;

133:3    又好比黑門的甘露，降在錫安山。因為在那裡有耶和華所命定的福，就是永遠的生命。
As the dew of Hermon, and as the dew that descended upon the mountains of Zion: for there the LORD commanded the blessing, even life for evermore.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 134 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


134:1    （上行之詩）耶和華的僕人，夜間站在耶和華殿中的，你們當稱頌耶和華。
Behold, bless ye the LORD, all ye servants of the LORD, which by night stand in the house of the LORD.

134:2    你們當向聖所舉手，稱頌耶和華。
Lift up your hands in the sanctuary, and bless the LORD.

134:3    願造天地的耶和華，從錫安賜福給你們。
The LORD that made heaven and earth bless thee out of Zion.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 135 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


135:1    你們要讚美耶和華。你們要讚美耶和華的名。
Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the name of the LORD; praise him, O ye servants of the LORD.

135:2    耶和華的僕人站在耶和華殿中，站在我們神殿院中的，你們要讚美他。
Ye that stand in the house of the LORD, in the courts of the house of our God,

135:3    你們要讚美耶和華。耶和華本為善。要歌頌他的名，因為這是美好的。
Praise the LORD; for the LORD is good: sing praises unto his name; for it is pleasant.

135:4    耶和華揀選雅各歸自己，揀選以色列特作自己的子民。
For the LORD hath chosen Jacob unto himself, and Israel for his peculiar treasure.

135:5    原來我知道耶和華為大，也知道我們的主超乎萬神之上。
For I know that the LORD is great, and that our Lord is above all gods.

135:6    耶和華在天上，在地下，在海中，在一切的深處，都隨自己的意旨而行。
Whatsoever the LORD pleased, that did he in heaven, and in earth, in the seas, and all deep places.

135:7    他使雲霧從地極上騰，造電隨雨而閃，從府庫中帶出風來。
He causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings for the rain; he bringeth the wind out of his treasuries.

135:8    他將埃及頭生的，連人帶牲畜都擊殺了。
Who smote the firstborn of Egypt, both of man and beast.

135:9    埃及阿，他施行神蹟奇事，在你當中，在法老和他一切臣僕身上。
Who sent tokens and wonders into the midst of thee, O Egypt, upon Pharaoh, and upon all his servants.

135:10    他擊殺許多的民，又殺戮大能的王，
Who smote great nations, and slew mighty kings;

135:11    就是亞摩利王西巨集，和巴珊王噩，並迦南一切的國王，
Sihon king of the Amorites, and Og king of Bashan, and all the kingdoms of Canaan:

135:12    將他們的地，賞賜他的百姓以色列為業。
And gave their land for an heritage, an heritage unto Israel his people.

135:13    耶和華阿，你的名存到永遠。耶和華阿，你可記念的名存到萬代。
Thy name, O LORD, endureth for ever; and thy memorial, O LORD, throughout all generations.

135:14    耶和華要為他的百姓伸冤，為他的僕人後悔。
For the LORD will judge his people, and he will repent himself concerning his servants.

135:15    外邦的偶像是金的，銀的，是人手所造的。
The idols of the heathen are silver and gold, the work of men's hands.

135:16    有口卻不能言，有眼卻不能看，
They have mouths, but they speak not; eyes have they, but they see not;

135:17    有耳卻不能聽，口中也沒有氣息。
They have ears, but they hear not; neither is there any breath in their mouths.

135:18    造他的要和他一樣，凡靠他的也要如此。
They that make them are like unto them: so is every one that trusteth in them.

135:19    以色列家阿，你們要稱頌耶和華。亞倫家阿，你們要稱頌耶和華。
Bless the LORD, O house of Israel: bless the LORD, O house of Aaron:

135:20    利未家阿，你們要稱頌耶和華。你們敬畏耶和華的，要稱頌耶和華。
Bless the LORD, O house of Levi: ye that fear the LORD, bless the LORD.

135:21    住在耶路撒冷的耶和華，該從錫安受稱頌。你們要讚美耶和華。
Blessed be the LORD out of Zion, which dwelleth at Jerusalem. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 136 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


136:1    你們要稱謝耶和華，因他本為善。他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the LORD; for he is good: for his mercy endureth for ever.



136:2    你們要稱謝萬神之神，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the God of gods: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:3    你們要稱謝萬主之主，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks to the Lord of lords: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:4    稱謝那獨行大奇事的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him who alone doeth great wonders: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:5    稱謝那用智慧造天的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him that by wisdom made the heavens: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:6    稱謝那鋪地在水以上的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him that stretched out the earth above the waters: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:7    稱謝那造成大光的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him that made great lights: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:8    他造日頭管白晝，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
The sun to rule by day: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:9    他造月亮星宿管黑夜，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
The moon and stars to rule by night: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:10    稱謝那擊殺埃及人之長子的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him that smote Egypt in their firstborn: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:11    他領以色列人從他們中間出來，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And brought out Israel from among them: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:12    他施展大能的手和伸出來的膀臂，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
With a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:13    稱謝那分裂紅海的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him which divided the Red sea into parts: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:14    他領以色列從其中經過，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And made Israel to pass through the midst of it: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:15    卻把法老和他的軍兵推翻在紅海里，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red sea: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:16    稱謝那引導自己的民行走曠野的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him which led his people through the wilderness: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:17    稱謝那擊殺大君王的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
To him which smote great kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:18    他殺戮有名的君王，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And slew famous kings: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:19    就是殺戮亞摩利王西巨集，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
Sihon king of the Amorites: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:20    又殺巴珊王噩，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And Og the king of Bashan: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:21    他將他們的地賜他的百姓為業，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And gave their land for an heritage: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:22    就是賜他的僕人以色列為業，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
Even an heritage unto Israel his servant: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:23    他顧念我們在卑微的地步，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
Who remembered us in our low estate: for his mercy endureth for ever:

136:24    他救拔我們脫離敵人，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
And hath redeemed us from our enemies: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:25    他賜糧食給凡有血氣的，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
Who giveth food to all flesh: for his mercy endureth for ever.

136:26    你們要稱謝天上的神，因他的慈愛永遠長存。
O give thanks unto the God of heaven: for his mercy endureth for ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 137 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


137:1    他們曾在巴比倫的河邊坐下，一追想錫安就哭了。
By the rivers of Babylon, there we sat down, yea, we wept, when we remembered Zion.

137:2    我們把琴掛在那裡的柳樹上。
We hanged our harps upon the willows in the midst thereof.

137:3    因為在那裡，擄掠我們的要我們唱歌，搶奪我們的，要我們作樂，說，給我們唱一首錫安歌吧。
For there they that carried us away captive required of us a song; and they that wasted us required of us mirth, saying, Sing us one of the songs of Zion.

137:4    我們怎能在外邦唱耶和華的歌呢。
How shall we sing the LORD's song in a strange land?

137:5    耶路撒冷阿，我若忘記你，情願我的右手忘記技巧。
If I forget thee, O Jerusalem, let my right hand forget her cunning.

137:6    我若不記念你，若不看耶路撒冷過於我所最喜樂的，情願我的舌頭貼於上膛。
If I do not remember thee, let my tongue cleave to the roof of my mouth; if I prefer not Jerusalem above my chief joy.

137:7    耶路撒冷遭難的日子，以東人說，拆毀，拆毀，直拆到根基。耶和華阿求你記念這仇。
Remember, O LORD, the children of Edom in the day of Jerusalem; who said, Rase it, rase it, even to the foundation thereof.

137:8    將要被滅的巴比倫城阿（城原文是女子），報復你像你待我們的，那人便為有福。
O daughter of Babylon, who art to be destroyed; happy shall he be, that rewardeth thee as thou hast served us.

137:9    拿你的嬰孩摔在磐石上的，那人便為有福。
Happy shall he be, that taketh and dasheth thy little ones against the stones.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 138 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


138:1    （大衛的詩）我要一心稱謝你，在諸神面前歌頌你。
I will praise thee with my whole heart: before the gods will I sing praise unto thee.

138:2    我要向你的聖殿下拜，為你的慈愛和誠實稱讚你的名。因你使你的話顯為大，過於你所應許的（或作超乎你的名聲）。
I will worship toward thy holy temple, and praise thy name for thy lovingkindness and for thy truth: for thou hast magnified thy word above all thy name.

138:3    我呼求的日子，你就應允我，鼓勵我，使我心裡有能力。
In the day when I cried thou answeredst me, and strengthenedst me with strength in my soul.

138:4    耶和華阿，地上的君王，都要稱謝你，因他們聽見了你口中的言語。
All the kings of the earth shall praise thee, O LORD, when they hear the words of thy mouth.

138:5    他們要歌頌耶和華的作為，因耶和華大有榮耀。
Yea, they shall sing in the ways of the LORD: for great is the glory of the LORD.

138:6    耶和華雖高，仍看顧低微的人。他卻從遠處看出驕傲的人。
Though the LORD be high, yet hath he respect unto the lowly: but the proud he knoweth afar off.

138:7    我雖行在患難中，你必將我救活。我的仇敵發怒，你必伸手抵擋他們。你的右手也必救我。
Though I walk in the midst of trouble, thou wilt revive me: thou shalt stretch forth thine hand against the wrath of mine enemies, and thy right hand shall save me.

138:8    耶和華必成全關乎我的事。耶和華阿，你的慈愛永遠長存。求你不要離棄你手所造的。
The LORD will perfect that which concerneth me: thy mercy, O LORD, endureth for ever: forsake not the works of thine own hands.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 139 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


139:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長）耶和華阿，你已經鑑察我，認識我。
O LORD, thou hast searched me, and known me.

139:2    我坐下，我起來，你都曉得。你從遠處知道我的意念。
Thou knowest my downsitting and mine uprising, thou understandest my thought afar off.

139:3    我行路，我躺臥，你都細察，你也深知我一切所行的。
Thou compassest my path and my lying down, and art acquainted with all my ways.

139:4    耶和華阿，我舌頭上的話，你腔有一句不知道的。
For there is not a word in my tongue, but, lo, O LORD, thou knowest it altogether.

139:5    你在我前後環繞我，按手在我身上。
Thou hast beset me behind and before, and laid thine hand upon me.

139:6    這樣的知識奇妙，是我不能測的。至高，是我不能及的。
Such knowledge is too wonderful for me; it is high, I cannot attain unto it.

139:7    我往那裡去躲避你的靈。我往那裡逃躲避你的面。
Whither shall I go from thy spirit? or whither shall I flee from thy presence?

139:8    我若升到天上，你在那裡。我若在陰間下榻，你也在那裡。
If I ascend up into heaven, thou art there: if I make my bed in hell, behold, thou art there.

139:9    我若展開清晨的翅膀，飛到海極居住。
If I take the wings of the morning, and dwell in the uttermost parts of the sea;

139:10    就是在那裡，你的手必引導我，你的右手，也必扶持我。
Even there shall thy hand lead me, and thy right hand shall hold me.

139:11    我若說，黑夜必定遮蔽我，我周圍的亮光必成為黑夜。
If I say, Surely the darkness shall cover me; even the night shall be light about me.

139:12    黑暗也不能遮蔽我使你不見，黑夜卻如白晝發亮。黑暗和光明，在你看都是一樣。
Yea, the darkness hideth not from thee; but the night shineth as the day: the darkness and the light are both alike to thee.

139:13    我的肺腑是你所造的。我在母腹中，你已覆庇我。
For thou hast possessed my reins: thou hast covered me in my mother's womb.

139:14    我要稱謝你，因我受造，奇妙可畏。你的作為奇妙，這是我心深知道的。
I will praise thee; for I am fearfully and wonderfully made: marvellous are thy works; and that my soul knoweth right well.

139:15    我在暗中受造，在地的深處被聯絡。那時，我的形體並不向你隱藏。
My substance was not hid from thee, when I was made in secret, and curiously wrought in the lowest parts of the earth.

139:16    我未成形的體質，你的眼早已看見了。你所定的日子，我尚未度一日（或作我被造的肢體尚未有其一），你都寫在你的冊上了。
Thine eyes did see my substance, yet being unperfect; and in thy book all my members were written, which in continuance were fashioned, when as yet there was none of them.

139:17    神阿，你的意念向我何等寶貴。其數何等眾多。
How precious also are thy thoughts unto me, O God! how great is the sum of them!

139:18    我若數點，比海沙更多。我睡醒的時候，仍和你同在。
If I should count them, they are more in number than the sand: when I awake, I am still with thee.

139:19    神阿，你必要殺戮惡人。所以，你們好流人血的，離開我去吧。
Surely thou wilt slay the wicked, O God: depart from me therefore, ye bloody men.

139:20    因為他們說惡言頂撞你。你的仇敵也妄稱你的名。
For they speak against thee wickedly, and thine enemies take thy name in vain.

139:21    耶和華阿，恨惡你的，我豈不恨惡他們嗎。攻擊你的，我豈不憎嫌他們嗎。
Do not I hate them, O LORD, that hate thee? and am not I grieved with those that rise up against thee?

139:22    我切切地恨惡他們，以他們為仇敵。
I hate them with perfect hatred: I count them mine enemies.

139:23    神阿，求你鑑察我，知道我的心思，試煉我，知道我的意念。
Search me, O God, and know my heart: try me, and know my thoughts:

139:24    看在我裡面有什麼惡行沒有，引導我走永生的道路。
And see if there be any wicked way in me, and lead me in the way everlasting.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 140 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


140:1    （大衛的詩，交與伶長）耶和華阿，求你拯救我脫離凶惡的人，保護我脫離強暴的人。
Deliver me, O LORD, from the evil man: preserve me from the violent man;

140:2    他們心中圖謀奸惡，常常聚集要爭戰。
Which imagine mischiefs in their heart; continually are they gathered together for war.

140:3    他們使舌頭尖利如蛇，嘴裡有虺蛇的毒氣。（細拉）
They have sharpened their tongues like a serpent; adders' poison is under their lips. Selah.

140:4    耶和華阿，求你拯救我脫離惡人的手，保護我脫離強暴的人。他們圖謀推我跌倒。
Keep me, O LORD, from the hands of the wicked; preserve me from the violent man; who have purposed to overthrow my goings.

140:5    驕傲人為我暗設網羅和繩索。他們在路旁鋪下網，設下圈套。（細拉）
The proud have hid a snare for me, and cords; they have spread a net by the wayside; they have set gins for me. Selah.

140:6    我曾對耶和華說，你是我的神。耶和華阿，求你留心聽我懇求的聲音。
I said unto the LORD, Thou art my God: hear the voice of my supplications, O LORD.

140:7    主耶和華，我救恩的力量阿，在爭戰的日子，你遮蔽了我的頭。
O GOD the Lord, the strength of my salvation, thou hast covered my head in the day of battle.

140:8    耶和華阿，求你不要遂惡人的心願。不要成就他們的計謀，恐怕他們自高。（細拉）
Grant not, O LORD, the desires of the wicked: further not his wicked device; lest they exalt themselves. Selah.

140:9    至於那些昂首圍困我的人，願他們嘴脣的奸惡陷害（原文是遮蔽）自己。
As for the head of those that compass me about, let the mischief of their own lips cover them.

140:10    願火炭落在他們身上。願他們被丟在火中，拋在深坑裡，不能再起來。
Let burning coals fall upon them: let them be cast into the fire; into deep pits, that they rise not up again.

140:11    說惡言的人，在地上必堅立不住。禍患必獵取強暴的人，將他打倒。
Let not an evil speaker be established in the earth: evil shall hunt the violent man to overthrow him.

140:12    我知道耶和華必為困苦人伸冤，必為窮乏人辨屈。
I know that the LORD will maintain the cause of the afflicted, and the right of the poor.

140:13    義人必要稱讚你的名。正直人必住在你面前。
Surely the righteous shall give thanks unto thy name: the upright shall dwell in thy presence.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 141 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


141:1    （大衛的詩）耶和華阿，我曾求告你，求你快快臨到我這裡。我求告你的時候，願你留心聽我的聲音。
Lord, I cry unto thee: make haste unto me; give ear unto my voice, when I cry unto thee.

141:2    願我的禱告，如香陳列在你面前。願我舉手祈求，如獻晚祭。
Let my prayer be set forth before thee as incense; and the lifting up of my hands as the evening sacrifice.

141:3    耶和華阿，求你禁止我的口，把守我的嘴。
Set a watch, O LORD, before my mouth; keep the door of my lips.

141:4    求你不叫我的心，偏向邪惡，以致我和作孽的人同行惡事。也不叫我吃他們的美食。
Incline not my heart to any evil thing, to practise wicked works with men that work iniquity: and let me not eat of their dainties.

141:5    任憑義人擊打我，這算為仁慈。任憑他責備我，這算為頭上的膏油。我的頭不要躲閃。正在他們行惡的時候，我仍要祈禱。
Let the righteous smite me; it shall be a kindness: and let him reprove me; it shall be an excellent oil, which shall not break my head: for yet my prayer also shall be in their calamities.

141:6    他們的審判官，被扔在巖下。眾人要聽我的話，因為這話甘甜。
When their judges are overthrown in stony places, they shall hear my words; for they are sweet.

141:7    我們的骨頭散在墓旁，好像人耕田，刨地的土塊。
Our bones are scattered at the grave's mouth, as when one cutteth and cleaveth wood upon the earth.

141:8    主耶和華阿，我的眼目仰望你。我投靠你，求你不要將我撇得孤苦。
But mine eyes are unto thee, O GOD the Lord: in thee is my trust; leave not my soul destitute.

141:9    求你保護我脫離惡人為我設的網羅，和作孽之人的圈套。
Keep me from the snares which they have laid for me, and the gins of the workers of iniquity.

141:10    願惡人落在自己的網裡，我卻得以逃脫。
Let the wicked fall into their own nets, whilst that I withal escape.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 142 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


142:1    （大衛在洞裡作的訓誨詩，乃是祈禱）我發聲哀告耶和華，發聲懇求耶和華。
I cried unto the LORD with my voice; with my voice unto the LORD did I make my supplication.

142:2    我在他面前吐露我的苦情，陳說我的患難。
I poured out my complaint before him; I shewed before him my trouble.

142:3    我的靈在我裡面發昏的時候，你知道我的道路。在我行的路上，敵人為我暗設網羅。
When my spirit was overwhelmed within me, then thou knewest my path. In the way wherein I walked have they privily laid a snare for me.

142:4    求你向我右邊觀看，因為沒有人認識我。我無處避難，也沒有人眷顧我。
I looked on my right hand, and beheld, but there was no man that would know me: refuge failed me; no man cared for my soul.

142:5    耶和華阿，我曾向你哀求。我說，你是我的避難所。在活人之地，你是我的福分。
I cried unto thee, O LORD: I said, Thou art my refuge and my portion in the land of the living.

142:6    求你側耳聽我的呼求，因我落到極卑之地。求你救我脫離逼迫我的人，因為他們比我強盛。
Attend unto my cry; for I am brought very low: deliver me from my persecutors; for they are stronger than I.

142:7    求你領我出離被囚之地，我好稱讚你的名。義人必環繞我，因為你是用厚恩待我。
Bring my soul out of prison, that I may praise thy name: the righteous shall compass me about; for thou shalt deal bountifully with me.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 143 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


143:1    （大衛的詩）耶和華阿，求你聽我的禱告，留心聽我的懇求，憑你的信實和公義應允我。
Hear my prayer, O LORD, give ear to my supplications: in thy faithfulness answer me, and in thy righteousness.

143:2    求你不要審問僕人。因為在你面前，凡活著的人，沒有一個是義的。
And enter not into judgment with thy servant: for in thy sight shall no man living be justified.

143:3    原來仇敵逼迫我，將我打倒在地，使我住在幽暗之處，像死了許久的人一樣。
For the enemy hath persecuted my soul; he hath smitten my life down to the ground; he hath made me to dwell in darkness, as those that have been long dead.

143:4    所以，我的靈在我裡面發昏。我的心在我裡面悽慘。
Therefore is my spirit overwhelmed within me; my heart within me is desolate.

143:5    我追想古時之日，思想你的一切作為，默唸你手的工作。
I remember the days of old; I meditate on all thy works; I muse on the work of thy hands.

143:6    我向你舉手。我的心渴想你，如乾旱之地盼雨一樣。（細拉）
I stretch forth my hands unto thee: my soul thirsteth after thee, as a thirsty land. Selah.

143:7    耶和華阿，求你速速應允我。我心神耗盡。不要向我掩面，免得我像那些下坑的人一樣。
Hear me speedily, O LORD: my spirit faileth: hide not thy face from me, lest I be like unto them that go down into the pit.

143:8    求你使我清晨得聽你慈愛之言，因我倚靠你。求你使我知道當行的路，因我的心仰望你。
Cause me to hear thy lovingkindness in the morning; for in thee do I trust: cause me to know the way wherein I should walk; for I lift up my soul unto thee.

143:9    耶和華阿，求你救我脫離我的仇敵。我往你那裡藏身。
Deliver me, O LORD, from mine enemies: I flee unto thee to hide me.

143:10    求你指教我遵行你的旨意，因你是我的神。你的靈本為善。求你引我到平坦之地。
Teach me to do thy will; for thou art my God: thy spirit is good; lead me into the land of uprightness.

143:11    耶和華阿，求你為你的名將我救活。憑你的公義，將我從患難中領出來。
Quicken me, O LORD, for thy name's sake: for thy righteousness' sake bring my soul out of trouble.

143:12    憑你的慈愛剪除我的仇敵，滅絕一切苦待我的人，因我是你的僕人。
And of thy mercy cut off mine enemies, and destroy all them that afflict my soul: for I am thy servant.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 144 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


144:1    （大衛的詩）耶和華我的磐石，是應當稱頌的。他教導我的手爭戰，教導我的指頭打仗。
Blessed be the LORD my strength, which teacheth my hands to war, and my fingers to fight:

144:2    他是我慈愛的主，我的山寨，我的高臺，我的救主，我的盾牌，是我所投靠的。他使我的百姓服在我以下。
My goodness, and my fortress; my high tower, and my deliverer; my shield, and he in whom I trust; who subdueth my people under me.

144:3    耶和華阿，人算什麼，你竟認識他。世人算什麼，你竟顧念他。
LORD, what is man, that thou takest knowledge of him! or the son of man, that thou makest account of him!

144:4    人好像一口氣。他的年日，如同影兒快快過去。
Man is like to vanity: his days are as a shadow that passeth away.

144:5    耶和華阿，求你使天下垂，親自降臨，摸山，山就冒煙。
Bow thy heavens, O LORD, and come down: touch the mountains, and they shall smoke.

144:6    求你發出閃電，使他們四散，射出你的箭，使他們擾亂。
Cast forth lightning, and scatter them: shoot out thine arrows, and destroy them.

144:7    求你從上伸手救拔我，救我出離大水，救我脫離外邦人的手。
Send thine hand from above; rid me, and deliver me out of great waters, from the hand of strange children;

144:8    他們的口說謊話。他們的右手起假誓。
Whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood.

144:9    神阿，我要向你唱新歌，用十弦瑟向你歌頌。
I will sing a new song unto thee, O God: upon a psaltery and an instrument of ten strings will I sing praises unto thee.

144:10    你是那拯救君王的。你是那救僕人大衛脫離害命之刀的。
It is he that giveth salvation unto kings: who delivereth David his servant from the hurtful sword.

144:11    求你救拔我，救我脫離外邦人的手。他們的口說謊話。他們的右手起假誓。
Rid me, and deliver me from the hand of strange children, whose mouth speaketh vanity, and their right hand is a right hand of falsehood:

144:12    我們的兒子，從幼年好像樹栽子長大。我們的女兒如同殿角石，是按建宮的樣式鑿成的。
That our sons may be as plants grown up in their youth; that our daughters may be as corner stones, polished after the similitude of a palace:

144:13    我們的倉盈滿，能出各樣的糧食。我們的羊，在田間孳生千萬。
That our garners may be full, affording all manner of store: that our sheep may bring forth thousands and ten thousands in our streets:

144:14    我們的牛馱著滿馱，沒有人闖進來搶奪，也沒有人出去爭戰。我們的街市上，也沒有哭號的聲音。
That our oxen may be strong to labour; that there be no breaking in, nor going out; that there be no complaining in our streets.

144:15    遇見這光景的百姓，便為有福。有耶和華為他們的神，這百姓便為有福。
Happy is that people, that is in such a case: yea, happy is that people, whose God is the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 145 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


145:1    （大衛的讚美詩）我的神我的王阿，我要尊崇你。我要永永遠遠稱頌你的名。
I will extol thee, my God, O king; and I will bless thy name for ever and ever.

145:2    我要天天稱頌你，也要永永遠遠讚美你的名。
Every day will I bless thee; and I will praise thy name for ever and ever.

145:3    耶和華本為大，該受大讚美。其大無法測度。
Great is the LORD, and greatly to be praised; and his greatness is unsearchable.

145:4    這代要對那代頌讚你的作為，也要傳揚你的大能。
One generation shall praise thy works to another, and shall declare thy mighty acts.

145:5    我要默唸你威嚴的尊榮，和你奇妙的作為。
I will speak of the glorious honour of thy majesty, and of thy wondrous works.

145:6    人要傳說你可畏之事的能力。我也要傳揚你的大德。
And men shall speak of the might of thy terrible acts: and I will declare thy greatness.

145:7    他們記念你的大恩，就要傳出來，並要歌唱你的公義。
They shall abundantly utter the memory of thy great goodness, and shall sing of thy righteousness.

145:8    耶和華有恩惠，有憐憫，不輕易發怒，大有慈愛。
The LORD is gracious, and full of compassion; slow to anger, and of great mercy.

145:9    耶和華善待萬民，他的慈悲，覆庇他一切所造的。
The LORD is good to all: and his tender mercies are over all his works.

145:10    耶和華阿，你一切所造，的都要稱謝你。你的聖民也要稱頌你，
All thy works shall praise thee, O LORD; and thy saints shall bless thee.

145:11    傳說你國的榮耀，談論你的大能，
They shall speak of the glory of thy kingdom, and talk of thy power;

145:12    好叫世人知道你大能的作為，並你國度威嚴的榮耀。
To make known to the sons of men his mighty acts, and the glorious majesty of his kingdom.

145:13    你的國是永遠的國，你執掌的權柄，存到萬代。
Thy kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and thy dominion endureth throughout all generations.

145:14    凡跌倒的，耶和華將他們扶持。凡被壓下的，將他們扶起。
The LORD upholdeth all that fall, and raiseth up all those that be bowed down.

145:15    萬民都舉目仰望你。你隨時給他們食物。
The eyes of all wait upon thee; and thou givest them their meat in due season.

145:16    你張手，使有生氣的都隨願飽足。
Thou openest thine hand, and satisfiest the desire of every living thing.

145:17    耶和華在他一切所行的，無不公義。在他一切所做的，都有慈愛。
The LORD is righteous in all his ways, and holy in all his works.

145:18    凡求告耶和華的，就是誠心求告他的，耶和華便與他們相近。
The LORD is nigh unto all them that call upon him, to all that call upon him in truth.

145:19    敬畏他的，他必成就他們的心願。也必聽他們的呼求，拯救他們。
He will fulfil the desire of them that fear him: he also will hear their cry, and will save them.

145:20    耶和華保護一切愛他的人，卻要滅絕一切的惡人。
The LORD preserveth all them that love him: but all the wicked will he destroy.

145:21    我的口要說出讚美耶和華的話。惟願凡有血氣的，都永永遠遠稱頌他的聖名。
My mouth shall speak the praise of the LORD: and let all flesh bless his holy name for ever and ever.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 146 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


146:1    你們要讚美耶和華。我的心哪，你要讚美耶和華。
Praise ye the LORD. Praise the LORD, O my soul.

146:2    我一生要讚美耶和華。我還活的時候要歌頌我的神。
While I live will I praise the LORD: I will sing praises unto my God while I have any being.

146:3    你們不要倚靠君王，不要倚靠世人。他一點不能幫助。
Put not your trust in princes, nor in the son of man, in whom there is no help.

146:4    他的氣一斷，就歸回塵土。他所打算的，當日就消滅了。
His breath goeth forth, he returneth to his earth; in that very day his thoughts perish.

146:5    以雅各的神為幫助，仰望耶和華他神的，這人便為有福。
Happy is he that hath the God of Jacob for his help, whose hope is in the LORD his God:

146:6    耶和華造天，地，海，和其中的萬物。他守誠實，直到永遠。
Which made heaven, and earth, the sea, and all that therein is: which keepeth truth for ever:

146:7    他為受屈的伸冤，賜食物與飢餓的。耶和華釋放被囚的。
Which executeth judgment for the oppressed: which giveth food to the hungry. The LORD looseth the prisoners:

146:8    耶和華開了瞎子的眼睛。耶和華扶起被壓下的人。耶和華喜愛義人。
The LORD openeth the eyes of the blind: the LORD raiseth them that are bowed down: the LORD loveth the righteous:

146:9    耶和華保護寄居的，扶持孤兒和寡婦，卻使惡人的道路彎曲。
The LORD preserveth the strangers; he relieveth the fatherless and widow: but the way of the wicked he turneth upside down.



146:10    耶和華要作王，直到永遠。錫安哪，你的神要作王，直到萬代。你們要讚美耶和華。
The LORD shall reign for ever, even thy God, O Zion, unto all generations. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 147 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


147:1    你們要讚美耶和華，因歌頌我們的神為善為美。讚美的話是合宜的。
Praise ye the LORD: for it is good to sing praises unto our God; for it is pleasant; and praise is comely.

147:2    耶和華建造耶路撒冷，聚集以色列中被趕散的人。
The LORD doth build up Jerusalem: he gathereth together the outcasts of Israel.

147:3    他醫好傷心的人，裹好他們的傷處。
He healeth the broken in heart, and bindeth up their wounds.

147:4    他數點星宿的數目，一一稱它的名。
He telleth the number of the stars; he calleth them all by their names.

147:5    我們的主為大，最有能力。他的智慧無法測度。
Great is our Lord, and of great power: his understanding is infinite.

147:6    耶和華扶持謙卑人，將惡人傾覆於地。
The LORD lifteth up the meek: he casteth the wicked down to the ground.

147:7    你們要以感謝向耶和華歌唱，用琴向我們的神歌頌。
Sing unto the LORD with thanksgiving; sing praise upon the harp unto our God:

147:8    他用雲遮天，為地降雨，使草生長在山上。
Who covereth the heaven with clouds, who prepareth rain for the earth, who maketh grass to grow upon the mountains.

147:9    他賜食給走獸，和啼叫的小烏鴉。
He giveth to the beast his food, and to the young ravens which cry.

147:10    他不喜悅馬的力大，不喜愛人的腿快。
He delighteth not in the strength of the horse: he taketh not pleasure in the legs of a man.

147:11    耶和華喜愛敬畏他和盼望他慈愛的人。
The LORD taketh pleasure in them that fear him, in those that hope in his mercy.

147:12    耶路撒冷阿，你要頌讚耶和華。錫安哪，你要讚美你的神。
Praise the LORD, O Jerusalem; praise thy God, O Zion.

147:13    因為他堅固了你的門閂，賜福給你中間的兒女。
For he hath strengthened the bars of thy gates; he hath blessed thy children within thee.

147:14    他使你境內平安。用上好的麥子使你滿足。
He maketh peace in thy borders, and filleth thee with the finest of the wheat.

147:15    他發命在地。他的話頒行最快。
He sendeth forth his commandment upon earth: his word runneth very swiftly.

147:16    他降雪如羊毛，撒霜如爐灰。
He giveth snow like wool: he scattereth the hoarfrost like ashes.

147:17    他擲下冰雹如碎渣。他發出寒冷，誰能當得起呢。
He casteth forth his ice like morsels: who can stand before his cold?

147:18    他一出令，這些就都消化。他使風颳起，水便流動。
He sendeth out his word, and melteth them: he causeth his wind to blow, and the waters flow.

147:19    他將他的道指示雅各，將他的律例典章指示以色列。
He sheweth his word unto Jacob, his statutes and his judgments unto Israel.

147:20    別國他都沒有這樣待過。至於他的典章，他們向來沒有知道。你們要讚美耶和華。
He hath not dealt so with any nation: and as for his judgments, they have not known them. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 148 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


148:1    你們要讚美耶和華，從天上讚美耶和華，在高處讚美他。
Praise ye the LORD. Praise ye the LORD from the heavens: praise him in the heights.

148:2    他的眾使者都要讚美他。他的諸軍都要讚美他。
Praise ye him, all his angels: praise ye him, all his hosts.

148:3    日頭月亮，你們要讚美他。放光的星宿，你們都要讚美他。
Praise ye him, sun and moon: praise him, all ye stars of light.

148:4    天上的天，和天上的水，你們都要讚美他。
Praise him, ye heavens of heavens, and ye waters that be above the heavens.

148:5    願這些都讚美耶和華的名。因他一吩咐便都造成。
Let them praise the name of the LORD: for he commanded, and they were created.

148:6    他將這些立定，直到永永遠遠。他定了命，不能廢去（或作越過）。
He hath also stablished them for ever and ever: he hath made a decree which shall not pass.

148:7    所有在地上的，大魚和一切深洋，
Praise the LORD from the earth, ye dragons, and all deeps:

148:8    火與冰雹，雪和霧氣，成就他命的狂風，
Fire, and hail; snow, and vapours; stormy wind fulfilling his word:

148:9    大山和小山，結果的樹木，和一切香柏樹，
Mountains, and all hills; fruitful trees, and all cedars:

148:10    野獸和一切牲畜，昆蟲和飛鳥，
Beasts, and all cattle; creeping things, and flying fowl:

148:11    世上的君王和萬民，首領和世上一切審判官，
Kings of the earth, and all people; princes, and all judges of the earth:

148:12    少年人和處女，老年人和孩童，都當讚美耶和華。
Both young men, and maidens; old men, and children:

148:13    願這些都讚美耶和華的名。因為獨有他的名被尊崇。他的榮耀在天地之上。
Let them praise the name of the LORD: for his name alone is excellent; his glory is above the earth and heaven.

148:14    他將他百姓的角高舉，因此他（因此他或作他使）一切聖民以色列人，就是與他相近的百姓，都讚美他。你們要讚美耶和華。
He also exalteth the horn of his people, the praise of all his saints; even of the children of Israel, a people near unto him. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 149 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


149:1    你們要讚美耶和華，向耶和華唱新歌，在聖民的會中讚美他。
Praise ye the LORD. Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise in the congregation of saints.

149:2    願以色列因造他的主歡喜。願錫安的民，因他們的王快樂。
Let Israel rejoice in him that made him: let the children of Zion be joyful in their King.

149:3    願他們跳舞讚美他的名，擊鼓彈琴歌頌他。
Let them praise his name in the dance: let them sing praises unto him with the timbrel and harp.

149:4    因為耶和華喜愛他的百姓。他要用救恩當作謙卑人的妝飾。
For the LORD taketh pleasure in his people: he will beautify the meek with salvation.

149:5    願聖民因所得的榮耀高興。願他們在床上歡呼。
Let the saints be joyful in glory: let them sing aloud upon their beds.

149:6    願他們口中稱讚神為高，手裡有兩刃的刀。
Let the high praises of God be in their mouth, and a two-edged sword in their hand;

149:7    為要報復列邦，刑罰萬民。
To execute vengeance upon the heathen, and punishments upon the people;

149:8    要用鏈子捆他們的君王，用鐵鐐鎖他們的大臣。
To bind their kings with chains, and their nobles with fetters of iron;

149:9    要在他們身上施行所記錄的審判。他的聖民都有這榮耀。你們要讚美耶和華。
To execute upon them the judgment written: this honour have all his saints. Praise ye the LORD.




舊約 -- 詩篇(Psalms) -- 第 150 章 ( 本篇共有 150 章 )    　


150:1    你們要讚美耶和華，在神的聖所讚美他，在他顯能力的穹蒼讚美他。
Praise ye the LORD. Praise God in his sanctuary: praise him in the firmament of his power.

150:2    要因他大能的作為讚美他，按著他極美的大德讚美他。
Praise him for his mighty acts: praise him according to his excellent greatness.

150:3    要用角聲讚美他，鼓瑟彈琴讚美他。
Praise him with the sound of the trumpet: praise him with the psaltery and harp.

150:4    擊鼓跳舞讚美他，用絲絃的樂器，和簫的聲音讚美他。
Praise him with the timbrel and dance: praise him with stringed instruments and organs.

150:5    用大響的鈸讚美他，用高聲的鈸讚美他。
Praise him upon the loud cymbals: praise him upon the high sounding cymbals.

150:6    凡有氣息的，都要讚美耶和華。你們要讚美耶和華。
Let every thing that hath breath praise the LORD. Praise ye the LORD.






舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


1:1    以色列王大衛兒子所羅門的箴言。
The proverbs of Solomon the son of David, king of Israel;

1:2    要使人曉得智慧和訓誨。分辨通達的言語。
To know wisdom and instruction; to perceive the words of understanding;

1:3    使人處世，領受智慧，仁義，公平，正直的訓誨。
To receive the instruction of wisdom, justice, and judgment, and equity;

1:4    使愚人靈明，使少年人有知識和謀略。
To give subtilty to the simple, to the young man knowledge and discretion.

1:5    使智慧人聽見，增長學問。使聰明人得著智謀。
A wise man will hear, and will increase learning; and a man of understanding shall attain unto wise counsels:

1:6    使人明白箴言和譬喻，懂得智慧人的言詞和謎語。
To understand a proverb, and the interpretation; the words of the wise, and their dark sayings.

1:7    敬畏耶和華是知識的開端。愚妄人藐視智慧和訓誨。
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of knowledge: but fools despise wisdom and instruction.

1:8    我兒，要聽你父親的訓誨，不可離棄你母親的法則。（或作指教）
My son, hear the instruction of thy father, and forsake not the law of thy mother:

1:9    因為這要作為你頭上的華冠，項上的金鍊。
For they shall be an ornament of grace unto thy head, and chains about thy neck.

1:10    我兒，惡人若引誘你，你不可隨從。
My son, if sinners entice thee, consent thou not.

1:11    他們若說，你與我們同去，我們要埋伏流人之血，要蹲伏害無罪之人。
If they say, Come with us, let us lay wait for blood, let us lurk privily for the innocent without cause:

1:12    我們好像陰間，把他們活活吞下。他們如同下坑的人，被我們囫圇吞了。
Let us swallow them up alive as the grave; and whole, as those that go down into the pit:

1:13    我們必得各樣寶物，將所擄來的裝滿房屋。
We shall find all precious substance, we shall fill our houses with spoil:

1:14    你與我們大家同分。我們共用一各囊袋。
Cast in thy lot among us; let us all have one purse:

1:15    我兒，不要與他們同行一道。禁止你腳走他們的路。
My son, walk not thou in the way with them; refrain thy foot from their path:

1:16    因為他們的腳奔跑行惡，他們急速流人的血。
For their feet run to evil, and make haste to shed blood.

1:17    好像飛鳥，網羅設在眼前仍不躲避。
Surely in vain the net is spread in the sight of any bird.

1:18    這些人埋伏，是為自流己血。蹲伏是為自害己命。
And they lay wait for their own blood; they lurk privily for their own lives.

1:19    凡貪戀財利的，所行之路，都是如此。這貪戀之心，乃奪去得財者之命。
So are the ways of every one that is greedy of gain; which taketh away the life of the owners thereof.

1:20    智慧在街市上呼喊，在寬闊處發聲。
Wisdom crieth without; she uttereth her voice in the streets:

1:21    在熱鬧街頭喊叫，在城門口，在城中發出言語。
She crieth in the chief place of concourse, in the openings of the gates: in the city she uttereth her words, saying,

1:22    說你們愚昧人喜愛愚昧，褻慢人喜歡褻慢，愚頑人恨惡知識，要到幾時呢。
How long, ye simple ones, will ye love simplicity? and the scorners delight in their scorning, and fools hate knowledge?

1:23    你們當因我的責備迴轉。我要將我的靈澆灌你們，將我的話指示你們。
Turn you at my reproof: behold, I will pour out my spirit unto you, I will make known my words unto you.

1:24    我呼喚你們不肯聽從。我伸手，無人理會。
Because I have called, and ye refused; I have stretched out my hand, and no man regarded;

1:25    反輕棄我一切的勸戒，不肯受我的責備。
But ye have set at nought all my counsel, and would none of my reproof:

1:26    你們遭災難，我就發笑驚恐臨到你們，我必嗤笑。
I also will laugh at your calamity; I will mock when your fear cometh;

1:27    驚恐臨到你們，好像狂風，災難來到，如同暴風。急難痛苦臨到你們身上。
When your fear cometh as desolation, and your destruction cometh as a whirlwind; when distress and anguish cometh upon you.

1:28    那時，你們必呼求我，我卻不答應，懇切的尋梢我，卻尋不見。
Then shall they call upon me, but I will not answer; they shall seek me early, but they shall not find me:

1:29    因為你們恨惡知識，不喜愛敬畏耶和華，
For that they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the LORD:

1:30    不聽我的勸戒，藐視我一切的責備，
They would none of my counsel: they despised all my reproof.

1:31    所以必吃自結的果子，充滿自設的計謀。
Therefore shall they eat of the fruit of their own way, and be filled with their own devices.

1:32    愚昧人背道，必殺己身，愚頑人安逸，必害己命。
For the turning away of the simple shall slay them, and the prosperity of fools shall destroy them.

1:33    惟有聽從我的，必安然居住，得享安靜，不怕災禍。
But whoso hearkeneth unto me shall dwell safely, and shall be quiet from fear of evil.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


2:1    我兒，你若領受我的言語，存記我得命令，
My son, if thou wilt receive my words, and hide my commandments with thee;

2:2    側耳聽智慧，專心求聰明。
So that thou incline thine ear unto wisdom, and apply thine heart to understanding;

2:3    呼求明哲，揚聲求聰明，
Yea, if thou criest after knowledge, and liftest up thy voice for understanding;

2:4    尋梢他如尋梢銀子，搜求他如搜求隱藏的珍寶，
If thou seekest her as silver, and searchest for her as for hid treasures;

2:5    你就明白敬畏耶和華，得以認識神。
Then shalt thou understand the fear of the LORD, and find the knowledge of God.

2:6    因為耶和華賜人智慧。知識和聰明，都由他口而出。
For the LORD giveth wisdom: out of his mouth cometh knowledge and understanding.

2:7    他給正直人存留真智慧，給行為純正的人作盾牌。
He layeth up sound wisdom for the righteous: he is a buckler to them that walk uprightly.

2:8    為要保守公平人的路，護庇虔敬人的道。
He keepeth the paths of judgment, and preserveth the way of his saints.

2:9    你也必明白仁義，公平，正直，一切的善道。
Then shalt thou understand righteousness, and judgment, and equity; yea, every good path.

2:10    智慧必入你心。你的靈要以知識為美。
When wisdom entereth into thine heart, and knowledge is pleasant unto thy soul;

2:11    謀略必護衛你。聰明必保守你。
Discretion shall preserve thee, understanding shall keep thee:

2:12    要救你脫離惡道，（惡道或作惡人的道）脫離說乖謬話的人。
To deliver thee from the way of the evil man, from the man that speaketh froward things;

2:13    那等人捨棄正直的路，行走黑暗的道，
Who leave the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness;

2:14    喜歡作惡，喜愛惡人的乖僻。
Who rejoice to do evil, and delight in the frowardness of the wicked;

2:15    在他們的道中彎曲，在他們的路上偏僻。
Whose ways are crooked, and they froward in their paths:

2:16    智慧要救你拖離淫婦，就是那油嘴滑舌的外女。
To deliver thee from the strange woman, even from the stranger which flattereth with her words;

2:17    他離棄幼年的配偶，忘了神的盟約。
Which forsaketh the guide of her youth, and forgetteth the covenant of her God.

2:18    他的家陷入死地，他的路偏向陰間。
For her house inclineth unto death, and her paths unto the dead.

2:19    凡到他那裡去的不得轉回，也得不著生命的路。
None that go unto her return again, neither take they hold of the paths of life.

2:20    智慧必使你行善人的道，守義人的路。
That thou mayest walk in the way of good men, and keep the paths of the righteous.

2:21    正直人必在世上居住。完全人必在地上存留。
For the upright shall dwell in the land, and the perfect shall remain in it.

2:22    惟有惡人必然剪除。奸詐的必然拔出。
But the wicked shall be cut off from the earth, and the transgressors shall be rooted out of it.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


3:1    我兒，不要忘記我的法則。（或作指教）你心要謹守我的誡命。
My son, forget not my law; but let thine heart keep my commandments:

3:2    因為他必將長久的日子，生命的年數，與平安，加給你。
For length of days, and long life, and peace, shall they add to thee.

3:3    不可使慈愛誠實離開你。要系在你頸項上，刻在你心版上。
Let not mercy and truth forsake thee: bind them about thy neck; write them upon the table of thine heart:

3:4    這樣，你必在神和世人眼前蒙恩寵，有聰明。
So shalt thou find favour and good understanding in the sight of God and man.

3:5    你要專心仰賴耶和華，不可倚靠自己的聰明。
Trust in the LORD with all thine heart; and lean not unto thine own understanding.

3:6    在你一切所行的事上，都要認定他，他必指引你的路。
In all thy ways acknowledge him, and he shall direct thy paths.

3:7    不要自以為有智慧。要敬畏耶和華，遠離惡事。
Be not wise in thine own eyes: fear the LORD, and depart from evil.

3:8    這便醫治你的肚臍，滋潤你的百骨。
It shall be health to thy navel, and marrow to thy bones.

3:9    你要以財物，和一切初熟的土產，尊榮耶和華。
Honour the LORD with thy substance, and with the firstfruits of all thine increase:

3:10    這樣，你的倉房，必充滿有餘，你的酒榨，有新酒盈溢。
So shall thy barns be filled with plenty, and thy presses shall burst out with new wine.

3:11    我兒，你不可輕看耶和華的管教，（或作懲治）也不可厭煩他的責備。
My son, despise not the chastening of the LORD; neither be weary of his correction:

3:12    因為耶和華所愛的，他必責備。正如父親責備所喜愛的兒子。
For whom the LORD loveth he correcteth; even as a father the son in whom he delighteth.

3:13    得智慧，得聰明的，這人便為有福。
Happy is the man that findeth wisdom, and the man that getteth understanding.

3:14    因為得智慧勝過得銀子，其利益強如精金。
For the merchandise of it is better than the merchandise of silver, and the gain thereof than fine gold.

3:15    比珍珠（或作紅寶石）寶貴。你一切所喜愛的，都不足比較。
She is more precious than rubies: and all the things thou canst desire are not to be compared unto her.

3:16    他右手有長壽。左手有富貴。
Length of days is in her right hand; and in her left hand riches and honour.

3:17    他的道是安樂，他的路全是平安。
Her ways are ways of pleasantness, and all her paths are peace.

3:18    他與持守他的作生命樹。持定他的俱各有福。
She is a tree of life to them that lay hold upon her: and happy is every one that retaineth her.

3:19    耶和華以智慧立地。以聰明定天。
The LORD by wisdom hath founded the earth; by understanding hath he established the heavens.

3:20    以知識使深淵裂開，使天空滴下甘露。
By his knowledge the depths are broken up, and the clouds drop down the dew.

3:21    我兒，要謹守真智慧和謀略。不可使他離開你的眼目。
My son, let not them depart from thine eyes: keep sound wisdom and discretion:

3:22    這樣，他必作你的生命，頸項的美飾。
So shall they be life unto thy soul, and grace to thy neck.

3:23    你就坦然行路，不至碰腳。
Then shalt thou walk in thy way safely, and thy foot shall not stumble.

3:24    你躺下，必不懼怕。你躺臥，睡得香甜。
When thou liest down, thou shalt not be afraid: yea, thou shalt lie down, and thy sleep shall be sweet.

3:25    忽然來的驚恐，不要害怕。惡人遭毀滅，也不要恐懼。
Be not afraid of sudden fear, neither of the desolation of the wicked, when it cometh.

3:26    因為耶和華是你所倚靠的。他必保守你的腳不陷入網羅。
For the LORD shall be thy confidence, and shall keep thy foot from being taken.

3:27    你手若有行善的力量，不可推辭，就當向那應得的人施行。
Withhold not good from them to whom it is due, when it is in the power of thine hand to do it.

3:28    你那裡若有現成的，不可對鄰舍說，去吧，明天再來，我必給你。
Say not unto thy neighbour, Go, and come again, and to morrow I will give; when thou hast it by thee.

3:29    你的鄰舍，既在你附近安居，你不可設計害他。
Devise not evil against thy neighbour, seeing he dwelleth securely by thee.

3:30    人未曾加害與你，不可無故與他相爭。
Strive not with a man without cause, if he have done thee no harm.

3:31    不可嫉妒強暴的人，也不可選擇他所行的路。
Envy thou not the oppressor, and choose none of his ways.

3:32    因為乖僻人為耶和華所憎惡。正直人為他所親密。
For the froward is abomination to the LORD: but his secret is with the righteous.

3:33    耶和華咒詛惡人的家庭，賜福與義人的居所。
The curse of the LORD is in the house of the wicked: but he blesseth the habitation of the just.

3:34    他譏誚那好譏誚的人，賜恩給謙卑的人。
Surely he scorneth the scorners: but he giveth grace unto the lowly.

3:35    智慧人必承受尊榮。愚昧人高升也成為羞辱。
The wise shall inherit glory: but shame shall be the promotion of fools.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


4:1    眾子阿，要聽父親的教訓，留心得知聰明。
Hear, ye children, the instruction of a father, and attend to know understanding.

4:2    因我所給你們的，是好教訓。不可離棄我的法則。（或作指教）
For I give you good doctrine, forsake ye not my law.

4:3    我在父親面前為孝子，在母親眼中為獨一的嬌兒。
For I was my father's son, tender and only beloved in the sight of my mother.

4:4    父親教訓我說，你心要存記我的言語，遵守我的命令，便得存活。
He taught me also, and said unto me, Let thine heart retain my words: keep my commandments, and live.

4:5    要得智慧，要得聰明。不可忘記，也不可偏離我口中的言語。
Get wisdom, get understanding: forget it not; neither decline from the words of my mouth.

4:6    不可離棄智慧，智慧就護衛你。要愛他，他就保守你。
Forsake her not, and she shall preserve thee: love her, and she shall keep thee.

4:7    智慧為首。所以要得智慧。在你一切所得之內，必得聰明。（或作用你一切所得的去換聰明）
Wisdom is the principal thing; therefore get wisdom: and with all thy getting get understanding.

4:8    高舉智慧，他就使你高升。懷抱智慧，他就使你尊榮。
Exalt her, and she shall promote thee: she shall bring thee to honour, when thou dost embrace her.

4:9    他必將華冠加在你頭上，把榮冕交給你。
She shall give to thine head an ornament of grace: a crown of glory shall she deliver to thee.

4:10    我兒，你要聽受我的言語，就必延年益壽。
Hear, O my son, and receive my sayings; and the years of thy life shall be many.

4:11    我已指教你走智慧的道，引導你行正直的路。
I have taught thee in the way of wisdom; I have led thee in right paths.

4:12    你行走，腳步必不致狹窄。你奔跑，也不致跌倒。
When thou goest, thy steps shall not be straitened; and when thou runnest, thou shalt not stumble.

4:13    要持定訓誨，不可放鬆。必當謹守，因為他是你的生命。
Take fast hold of instruction; let her not go: keep her; for she is thy life.

4:14    不可行惡人的路。不可走壞人的道。
Enter not into the path of the wicked, and go not in the way of evil men.

4:15    要躲避，不可輕過。要轉身而去。
Avoid it, pass not by it, turn from it, and pass away.

4:16    這等人若不行惡，不得睡覺。不使人跌倒，睡臥不安。
For they sleep not, except they have done mischief; and their sleep is taken away, unless they cause some to fall.

4:17    因為他們以奸惡吃餅，以強暴喝酒。
For they eat the bread of wickedness, and drink the wine of violence.

4:18    但義人的路，好像黎明的光，越照越明，直到日午。
But the path of the just is as the shining light, that shineth more and more unto the perfect day.

4:19    惡人的道好像幽暗。自己不知因什嗎跌倒。
The way of the wicked is as darkness: they know not at what they stumble.

4:20    我兒，要留心聽我的言詞，側耳聽我的話語。
My son, attend to my words; incline thine ear unto my sayings.

4:21    都不可離你的眼目。要存記在你心中。
Let them not depart from thine eyes; keep them in the midst of thine heart.

4:22    因為得著他的，就得了生命，又得了醫全體的良藥。
For they are life unto those that find them, and health to all their flesh.

4:23    你要保守你心，勝過保守一切。（或作你要切切保守你心）因為一生的果效，是由心發出。
Keep thy heart with all diligence; for out of it are the issues of life.

4:24    你要除掉邪僻的口，棄絕乖謬的嘴。
Put away from thee a froward mouth, and perverse lips put far from thee.

4:25    你的眼目，要向前升看，你的眼睛，（原文作皮）當向前直觀。
Let thine eyes look right on, and let thine eyelids look straight before thee.

4:26    要修平你腳下的路，堅定你一切的道。
Ponder the path of thy feet, and let all thy ways be established.

4:27    不可偏向左右。要使你的腳離開邪惡。
Turn not to the right hand nor to the left: remove thy foot from evil.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


5:1    我兒，要留心我智慧的話語，側耳聽我聰明的言詞。
My son, attend unto my wisdom, and bow thine ear to my understanding:

5:2    為要使你謹守謀略，嘴脣儲存知識。
That thou mayest regard discretion, and that thy lips may keep knowledge.

5:3    因為淫婦的嘴滴下蜂蜜，他的口比油更滑。
For the lips of a strange woman drop as an honeycomb, and her mouth is smoother than oil:

5:4    至終卻苦似茵？？，快如兩刃的刀。
But her end is bitter as wormwood, sharp as a two-edged sword.

5:5    他的腳，下入死地。他腳步，踏住陰間。
Her feet go down to death; her steps take hold on hell.

5:6    以致他找不著生命平坦的道。他的路變遷不定，自己還不知道。
Lest thou shouldest ponder the path of life, her ways are moveable, that thou canst not know them.

5:7    眾子阿，現在要聽從我，不可離棄我口中的話。
Hear me now therefore, O ye children, and depart not from the words of my mouth.

5:8    你所行的道要離他遠，不可就近他的房門。
Remove thy way far from her, and come not nigh the door of her house:

5:9    恐怕將你的尊榮給別人，將你的歲月給殘忍的人。
Lest thou give thine honour unto others, and thy years unto the cruel:

5:10    恐怕外人滿得你的力量，你勞碌得來的，歸入外人的家。
Lest strangers be filled with thy wealth; and thy labours be in the house of a stranger;

5:11    終久你皮肉和身體消毀，你就悲嘆，
And thou mourn at the last, when thy flesh and thy body are consumed,

5:12    說，我怎嗎恨惡訓誨，心中藐視責備，
And say, How have I hated instruction, and my heart despised reproof;

5:13    也不聽從我師父的話，又不側耳聽那教訓我的人。
And have not obeyed the voice of my teachers, nor inclined mine ear to them that instructed me!

5:14    我在聖會裡，幾乎落在諸般惡中。
I was almost in all evil in the midst of the congregation and assembly.

5:15    你要喝自己池中的水，飲自己井裡的活水。
Drink waters out of thine own cistern, and running waters out of thine own well.

5:16    你的泉源豈可漲溢在外。你的河水豈可流在街上。
Let thy fountains be dispersed abroad, and rivers of waters in the streets.

5:17    惟獨歸你一人，不可與外人同用。
Let them be only thine own, and not strangers' with thee.

5:18    要使你的泉源蒙福。要喜悅你幼年所娶的妻。
Let thy fountain be blessed: and rejoice with the wife of thy youth.

5:19    他如可愛的？？鹿，可喜的母鹿。願他的胸懷，使你時時知足。他的愛情，使你常常戀慕。
Let her be as the loving hind and pleasant roe; let her breasts satisfy thee at all times; and be thou ravished always with her love.

5:20    我兒，你為何戀慕淫婦，為何抱外女的胸懷。
And why wilt thou, my son, be ravished with a strange woman, and embrace the bosom of a stranger?

5:21    因為人所行的道，都在耶和華眼前。他也修平人一切的路。
For the ways of man are before the eyes of the LORD, and he pondereth all his goings.

5:22    惡人必被自己的罪孽捉住。他必被自己的罪惡如繩索纏繞。
His own iniquities shall take the wicked himself, and he shall be holden with the cords of his sins.

5:23    他因不受訓誨，就必死亡。又因愚昧過甚，必走差了路。
He shall die without instruction; and in the greatness of his folly he shall go astray.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


6:1    我兒，你若為朋友作保，替外人擊掌，
My son, if thou be surety for thy friend, if thou hast stricken thy hand with a stranger,

6:2    你就被口中的話語纏住，被嘴裡的言語捉住。
Thou art snared with the words of thy mouth, thou art taken with the words of thy mouth.

6:3    我兒，你既落在朋友手中，就當這樣行，才可救自己。你要自卑，去懇求你的朋友。
Do this now, my son, and deliver thyself, when thou art come into the hand of thy friend; go, humble thyself, and make sure thy friend.

6:4    不要容你的眼睛睡覺，不要容你的眼皮打盹。
Give not sleep to thine eyes, nor slumber to thine eyelids.

6:5    要救自己，如鹿脫離獵戶的手，如鳥脫離捕鳥人的手。
Deliver thyself as a roe from the hand of the hunter, and as a bird from the hand of the fowler.

6:6    懶惰人哪，你去察看螞蟻的動作，就可得智慧。
Go to the ant, thou sluggard; consider her ways, and be wise:

6:7    螞蟻沒有元帥，沒有官長，沒有君王，
Which having no guide, overseer, or ruler,

6:8    尚且在夏天豫備食物，在收割時聚斂糧食。
Provideth her meat in the summer, and gathereth her food in the harvest.

6:9    懶惰人哪，你要睡到幾時呢。你何時睡醒呢。
How long wilt thou sleep, O sluggard? when wilt thou arise out of thy sleep?

6:10    再睡片時，打盹片時，抱著手躺臥片時，
Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:

6:11    你的貪窮就必如強盜速來，你的缺乏彷彿拿兵器的人來到。
So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth, and thy want as an armed man.

6:12    無賴的惡徒，行動就用乖僻的口。
A naughty person, a wicked man, walketh with a froward mouth.

6:13    用眼傳神，用腳示意，用指點劃。
He winketh with his eyes, he speaketh with his feet, he teacheth with his fingers;

6:14    心中乖僻，常設惡謀，佈散分爭。
Frowardness is in his heart, he deviseth mischief continually; he soweth discord.

6:15    所以災難必忽然臨到他身。他必頃刻敗壞無法可治。
Therefore shall his calamity come suddenly; suddenly shall he be broken without remedy.

6:16    耶和華所恨惡的有六樣，連他心所憎惡的共有七樣。
These six things doth the LORD hate: yea, seven are an abomination unto him:



6:17    就是高傲的眼，撒謊的舌，流無辜人血的手，
A proud look, a lying tongue, and hands that shed innocent blood,

6:18    圖謀惡計的心，飛跑行惡的腳，
An heart that deviseth wicked imaginations, feet that be swift in running to mischief,

6:19    吐謊言的假見證，並弟兄中佈散分爭的人。
A false witness that speaketh lies, and he that soweth discord among brethren.

6:20    我兒，要謹守你父親的誡命，不可離棄你母親的法則。（或作指教）
My son, keep thy father's commandment, and forsake not the law of thy mother:

6:21    要常系在你心上，掛在你項上。
Bind them continually upon thine heart, and tie them about thy neck.

6:22    你行走，他必引導你。你躺臥，他必保守你。你睡醒，他必與你談論。
When thou goest, it shall lead thee; when thou sleepest, it shall keep thee; and when thou awakest, it shall talk with thee.

6:23    因為誡命是燈，法則（或作指教）是光。訓誨的責備是生命的道。
For the commandment is a lamp; and the law is light; and reproofs of instruction are the way of life:

6:24    能保你遠離惡婦，遠離外女諂媚的舌頭。
To keep thee from the evil woman, from the flattery of the tongue of a strange woman.

6:25    你心中不要戀慕他的美色，也不要被他的眼皮勾引。
Lust not after her beauty in thine heart; neither let her take thee with her eyelids.

6:26    因為妓女能使人只剩一塊餅，淫婦獵取人寶貴的生命。
For by means of a whorish woman a man is brought to a piece of bread: and the adulteress will hunt for the precious life.

6:27    人若懷裡搋火，衣服豈能不燒呢。
Can a man take fire in his bosom, and his clothes not be burned?

6:28    人若在火炭上走，腳豈能不燙呢。
Can one go upon hot coals, and his feet not be burned?

6:29    親近鄰舍之妻的，也是如此。凡挨近他的，不免受罰。
So he that goeth in to his neighbour's wife; whosoever toucheth her shall not be innocent.

6:30    賊因飢餓偷竊充飢，人不藐視他。
Men do not despise a thief, if he steal to satisfy his soul when he is hungry;

6:31    若被找著，他必賠還七倍。必將家中所有的，盡都償還。
But if he be found, he shall restore sevenfold; he shall give all the substance of his house.

6:32    與婦人行淫的，便是無知，行這事的，必喪掉生命。
But whoso committeth adultery with a woman lacketh understanding: he that doeth it destroyeth his own soul.

6:33    他必受傷損，必被凌辱。他的羞恥不得塗抹。
A wound and dishonour shall he get; and his reproach shall not be wiped away.

6:34    因為人的嫉恨，成了烈怒。報仇的時候，決不留情。
For jealousy is the rage of a man: therefore he will not spare in the day of vengeance.

6:35    什嗎贖價，他都不顧。你雖送許多禮物，他也不肯干休。
He will not regard any ransom; neither will he rest content, though thou givest many gifts.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


7:1    我兒，你要遵守我的言語，將我的命令存記在心。
My son, keep my words, and lay up my commandments with thee.

7:2    遵守我的命令，就得存活。保守我的法則，（或作指教）好像保守眼中的瞳人。
Keep my commandments, and live; and my law as the apple of thine eye.

7:3    系在你指頭上，刻在你心版上。
Bind them upon thy fingers, write them upon the table of thine heart.

7:4    對智慧說，你是我的姊妹。稱呼聰明為你的親人。
Say unto wisdom, Thou art my sister; and call understanding thy kinswoman:

7:5    他就保你遠離淫婦，遠離說諂媚話的外女。
That they may keep thee from the strange woman, from the stranger which flattereth with her words.

7:6    我曾在我房屋的窗戶內，從我窗櫺之間，往外觀看。
For at the window of my house I looked through my casement,

7:7    見愚昧人內，少年人中，分明有一個無知的少年人，
And beheld among the simple ones, I discerned among the youths, a young man void of understanding,

7:8    從街上經過，走近淫婦的巷口，直往通他家的路去，
Passing through the street near her corner; and he went the way to her house,

7:9    在黃昏，或晚上，或半夜，或黑暗之中，
In the twilight, in the evening, in the black and dark night:

7:10    看哪，有一個婦人來迎接他，是妓女的打扮，有詭詐的心思。
And, behold, there met him a woman with the attire of an harlot, and subtil of heart.

7:11    這婦人喧囔不守約束，在家裡停不住腳。
(She is loud and stubborn; her feet abide not in her house:

7:12    有時在街市上，有時在寬闊處，或在各巷口蹲伏。
Now is she without, now in the streets, and lieth in wait at every corner.)

7:13    拉住那少年人，與他親嘴，臉無羞恥對他說，
So she caught him, and kissed him, and with an impudent face said unto him,

7:14    平安祭在我這裡。今日才還了我所許的願。
I have peace offerings with me; this day have I payed my vows.

7:15    因此，我出來迎接你，懇求見你的面，恰巧遇見了你。
Therefore came I forth to meet thee, diligently to seek thy face, and I have found thee.

7:16    我以經用繡花毯子，和埃及線織的花紋布，鋪了我的床。
I have decked my bed with coverings of tapestry, with carved works, with fine linen of Egypt.

7:17    我又用沒藥，沉香，桂皮，薰了我的榻。
I have perfumed my bed with myrrh, aloes, and cinnamon.

7:18    你來，我們可以飽享愛情，直到早晨。我們可以彼此親愛歡樂。
Come, let us take our fill of love until the morning: let us solace ourselves with loves.

7:19    因為我丈夫不在家，出門行遠路。
For the goodman is not at home, he is gone a long journey:

7:20    他手拿銀囊。必到月望才回家。
He hath taken a bag of money with him, and will come home at the day appointed.

7:21    淫婦用許多巧言誘他隨從，用諂媚的嘴逼他同行。
With her much fair speech she caused him to yield, with the flattering of her lips she forced him.

7:22    少年人立刻跟隨他，好像牛往宰殺之地，又像愚昧人帶鎖鏈，去受刑罰。
He goeth after her straightway, as an ox goeth to the slaughter, or as a fool to the correction of the stocks;

7:23    直等箭穿他的肝，如同雀鳥急入網羅，卻不知是自喪己命。
Till a dart strike through his liver; as a bird hasteth to the snare, and knoweth not that it is for his life.

7:24    眾子阿，現在要聽從我，留心聽我口中的話。
Hearken unto me now therefore, O ye children, and attend to the words of my mouth.

7:25    你的心，不可偏向淫婦的道。不要入他的迷途。
Let not thine heart decline to her ways, go not astray in her paths.

7:26    因為被他傷害仆倒的不少。被他殺戳的而且甚多。
For she hath cast down many wounded: yea, many strong men have been slain by her.

7:27    他的家是在陰間之路，下到死亡之宮。
Her house is the way to hell, going down to the chambers of death.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


8:1    智慧豈不呼叫，聰明豈不發聲。
Doth not wisdom cry? and understanding put forth her voice?

8:2    他在道旁高處的頂上，在十字路口站立。
She standeth in the top of high places, by the way in the places of the paths.

8:3    在城門旁，在城門口，在城門洞，大聲說，
She crieth at the gates, at the entry of the city, at the coming in at the doors.

8:4    眾人哪，我呼叫你們。我向世人發聲，
Unto you, O men, I call; and my voice is to the sons of man.

8:5    說，愚昧人哪，你們要會悟靈明。愚昧人哪，你們當心裡明白。
O ye simple, understand wisdom: and, ye fools, be ye of an understanding heart.

8:6    你們當聽，因我要說極美的話。我張嘴要論正直的事。
Hear; for I will speak of excellent things; and the opening of my lips shall be right things.

8:7    我的口要發出真理。我的嘴憎惡邪惡。
For my mouth shall speak truth; and wickedness is an abomination to my lips.

8:8    我口中的言語，都是公義，並無彎曲乖僻。
All the words of my mouth are in righteousness; there is nothing froward or perverse in them.

8:9    有聰明的以為明顯，得知識的以為正直。
They are all plain to him that understandeth, and right to them that find knowledge.

8:10    你們當受我的教訓，不受白銀。寧得知識，勝過黃金。
Receive my instruction, and not silver; and knowledge rather than choice gold.

8:11    因為智慧比珍珠（或作紅寶石）更美。一切可喜愛的，都不足與比較。
For wisdom is better than rubies; and all the things that may be desired are not to be compared to it.

8:12    我智慧以靈明為居所，又尋得知識和謀略。
I wisdom dwell with prudence, and find out knowledge of witty inventions.

8:13    敬畏耶和華，在乎恨惡邪惡。那驕傲，狂妄，並惡道，以及乖謬的口，都為我所恨惡。
The fear of the LORD is to hate evil: pride, and arrogancy, and the evil way, and the froward mouth, do I hate.

8:14    我有謀略，和真知識。我乃聰明。我有能力。
Counsel is mine, and sound wisdom: I am understanding; I have strength.

8:15    帝王藉我坐國位。君王藉我定公平。
By me kings reign, and princes decree justice.

8:16    王子和首領，世上一切的審判官，都是藉我掌權。
By me princes rule, and nobles, even all the judges of the earth.

8:17    愛我的，我也愛他。懇切尋求我的，必尋得見。
I love them that love me; and those that seek me early shall find me.

8:18    豐富尊榮在我。恆久的財並公義也在我。
Riches and honour are with me; yea, durable riches and righteousness.

8:19    我的果實勝過黃金。強如精金，我的出產超乎高銀。
My fruit is better than gold, yea, than fine gold; and my revenue than choice silver.



8:20    我在公義道上走，在公平的路上中行。
I lead in the way of righteousness, in the midst of the paths of judgment:

8:21    使愛我的承受貨財，並充滿他們的府庫。
That I may cause those that love me to inherit substance; and I will fill their treasures.

8:22    在耶和華造化的起頭，在太初創造萬物之先，就有了我。
The LORD possessed me in the beginning of his way, before his works of old.

8:23    從亙古，從太初，未有世界以前，我已被立。
I was set up from everlasting, from the beginning, or ever the earth was.

8:24    沒有深淵，沒有大水的泉源，我已生出。
When there were no depths, I was brought forth; when there were no fountains abounding with water.

8:25    大山未曾奠定，小山未有之先，我已生出。
Before the mountains were settled, before the hills was I brought forth:

8:26    耶和華還沒有創造大地，和田野，並世上的土質，我已生出。
While as yet he had not made the earth, nor the fields, nor the highest part of the dust of the world.

8:27    他立高天，我在那裡。他在淵面的周圍，劃出圓圈，
When he prepared the heavens, I was there: when he set a compass upon the face of the depth:

8:28    上使穹蒼堅硬，下使淵源穩固，
When he established the clouds above: when he strengthened the fountains of the deep:

8:29    為滄海定出界限，使水不越過他的命令，立定大地的根基。
When he gave to the sea his decree, that the waters should not pass his commandment: when he appointed the foundations of the earth:

8:30    那時，我在他那裡為工師，日日為他所喜愛，常常在他面前踴躍，
Then I was by him, as one brought up with him: and I was daily his delight, rejoicing always before him;

8:31    踴躍在他為人豫備可住之地，也喜悅住在世人之間。
Rejoicing in the habitable part of his earth; and my delights were with the sons of men.

8:32    眾子阿，現在要聽從我。因為謹守我道的，便為有福。
Now therefore hearken unto me, O ye children: for blessed are they that keep my ways.

8:33    要聽教訓，就得智慧，不可棄絕。
Hear instruction, and be wise, and refuse it not.

8:34    聽從我，日日在我門口仰望，在我門框旁邊等候的，那人便為有福。
Blessed is the man that heareth me, watching daily at my gates, waiting at the posts of my doors.

8:35    因為尋得我的，就尋得生命，也必蒙耶和華的恩惠。
For whoso findeth me findeth life, and shall obtain favour of the LORD.

8:36    得罪我的，卻害了自己的性命。恨惡我的，都喜愛死亡。
But he that sinneth against me wrongeth his own soul: all they that hate me love death.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


9:1    智慧建造房屋，鑿成七根柱子，
Wisdom hath builded her house, she hath hewn out her seven pillars:

9:2    宰殺牲畜，調和旨酒，設擺筵席。
She hath killed her beasts; she hath mingled her wine; she hath also furnished her table.

9:3    打發使女出去，自己在城中至高處呼叫，
She hath sent forth her maidens: she crieth upon the highest places of the city,

9:4    說，誰是愚蒙人，可以轉到這裡來。又對那無知的人說，
Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,

9:5    你們來，吃我的餅，喝我調和的酒。
Come, eat of my bread, and drink of the wine which I have mingled.

9:6    你們愚蒙人，要捨棄愚蒙，就得存活。並要走光明的道。
Forsake the foolish, and live; and go in the way of understanding.

9:7    指斥褻慢人的，必受辱罵。責備惡人的，必被玷汙。
He that reproveth a scorner getteth to himself shame: and he that rebuketh a wicked man getteth himself a blot.

9:8    不要責備褻慢人，恐怕他恨你。要責備智慧人，他必愛你。
Reprove not a scorner, lest he hate thee: rebuke a wise man, and he will love thee.

9:9    教導智慧人，他就越發有智慧。指示義人，他就增長學問。
Give instruction to a wise man, and he will be yet wiser: teach a just man, and he will increase in learning.

9:10    敬畏耶和華，是智慧的開端。認識至聖者，便是聰明。
The fear of the LORD is the beginning of wisdom: and the knowledge of the holy is understanding.

9:11    你藉著我，日子必增多，年歲也必加添。
For by me thy days shall be multiplied, and the years of thy life shall be increased.

9:12    你若有智慧，是與自己有益。你若褻慢，就必獨自擔當。
If thou be wise, thou shalt be wise for thyself: but if thou scornest, thou alone shalt bear it.

9:13    愚昧的婦人喧囔。他是愚蒙，一無所知。
A foolish woman is clamorous: she is simple, and knoweth nothing.

9:14    他坐在自己的家門口，坐在城中高處的座位上，
For she sitteth at the door of her house, on a seat in the high places of the city,

9:15    呼叫過路的，就是直行其道的人，
To call passengers who go right on their ways:

9:16    說，誰是愚蒙人，可以轉到這裡來。又對那無知的人說，
Whoso is simple, let him turn in hither: and as for him that wanteth understanding, she saith to him,

9:17    偷來的水是甜的，暗吃的餅是好的。
Stolen waters are sweet, and bread eaten in secret is pleasant.

9:18    人卻不知有陰魂在他那裡。他的客在陰間的深處。
But he knoweth not that the dead are there; and that her guests are in the depths of hell.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


10:1    所羅門的箴言。智慧之子，使父親歡樂。愚昧之子，叫母親擔憂。
The proverbs of Solomon. A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish son is the heaviness of his mother.

10:2    不義之財，毫無益處。惟有公義，能救人脫離死亡。
Treasures of wickedness profit nothing: but righteousness delivereth from death.

10:3    耶和華不使義人受飢餓。惡人所欲的他必推開。
The LORD will not suffer the soul of the righteous to famish: but he casteth away the substance of the wicked.

10:4    手懶的要受貧窮。手勤的卻要富足。
He becometh poor that dealeth with a slack hand: but the hand of the diligent maketh rich.

10:5    夏天聚斂的，是智慧之子。收割時沉睡的，是貽羞之子。
He that gathereth in summer is a wise son: but he that sleepeth in harvest is a son that causeth shame.

10:6    福祉臨到義人的頭。強暴矇蔽惡人的口。
Blessings are upon the head of the just: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.

10:7    義人的紀念被稱讚。惡人的名字必朽爛。
The memory of the just is blessed: but the name of the wicked shall rot.

10:8    心中智慧的，必受命令。口裡愚妄的，必致傾倒。
The wise in heart will receive commandments: but a prating fool shall fall.

10:9    行正直路的，步步安穩。走彎曲道的，必致敗露。
He that walketh uprightly walketh surely: but he that perverteth his ways shall be known.

10:10    以眼傳神的，使人憂患。口裡愚妄的，必致傾倒。
He that winketh with the eye causeth sorrow: but a prating fool shall fall.

10:11    義人的口是生命的泉源。強暴矇蔽惡人的口。
The mouth of a righteous man is a well of life: but violence covereth the mouth of the wicked.

10:12    恨能挑啟爭端。愛能遮掩一切過錯。
Hatred stirreth up strifes: but love covereth all sins.

10:13    明哲人嘴裡有智慧。無知人背上受刑杖。
In the lips of him that hath understanding wisdom is found: but a rod is for the back of him that is void of understanding.

10:14    智慧人積存知識。愚妄人的口速致敗壞。
Wise men lay up knowledge: but the mouth of the foolish is near destruction.

10:15    富戶的財物，是他的堅城。窮人的貧乏，是他的敗壞。
The rich man's wealth is his strong city: the destruction of the poor is their poverty.

10:16    義人的勤勞致生。惡人的進項致死。（死原文作罪）
The labour of the righteous tendeth to life: the fruit of the wicked to sin.

10:17    謹守訓誨的，乃在生命的道上。違棄責備的，便失迷了路。
He is in the way of life that keepeth instruction: but he that refuseth reproof erreth.

10:18    隱藏怨恨的，有說謊的嘴。口出讒謗的，是愚妄的人。
He that hideth hatred with lying lips, and he that uttereth a slander, is a fool.

10:19    多言多語難免有過。禁止嘴脣是有智慧。
In the multitude of words there wanteth not sin: but he that refraineth his lips is wise.

10:20    義人的舌，乃似高銀。惡人的心，所值無幾。
The tongue of the just is as choice silver: the heart of the wicked is little worth.

10:21    義人的口教養多人。愚昧人因無知而死亡。
The lips of the righteous feed many: but fools die for want of wisdom.

10:22    耶和華所賜的福，使人富足。並不加上憂慮。
The blessing of the LORD, it maketh rich, and he addeth no sorrow with it.

10:23    愚妄人以行惡為戲耍。明哲人卻以智慧為樂。
It is as sport to a fool to do mischief: but a man of understanding hath wisdom.

10:24    惡人所怕的必臨到他。義人所願的必蒙應允。
The fear of the wicked, it shall come upon him: but the desire of the righteous shall be granted.

10:25    暴風一過，惡人歸於無有。義人的根基卻是永久。
As the whirlwind passeth, so is the wicked no more: but the righteous is an everlasting foundation.

10:26    懶惰人叫差他的人，如醋倒牙，如煙薰目。
As vinegar to the teeth, and as smoke to the eyes, so is the sluggard to them that send him.

10:27    敬畏耶和華，使人日子加多。但惡人的年歲必被減少。
The fear of the LORD prolongeth days: but the years of the wicked shall be shortened.

10:28    義人的盼望，必得喜樂。惡人的指望，必至滅沒。
The hope of the righteous shall be gladness: but the expectation of the wicked shall perish.

10:29    耶和華的道，是正直人的保障。卻成了作孽人的敗壞。
The way of the LORD is strength to the upright: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.

10:30    義人永不挪移。惡人不得住在地上。
The righteous shall never be removed: but the wicked shall not inhabit the earth.

10:31    義人的口，滋生智慧。乖謬的舌，必被割斷。
The mouth of the just bringeth forth wisdom: but the froward tongue shall be cut out.

10:32    義人的嘴，能令人喜悅。惡人的口，說乖謬的話。
The lips of the righteous know what is acceptable: but the mouth of the wicked speaketh frowardness.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


11:1    詭詐的天平，為耶和華所憎惡。公平的法碼，為他所喜悅。
A false balance is abomination to the LORD: but a just weight is his delight.

11:2    驕傲來，羞恥也來。謙遜人卻有智慧。
When pride cometh, then cometh shame: but with the lowly is wisdom.

11:3    正直人的純正，必引導自己。奸詐人的乖僻，必毀滅自己。
The integrity of the upright shall guide them: but the perverseness of transgressors shall destroy them.

11:4    發怒的日子，貲財無益。惟有公義能救人脫離死亡。
Riches profit not in the day of wrath: but righteousness delivereth from death.

11:5    完全人的義，必指引他的路。但惡人必因自己的惡跌倒。
The righteousness of the perfect shall direct his way: but the wicked shall fall by his own wickedness.

11:6    正直人的義，必拯救自己。奸詐人必陷在自己的罪孽中。
The righteousness of the upright shall deliver them: but transgressors shall be taken in their own naughtiness.

11:7    惡人一死，他的指望必滅絕。罪人的盼望，也必滅沒。
When a wicked man dieth, his expectation shall perish: and the hope of unjust men perisheth.

11:8    義人得脫離患難，有惡人來代替他。
The righteous is delivered out of trouble, and the wicked cometh in his stead.

11:9    不虔敬的人用口敗壞鄰舍。義人卻因知識得救。
An hypocrite with his mouth destroyeth his neighbour: but through knowledge shall the just be delivered.

11:10    義人享福合城喜樂。惡人滅亡，人都歡呼。
When it goeth well with the righteous, the city rejoiceth: and when the wicked perish, there is shouting.

11:11    城因正直人祝福便高舉。卻因邪惡人的口就傾覆。
By the blessing of the upright the city is exalted: but it is overthrown by the mouth of the wicked.

11:12    藐視鄰舍的，毫無智慧。明哲人卻靜默不言。
He that is void of wisdom despiseth his neighbour: but a man of understanding holdeth his peace.

11:13    往來傳舌的，洩漏密事。心中誠實的，遮隱事情。
A talebearer revealeth secrets: but he that is of a faithful spirit concealeth the matter.

11:14    無智謀，民就敗落。謀士多，人便安居。
Where no counsel is, the people fall: but in the multitude of counsellors there is safety.

11:15    外人作保的，必受虧損。恨惡擊掌的，卻得安穩。
He that is surety for a stranger shall smart for it: and he that hateth suretiship is sure.

11:16    恩德的婦女得尊榮。強暴的男子得貲財。
A gracious woman retaineth honour: and strong men retain riches.

11:17    仁慈的人，善待自己。殘忍的人，擾害己身。
The merciful man doeth good to his own soul: but he that is cruel troubleth his own flesh.

11:18    惡人經營，得虛浮的工價。撒義種的，得實在的果效。
The wicked worketh a deceitful work: but to him that soweth righteousness shall be a sure reward.

11:19    恆心為義的，必得生命。追求邪惡的，必致死亡。
As righteousness tendeth to life: so he that pursueth evil pursueth it to his own death.

11:20    心中乖僻的，為耶和華所憎惡。行事完全的，為他所喜悅。
They that are of a froward heart are abomination to the LORD: but such as are upright in their way are his delight.

11:21    惡人雖然連手，必不免受罰。義人的後裔，必得拯救。
Though hand join in hand, the wicked shall not be unpunished: but the seed of the righteous shall be delivered.

11:22    婦女美貌而無見識，如同金環帶在豬鼻上。
As a jewel of gold in a swine's snout, so is a fair woman which is without discretion.

11:23    義人的心願，盡得好處。惡人的指望，致幹忿怒。
The desire of the righteous is only good: but the expectation of the wicked is wrath.

11:24    有施散的，卻更增添。有吝惜過度的，反致窮乏。
There is that scattereth, and yet increaseth; and there is that withholdeth more than is meet, but it tendeth to poverty.

11:25    好施捨的，必得豐裕。滋潤人的，必得滋潤。
The liberal soul shall be made fat: and he that watereth shall be watered also himself.

11:26    屯糧不賣的，民必咒詛他。情願出賣的，人必為他祝福。
He that withholdeth corn, the people shall curse him: but blessing shall be upon the head of him that selleth it.

11:27    懇切求善的，就求得恩惠。惟獨求惡的，惡必臨到他身。
He that diligently seeketh good procureth favour: but he that seeketh mischief, it shall come unto him.

11:28    依仗自己財物的，必跌倒。義人必發旺如青葉。
He that trusteth in his riches shall fall; but the righteous shall flourish as a branch.

11:29    擾害己家的，必承受清風。愚昧人必作慧心人的僕人。
He that troubleth his own house shall inherit the wind: and the fool shall be servant to the wise of heart.

11:30    義人所結的果子，就是生命樹。有智慧的必能得人。
The fruit of the righteous is a tree of life; and he that winneth souls is wise.

11:31    看哪，義人在世尚且受報，何況惡人和罪人呢。
Behold, the righteous shall be recompensed in the earth: much more the wicked and the sinner.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


12:1    喜愛管教的，就是喜愛知識。恨惡責備的，卻是畜類。
Whoso loveth instruction loveth knowledge: but he that hateth reproof is brutish.

12:2    善人必蒙耶和華的嗯惠。設詭計的人，耶和華必定他得罪。
A good man obtaineth favour of the LORD: but a man of wicked devices will he condemn.

12:3    人靠惡行不能堅立。義人的根，必不動搖。
A man shall not be established by wickedness: but the root of the righteous shall not be moved.

12:4    才德的婦人，是丈夫的冠冕。貽羞的婦人，如同朽爛在他丈夫的骨中。
A virtuous woman is a crown to her husband: but she that maketh ashamed is as rottenness in his bones.

12:5    義人的思念是公平。惡人的計謀是詭詐。
The thoughts of the righteous are right: but the counsels of the wicked are deceit.

12:6    惡人的言論，是埋伏流人的血。正直人的口，必拯救人。
The words of the wicked are to lie in wait for blood: but the mouth of the upright shall deliver them.

12:7    惡人傾覆，歸於無有。義人的家，必站得住。
The wicked are overthrown, and are not: but the house of the righteous shall stand.

12:8    人必按自己的智慧被稱讚。心中乖謬的，必被藐視。
A man shall be commended according to his wisdom: but he that is of a perverse heart shall be despised.

12:9    被人輕賤，卻有僕人，強如自尊，缺少食物。
He that is despised, and hath a servant, is better than he that honoureth himself, and lacketh bread.

12:10    義人顧惜他牲畜的命。惡人的憐憫，也是殘忍。
A righteous man regardeth the life of his beast: but the tender mercies of the wicked are cruel.

12:11    耕種自己田地的，必得飽食。追隨虛浮的，卻是無知。
He that tilleth his land shall be satisfied with bread: but he that followeth vain persons is void of understanding.

12:12    惡人想得壞人的網羅。義人的根，得以結實。
The wicked desireth the net of evil men: but the root of the righteous yieldeth fruit.

12:13    惡人嘴中的過錯，是自己的網羅。但義人必脫離患難。
The wicked is snared by the transgression of his lips: but the just shall come out of trouble.

12:14    人因口所結的果子，必飽得美福。人手所作的，必為自己的報應。
A man shall be satisfied with good by the fruit of his mouth: and the recompence of a man's hands shall be rendered unto him.

12:15    愚妄人所行的，在自己的眼中看為正直。惟智慧人，肯聽人的勸教。
The way of a fool is right in his own eyes: but he that hearkeneth unto counsel is wise.

12:16    愚妄人的惱怒，立時顯露。通達人能忍辱藏羞。
A fool's wrath is presently known: but a prudent man covereth shame.

12:17    說出真話的，顯明公義。作假見證的，顯出詭詐。
He that speaketh truth sheweth forth righteousness: but a false witness deceit.

12:18    說話浮躁的，如刀刺人。智慧人的舌頭，卻為醫人的良藥。
There is that speaketh like the piercings of a sword: but the tongue of the wise is health.

12:19    口吐真言，永遠堅立。舌說謊話，只存片時。
The lip of truth shall be established for ever: but a lying tongue is but for a moment.

12:20    圖謀惡事的，心存詭詐。勸人和睦的，便得喜樂。
Deceit is in the heart of them that imagine evil: but to the counsellors of peace is joy.

12:21    義人不遭災害惡人滿受禍患。
There shall no evil happen to the just: but the wicked shall be filled with mischief.

12:22    說謊言的嘴，為耶和華所憎惡。行事誠實的，為他所喜悅。
Lying lips are abomination to the LORD: but they that deal truly are his delight.

12:23    通達人隱藏知識。愚昧人的心，彰顯愚昧。
A prudent man concealeth knowledge: but the heart of fools proclaimeth foolishness.

12:24    殷勤人的手必掌權。懶惰的人必服苦。
The hand of the diligent shall bear rule: but the slothful shall be under tribute.

12:25    人心憂慮，屈而不伸。一句良言，使心歡樂。
Heaviness in the heart of man maketh it stoop: but a good word maketh it glad.

12:26    義人引導他的鄰舍。惡人的道，叫人失迷。
The righteous is more excellent than his neighbour: but the way of the wicked seduceth them.

12:27    懶惰的人，不烤打獵所得的。殷勤的人，卻得寶貴的財物。
The slothful man roasteth not that which he took in hunting: but the substance of a diligent man is precious.

12:28    在公義的道上有生命。其路之中，並無死亡。
In the way of righteousness is life: and in the pathway thereof there is no death.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


13:1    智慧子聽父親的教訓。褻慢人不聽責備。
A wise son heareth his father's instruction: but a scorner heareth not rebuke.

13:2    人因口所結的果子，必享美福。奸詐人必遭強暴。
A man shall eat good by the fruit of his mouth: but the soul of the transgressors shall eat violence.

13:3    謹守口的，得保生命。大張嘴的，必致敗亡。
He that keepeth his mouth keepeth his life: but he that openeth wide his lips shall have destruction.

13:4    懶惰人羨慕，卻無所得。殷勤人必得豐裕。
The soul of the sluggard desireth, and hath nothing: but the soul of the diligent shall be made fat.

13:5    義人恨惡謊言。惡人有臭名，且致慚愧。
A righteous man hateth lying: but a wicked man is loathsome, and cometh to shame.

13:6    行為正直的，有公義保守。犯罪的被邪惡傾覆。
Righteousness keepeth him that is upright in the way: but wickedness overthroweth the sinner.

13:7    假作富足的，卻一無所有。裝作窮乏的，卻廣有財物。
There is that maketh himself rich, yet hath nothing: there is that maketh himself poor, yet hath great riches.

13:8    人的貲財，是他生命的贖價。窮乏人卻聽不見威嚇的話。
The ransom of a man's life are his riches: but the poor heareth not rebuke.

13:9    義人的光明亮。（明亮原文作喜歡）惡人的燈要熄滅。
The light of the righteous rejoiceth: but the lamp of the wicked shall be put out.

13:10    驕傲只啟爭競。聽勸言的，卻有智慧。
Only by pride cometh contention: but with the well advised is wisdom.

13:11    不勞而得之財，必然消耗。勤勞積蓄的，必見加增。
Wealth gotten by vanity shall be diminished: but he that gathereth by labour shall increase.

13:12    所盼望的遲延未得，令人心憂。所願意的臨到，卻是生命樹。
Hope deferred maketh the heart sick: but when the desire cometh, it is a tree of life.

13:13    藐視訓言的，自取滅亡。敬畏誡命的，必得善報。
Whoso despiseth the word shall be destroyed: but he that feareth the commandment shall be rewarded.

13:14    智慧人的法則，（或作指教）是生命的泉源，可以使人離開死亡的網羅。
The law of the wise is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.

13:15    美好的聰明，使人蒙恩。奸詐人的道路，崎嶇難行。
Good understanding giveth favour: but the way of transgressors is hard.

13:16    凡通達人都憑知識行事。愚昧人張揚自己的愚昧。
Every prudent man dealeth with knowledge: but a fool layeth open his folly.

13:17    奸惡的使者，必陷在禍患裡。忠信的使臣，乃醫人的良藥。
A wicked messenger falleth into mischief: but a faithful ambassador is health.

13:18    棄絕教管的，必致貧受辱。領受責備的，必得尊榮。
Poverty and shame shall be to him that refuseth instruction: but he that regardeth reproof shall be honoured.

13:19    所欲的成就，心覺甘甜。遠離惡事，為愚昧人所憎惡。
The desire accomplished is sweet to the soul: but it is abomination to fools to depart from evil.

13:20    與智慧人同行的，必得智慧。和愚昧人作伴的，必受虧損。
He that walketh with wise men shall be wise: but a companion of fools shall be destroyed.

13:21    禍患追趕罪人。義人必得善報。
Evil pursueth sinners: but to the righteous good shall be repayed.

13:22    善人給子孫遺留產業。罪人為義人積存貲財。
A good man leaveth an inheritance to his children's children: and the wealth of the sinner is laid up for the just.

13:23    窮人耕種多得糧食，但因不義有消滅的。
Much food is in the tillage of the poor: but there is that is destroyed for want of judgment.

13:24    不忍用杖打兒子的，是恨惡他。疼愛兒子的，隨時管教。
He that spareth his rod hateth his son: but he that loveth him chasteneth him betimes.

13:25    義人吃得飽足。惡人肚腹缺糧。
The righteous eateth to the satisfying of his soul: but the belly of the wicked shall want.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


14:1    智慧婦人，建立家室。愚妄婦人，親手拆毀。
Every wise woman buildeth her house: but the foolish plucketh it down with her hands.

14:2    行動正直的，敬畏耶和華。乖僻的，卻藐視他。
He that walketh in his uprightness feareth the LORD: but he that is perverse in his ways despiseth him.

14:3    愚妄人口中驕傲，如杖責打己身。智慧人的嘴，必保守自己。
In the mouth of the foolish is a rod of pride: but the lips of the wise shall preserve them.

14:4    家裡無牛，槽頭乾淨。土產加多，乃憑牛力。
Where no oxen are, the crib is clean: but much increase is by the strength of the ox.

14:5    誠實見證人，不說謊話。假見證人，吐出謊言。
A faithful witness will not lie: but a false witness will utter lies.

14:6    褻慢人尋智慧，卻尋不著。聰明人易得知識。
A scorner seeketh wisdom, and findeth it not: but knowledge is easy unto him that understandeth.

14:7    到愚昧人面前，不見他嘴中有知識。
Go from the presence of a foolish man, when thou perceivest not in him the lips of knowledge.

14:8    通達人的智慧，在乎明白己道。愚昧人的愚妄，乃是詭詐。（或作自欺）
The wisdom of the prudent is to understand his way: but the folly of fools is deceit.

14:9    愚妄人犯罪，以為戲耍。（或作贖愆祭愚弄愚妄人）正直人互相喜悅。
Fools make a mock at sin: but among the righteous there is favour.

14:10    心中的苦楚，自己知道。心裡的喜樂，外人無干。
The heart knoweth his own bitterness; and a stranger doth not intermeddle with his joy.

14:11    奸惡人的房屋必傾倒。正直人的帳棚必興盛。
The house of the wicked shall be overthrown: but the tabernacle of the upright shall flourish.

14:12    有一條路人以為正。至終成為死亡之路。
There is a way which seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.

14:13    人在喜笑中，心也憂愁。快樂至極，就生愁苦。
Even in laughter the heart is sorrowful; and the end of that mirth is heaviness.

14:14    心中背道的，必滿得自己的結果。善人必從自己（的行為，得以知足）
The backslider in heart shall be filled with his own ways: and a good man shall be satisfied from himself.

14:15    愚蒙人是話都信。通達人處處謹慎。
The simple believeth every word: but the prudent man looketh well to his going.

14:16    智慧人懼怕，就遠離惡事。愚妄人卻狂傲自恃。
A wise man feareth, and departeth from evil: but the fool rageth, and is confident.

14:17    輕易發怒的，行事愚妄。設立詭計的，被人恨惡。
He that is soon angry dealeth foolishly: and a man of wicked devices is hated.

14:18    愚蒙人得愚昧為產業。通達人得知識為冠冕。
The simple inherit folly: but the prudent are crowned with knowledge.

14:19    壞人俯伏在善人面前。惡人俯伏在義人門口。
The evil bow before the good; and the wicked at the gates of the righteous.

14:20    貧窮人連鄰舍也恨他。富足人朋友最多。
The poor is hated even of his own neighbour: but the rich hath many friends.

14:21    藐視鄰舍的，這人有罪。憐憫貧窮的，這人有福。
He that despiseth his neighbour sinneth: but he that hath mercy on the poor, happy is he.

14:22    謀惡的豈非走入迷途嗎。謀善的必得慈愛和誠實。
Do they not err that devise evil? but mercy and truth shall be to them that devise good.

14:23    諸般勤勞，都有益處。嘴上多言，乃致窮乏。
In all labour there is profit: but the talk of the lips tendeth only to penury.

14:24    智慧人的財，為自己的冠冕。愚妄人的愚昧，終是愚昧。
The crown of the wise is their riches: but the foolishness of fools is folly.

14:25    作真見證的，救人性命。吐出謊言的，施行詭詐。
A true witness delivereth souls: but a deceitful witness speaketh lies.

14:26    敬畏耶和華的，大有依靠。他的兒女，也有避難所。
In the fear of the LORD is strong confidence: and his children shall have a place of refuge.

14:27    敬畏耶和華，就是生命的泉源，可以使人離開死亡的網羅。
The fear of the LORD is a fountain of life, to depart from the snares of death.

14:28    帝王榮耀在乎民多。君王衰敗在乎民少。
In the multitude of people is the king's honour: but in the want of people is the destruction of the prince.

14:29    不輕易發怒的，大有聰明。性情暴躁的，大顯愚妄。
He that is slow to wrath is of great understanding: but he that is hasty of spirit exalteth folly.

14:30    心中安靜，是肉體的生命。嫉妒是骨中的朽爛。
A sound heart is the life of the flesh: but envy the rottenness of the bones.

14:31    欺壓貧寒的，是辱沒造他的主。憐憫窮乏的，乃是尊敬主
He that oppresseth the poor reproacheth his Maker: but he that honoureth him hath mercy on the poor.

14:32    惡人在所行的惡上，必被推倒。義人臨死，有所投靠。
The wicked is driven away in his wickedness: but the righteous hath hope in his death.

14:33    智慧存在聰明人心中。愚昧人心裡所存的，顯而易見。
Wisdom resteth in the heart of him that hath understanding: but that which is in the midst of fools is made known.

14:34    公義使邦國高舉。罪惡是人民的羞辱。
Righteousness exalteth a nation: but sin is a reproach to any people.

14:35    智慧的臣子，蒙王恩惠。貽羞的僕人，遭其震怒。
The king's favour is toward a wise servant: but his wrath is against him that causeth shame.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


15:1    回答柔和，使怒消退。言語暴戾，觸動怒氣。
A soft answer turneth away wrath: but grievous words stir up anger.

15:2    智慧人的舌，善發知識。愚昧人的口，吐出愚昧。
The tongue of the wise useth knowledge aright: but the mouth of fools poureth out foolishness.

15:3    耶和華的眼目，無處不在。惡人善人，他都鑑察。
The eyes of the LORD are in every place, beholding the evil and the good.

15:4    溫良的舌，是生命樹。乖謬的嘴，使人心碎。
A wholesome tongue is a tree of life: but perverseness therein is a breach in the spirit.

15:5    愚妄人藐視父親的管教。領受責備的，得著見識。
A fool despiseth his father's instruction: but he that regardeth reproof is prudent.

15:6    義人家中，多有財寶。惡人得利，反受擾害。
In the house of the righteous is much treasure: but in the revenues of the wicked is trouble.

15:7    智慧人的嘴，播揚知識。愚昧人的心，並不如此。
The lips of the wise disperse knowledge: but the heart of the foolish doeth not so.

15:8    惡人獻祭，為耶和華所憎惡。正直人祈禱，為他所喜悅。
The sacrifice of the wicked is an abomination to the LORD: but the prayer of the upright is his delight.

15:9    惡人的道路，為耶和華所憎惡。追求公義的，為他所喜愛。
The way of the wicked is an abomination unto the LORD: but he loveth him that followeth after righteousness.

15:10    捨棄正路的，必受嚴刑。恨惡責備的，必致死亡。
Correction is grievous unto him that forsaketh the way: and he that hateth reproof shall die.

15:11    陰間和死亡，尚在耶和華眼前，何況世人的心呢。
Hell and destruction are before the LORD: how much more then the hearts of the children of men?

15:12    褻慢人不愛受責備。他也不就近智慧人。
A scorner loveth not one that reproveth him: neither will he go unto the wise.

15:13    心中喜樂，面帶笑容。心裡憂愁，靈被損傷。
A merry heart maketh a cheerful countenance: but by sorrow of the heart the spirit is broken.

15:14    聰明人心求知識。愚昧人口吃愚昧。
The heart of him that hath understanding seeketh knowledge: but the mouth of fools feedeth on foolishness.

15:15    困苦人的日子，都是愁苦。心中歡暢的，常享豐筵。
All the days of the afflicted are evil: but he that is of a merry heart hath a continual feast.

15:16    少有財寶，敬畏耶和華，強如多有財寶，煩亂不安。
Better is little with the fear of the LORD than great treasure and trouble therewith.

15:17    吃素菜，彼此相愛，強如吃肥牛，彼此相恨。
Better is a dinner of herbs where love is, than a stalled ox and hatred therewith.

15:18    暴怒的人，挑啟爭端。忍怒的人，止息分爭。
A wrathful man stirreth up strife: but he that is slow to anger appeaseth strife.

15:19    懶惰人的道，像荊棘的籬笆。正直人的路，是平坦的大道。
The way of the slothful man is as an hedge of thorns: but the way of the righteous is made plain.

15:20    智慧子使父親喜樂。愚昧人藐視母親。
A wise son maketh a glad father: but a foolish man despiseth his mother.

15:21    無知的人，以愚妄為樂。聰明的人，按正直而行。
Folly is joy to him that is destitute of wisdom: but a man of understanding walketh uprightly.

15:22    不先商議，所謀無效。謀士眾多，所謀乃成。
Without counsel purposes are disappointed: but in the multitude of counsellors they are established.

15:23    口善應對，自覺喜樂。話合其時，何等美好。
A man hath joy by the answer of his mouth: and a word spoken in due season, how good is it!

15:24    智慧人從生命的道上升，使他遠離在下的陰間。
The way of life is above to the wise, that he may depart from hell beneath.

15:25    耶和華必拆毀驕傲人的家。卻要立定寡婦的地界。
The LORD will destroy the house of the proud: but he will establish the border of the widow.

15:26    惡謀為耶和華所憎惡。良言乃為純淨。
The thoughts of the wicked are an abomination to the LORD: but the words of the pure are pleasant words.

15:27    貪戀財利的，擾害己家。恨惡賄賂的，必得存活。
He that is greedy of gain troubleth his own house; but he that hateth gifts shall live.

15:28    義人的心，思量如何回答。惡人的口，吐出惡言。
The heart of the righteous studieth to answer: but the mouth of the wicked poureth out evil things.

15:29    耶和華遠離惡人。卻聽義人的禱告。
The LORD is far from the wicked: but he heareth the prayer of the righteous.

15:30    眼有光使心喜樂。好資訊使骨滋潤。
The light of the eyes rejoiceth the heart: and a good report maketh the bones fat.

15:31    聽從生命責備的，必常在智慧人中。
The ear that heareth the reproof of life abideth among the wise.

15:32    棄絕管教的，輕看自己的生命。聽從責備的，卻得智慧。
He that refuseth instruction despiseth his own soul: but he that heareth reproof getteth understanding.

15:33    敬畏耶和華，是智慧的訓誨。尊榮以前，必有謙卑。
The fear of the LORD is the instruction of wisdom; and before honour is humility.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


16:1    心中的謀算在乎人。舌頭的應對，由於耶和華。
The preparations of the heart in man, and the answer of the tongue, is from the LORD.

16:2    人一切所行的，在自己眼中看為清潔。惟有耶和華衡量人心。
All the ways of a man are clean in his own eyes; but the LORD weigheth the spirits.

16:3    你所作的，要交託耶和華，你所謀的，就必成立。
Commit thy works unto the LORD, and thy thoughts shall be established.

16:4    耶和華所造的，各適其用。就是惡人，也為禍患的日子所造。
The LORD hath made all things for himself: yea, even the wicked for the day of evil.

16:5    凡心裡驕傲的，為耶和華所憎惡。雖然連手，他必不免受罰。
Every one that is proud in heart is an abomination to the LORD: though hand join in hand, he shall not be unpunished.

16:6    因憐憫誠實，罪孽得贖。敬畏耶和華的，遠離惡事。
By mercy and truth iniquity is purged: and by the fear of the LORD men depart from evil.

16:7    人所行的若蒙耶和華喜悅，耶和華也使他的仇敵與他和好。
When a man's ways please the LORD, he maketh even his enemies to be at peace with him.

16:8    多有財利，行事不義，不如少有財利，行事公義。
Better is a little with righteousness than great revenues without right.

16:9    人心籌算自己的道路。惟耶和華指引他的腳步。
A man's heart deviseth his way: but the LORD directeth his steps.

16:10    王的嘴中有神語。審判之時，他的口，必不差錯。
A divine sentence is in the lips of the king: his mouth transgresseth not in judgment.

16:11    公道的天平和秤，都屬耶和華。囊中一切法碼，都為他所定。
A just weight and balance are the LORD's: all the weights of the bag are his work.

16:12    作惡為王所憎惡。因國位是靠公義堅立。
It is an abomination to kings to commit wickedness: for the throne is established by righteousness.

16:13    公義的嘴，為王所喜悅。說正直話的，為王所喜愛。
Righteous lips are the delight of kings; and they love him that speaketh right.

16:14    王的震怒，如殺人的使者。但智慧人能止息王怒。
The wrath of a king is as messengers of death: but a wise man will pacify it.



16:15    王的臉光，使人有生命。王的恩典，好像春雲時雨。
In the light of the king's countenance is life; and his favour is as a cloud of the latter rain.

16:16    得智慧勝似得金子。選聰明強如選銀子。
How much better is it to get wisdom than gold! and to get understanding rather to be chosen than silver!

16:17    正直人的道，是遠離惡事。謹守己路的，是保全性命。
The highway of the upright is to depart from evil: he that keepeth his way preserveth his soul.

16:18    驕傲在敗壞以先，狂心在跌倒之前。
Pride goeth before destruction, and an haughty spirit before a fall.



16:19    心裡謙卑與窮乏人來往，強如將擄物與驕傲人同分。
Better it is to be of an humble spirit with the lowly, than to divide the spoil with the proud.

16:20    謹守訓言的，必得好處。依靠耶和華的，便為有福。
He that handleth a matter wisely shall find good: and whoso trusteth in the LORD, happy is he.

16:21    心中有智慧，必稱為通達人。嘴中的甜言，加增人的學問。
The wise in heart shall be called prudent: and the sweetness of the lips increaseth learning.

16:22    人有智慧就有生命的泉源。愚昧人必被愚昧懲治。
Understanding is a wellspring of life unto him that hath it: but the instruction of fools is folly.

16:23    智慧人的心，教訓他的口，又使他的嘴，增長學問。
The heart of the wise teacheth his mouth, and addeth learning to his lips.

16:24    良言如同蜂房，使心覺甘甜，使骨得醫治。
Pleasant words are as an honeycomb, sweet to the soul, and health to the bones.

16:25    有一條路，人以為正，至終成為死亡之路。
There is a way that seemeth right unto a man, but the end thereof are the ways of death.

16:26    勞力人的胃口，使他勞力，因為他的口腹催逼他。
He that laboureth laboureth for himself; for his mouth craveth it of him.

16:27    匪徒圖謀奸惡，嘴上彷佛有燒焦的火。
An ungodly man diggeth up evil: and in his lips there is as a burning fire.

16:28    乖僻人播散分爭。傳舌的離間密友。
A froward man soweth strife: and a whisperer separateth chief friends.

16:29    強暴人誘惑鄰舍，領他走不善之道。
A violent man enticeth his neighbour, and leadeth him into the way that is not good.

16:30    眼目緊合的，圖謀乖僻，嘴脣緊閉的，成就邪惡。
He shutteth his eyes to devise froward things: moving his lips he bringeth evil to pass.

16:31    白髮是榮耀的冠冕。在公義的道上，必能得著。
The hoary head is a crown of glory, if it be found in the way of righteousness.

16:32    不輕易發怒的，勝過勇士。治服己心的，強如取城。
He that is slow to anger is better than the mighty; and he that ruleth his spirit than he that taketh a city.

16:33    籤放在懷裡。定事由耶和華。
The lot is cast into the lap; but the whole disposing thereof is of the LORD.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


17:1    設筵滿屋，大家相爭，不如有塊乾餅，大家相安。
Better is a dry morsel, and quietness therewith, than an house full of sacrifices with strife.

17:2    僕人辦事聰明，必管轄貽羞之子，又在眾子中，同分產業。
A wise servant shall have rule over a son that causeth shame, and shall have part of the inheritance among the brethren.

17:3    鼎為煉銀，爐為鍊金。惟有耶和華熬煉人心。
The fining pot is for silver, and the furnace for gold: but the LORD trieth the hearts.

17:4    行惡的留心聽奸詐之言。說謊的側耳聽邪惡之語。
A wicked doer giveth heed to false lips; and a liar giveth ear to a naughty tongue.

17:5    戲笑窮人的，是辱沒造他的主。幸災樂禍的，必不免受罰。
Whoso mocketh the poor reproacheth his Maker: and he that is glad at calamities shall not be unpunished.

17:6    子孫為老人的冠冕。父親是兒女的榮耀。
Children's children are the crown of old men; and the glory of children are their fathers.

17:7    愚頑人說美言本不相宜，何況君王說謊話呢。
Excellent speech becometh not a fool: much less do lying lips a prince.

17:8    賄賂在饋送人的眼中，看為寶玉。隨處運動，都得順利。
A gift is as a precious stone in the eyes of him that hath it: whithersoever it turneth, it prospereth.

17:9    遮掩人過的，尋求人愛。屢次挑錯的，離間密友。
He that covereth a transgression seeketh love; but he that repeateth a matter separateth very friends.



17:10    一句責備話，深入聰明人的心，強如責打愚昧人一百下。
A reproof entereth more into a wise man than an hundred stripes into a fool.

17:11    惡人只尋背叛，所以必有嚴厲的使者，奉差攻擊他。
An evil man seeketh only rebellion: therefore a cruel messenger shall be sent against him.

17:12    寧可遇見丟崽子的母熊，不可遇見正行愚妄的愚昧人。
Let a bear robbed of her whelps meet a man, rather than a fool in his folly.

17:13    以惡報善的，禍患必不離他的家。
Whoso rewardeth evil for good, evil shall not depart from his house.

17:14    分爭的起頭，如水放開。所以在爭鬧之先，必當止息爭競。
The beginning of strife is as when one letteth out water: therefore leave off contention, before it be meddled with.

17:15    定惡人為義的，定義人為惡的，這都為耶和華所憎惡。
He that justifieth the wicked, and he that condemneth the just, even they both are abomination to the LORD.

17:16    愚昧人既無聰明，為何手拿價銀買智慧呢。
Wherefore is there a price in the hand of a fool to get wisdom, seeing he hath no heart to it?

17:17    朋友乃時常親愛。弟兄為患難而生。
A friend loveth at all times, and a brother is born for adversity.

17:18    在鄰舍面前擊掌作保，乃是無知的人。
A man void of understanding striketh hands, and becometh surety in the presence of his friend.

17:19    喜愛爭競的，是喜愛過犯。高立家門的，乃自取敗壞。
He loveth transgression that loveth strife: and he that exalteth his gate seeketh destruction.

17:20    心存邪僻的，尋不著好處。舌弄是非的，陷在禍患中。
He that hath a froward heart findeth no good: and he that hath a perverse tongue falleth into mischief.

17:21    生愚昧子的，必自愁苦。愚頑人的父，毫無喜樂。
He that begetteth a fool doeth it to his sorrow: and the father of a fool hath no joy.

17:22    喜樂的心，乃是良藥。憂傷的靈，使骨枯乾。
A merry heart doeth good like a medicine: but a broken spirit drieth the bones.

17:23    惡人暗中受賄賂，為要傾倒判斷。
A wicked man taketh a gift out of the bosom to pervert the ways of judgment.

17:24    明哲人眼前有智慧。愚昧人眼望地極。
Wisdom is before him that hath understanding; but the eyes of a fool are in the ends of the earth.

17:25    愚昧子使父親愁煩，使母親憂苦。
A foolish son is a grief to his father, and bitterness to her that bare him.

17:26    判罰義人為不善。責打君子為不義。
Also to punish the just is not good, nor to strike princes for equity.

17:27    寡少言語的有知識。性情溫良的有聰明。
He that hath knowledge spareth his words: and a man of understanding is of an excellent spirit.

17:28    愚昧人若靜默不言，也可算為智慧。閉口不說，也可算為聰明。
Even a fool, when he holdeth his peace, is counted wise: and he that shutteth his lips is esteemed a man of understanding.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


18:1    與眾寡合的，獨自尋求心願，並惱恨一切真智慧。
Through desire a man, having separated himself, seeketh and intermeddleth with all wisdom.

18:2    愚昧人不喜愛明哲，只喜愛顯露心意。
A fool hath no delight in understanding, but that his heart may discover itself.

18:3    惡人來，藐視隨來。羞恥到，辱罵同到。
When the wicked cometh, then cometh also contempt, and with ignominy reproach.

18:4    人口中的言語，如同深水。智慧的泉源，好像湧流的河水。
The words of a man's mouth are as deep waters, and the wellspring of wisdom as a flowing brook.

18:5    瞻徇惡人的情面，偏斷義人的案件，都為不善。
It is not good to accept the person of the wicked, to overthrow the righteous in judgment.

18:6    愚昧人張嘴啟爭端，開口招鞭打。
A fool's lips enter into contention, and his mouth calleth for strokes.

18:7    愚昧人的口，自取敗壞。他的嘴，是他生命的網羅。
A fool's mouth is his destruction, and his lips are the snare of his soul.

18:8    傳舌人的言語，如同美食，深入人的心腹。
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.

18:9    作工懈怠的，與浪費人為弟兄。
He also that is slothful in his work is brother to him that is a great waster.

18:10    耶和華的名，是堅固臺。義人奔入，便得安穩。
The name of the LORD is a strong tower: the righteous runneth into it, and is safe.

18:11    富足人的財物，是他的堅城，在他心想，猶如高牆。
The rich man's wealth is his strong city, and as an high wall in his own conceit.

18:12    敗壞之先，人心驕傲。尊榮以前，必有謙卑。
Before destruction the heart of man is haughty, and before honour is humility.

18:13    未曾聽完先回答的，便是他的愚昧，和羞辱。
He that answereth a matter before he heareth it, it is folly and shame unto him.

18:14    人有疾病，心能忍耐。心靈憂傷，誰能承當呢。
The spirit of a man will sustain his infirmity; but a wounded spirit who can bear?

18:15    聰明人的心得知識。智慧人的耳求知識。
The heart of the prudent getteth knowledge; and the ear of the wise seeketh knowledge.

18:16    人的禮物，為他開路，引他到高位的人面前。
A man's gift maketh room for him, and bringeth him before great men.

18:17    先訴情由的，似乎有理。但鄰舍來到，就察出實情。
He that is first in his own cause seemeth just; but his neighbour cometh and searcheth him.

18:18    掣籤能止息爭競，也能解散強勝的人。
The lot causeth contentions to cease, and parteth between the mighty.

18:19    弟兄結怨，勸他和好，比取堅固城還難。這樣的爭競，如同堅寨的門閂。
A brother offended is harder to be won than a strong city: and their contentions are like the bars of a castle.

18:20    人口中所結的果子，必充滿肚腹。他嘴所出的，必使他飽足。
A man's belly shall be satisfied with the fruit of his mouth; and with the increase of his lips shall he be filled.

18:21    生死在舌頭的權下。喜愛他的，必吃他所結的果子。
Death and life are in the power of the tongue: and they that love it shall eat the fruit thereof.

18:22    得著賢妻的，是得著好處，也是蒙了耶和華的恩惠。
Whoso findeth a wife findeth a good thing, and obtaineth favour of the LORD.

18:23    貧窮人說哀求的話。富足人用威嚇的話回答。
The poor useth intreaties; but the rich answereth roughly.

18:24    濫交朋友的，自取敗壞。但有一朋友，比弟兄更親密。
A man that hath friends must shew himself friendly: and there is a friend that sticketh closer than a brother.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


19:1    行為純正的貧窮人，勝過乖謬愚妄的富足人。
Better is the poor that walketh in his integrity, than he that is perverse in his lips, and is a fool.

19:2    心無知識的，乃為不善。腳步急快的難免犯罪。
Also, that the soul be without knowledge, it is not good; and he that hasteth with his feet sinneth.

19:3    人的愚昧，傾敗他的道。他的心也抱怨耶和華。
The foolishness of man perverteth his way: and his heart fretteth against the LORD.

19:4    財物使朋友增多。但窮人朋友遠離。
Wealth maketh many friends; but the poor is separated from his neighbour.

19:5    作假見證的，必不免受罰。吐出謊言的，終不能逃脫。
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall not escape.

19:6    好施散的，有多人求他的恩情。愛送禮的，人都為他的朋友。
Many will intreat the favour of the prince: and every man is a friend to him that giveth gifts.

19:7    貧窮人弟兄都恨他，何況他的朋友，更遠離他。他用言語追隨，他們卻走了。
All the brethren of the poor do hate him: how much more do his friends go far from him? he pursueth them with words, yet they are wanting to him.

19:8    得著智慧的，愛惜生命，保守聰明的，必得好處。
He that getteth wisdom loveth his own soul: he that keepeth understanding shall find good.

19:9    作假見證的，不免受罰。吐出謊言的，也必滅亡。
A false witness shall not be unpunished, and he that speaketh lies shall perish.

19:10    愚昧人宴樂度日，是不合宜的，何況僕人管轄王子呢。
Delight is not seemly for a fool; much less for a servant to have rule over princes.

19:11    人有見識，就不輕易發怒。寬恕人的過失，便是自己的榮耀。
The discretion of a man deferreth his anger; and it is his glory to pass over a transgression.

19:12    王的忿怒，好像獅子吼叫。他的恩典，卻如草上的甘露。
The king's wrath is as the roaring of a lion; but his favour is as dew upon the grass.

19:13    愚昧的兒子，是父親的禍患。妻子的爭吵，如雨連連滴漏。
A foolish son is the calamity of his father: and the contentions of a wife are a continual dropping.

19:14    房屋錢財。是祖宗所遺留的。惟有賢慧的妻，是耶和華所賜的。
House and riches are the inheritance of fathers: and a prudent wife is from the LORD.

19:15    懶惰使人沉睡。懈怠的人，必受飢餓。
Slothfulness casteth into a deep sleep; and an idle soul shall suffer hunger.

19:16    謹守誡命的，保全生命。輕忽己路的，必致死亡。
He that keepeth the commandment keepeth his own soul; but he that despiseth his ways shall die.

19:17    憐憫貧窮的，就是借給耶和華。他的善行，耶和華必償還。
He that hath pity upon the poor lendeth unto the LORD; and that which he hath given will he pay him again.

19:18    趁有指望，管教你的兒子。你的心不可任他死亡。
Chasten thy son while there is hope, and let not thy soul spare for his crying.

19:19    暴怒的人，必受刑罰。你若救他，必須再救。
A man of great wrath shall suffer punishment: for if thou deliver him, yet thou must do it again.

19:20    你要聽勸教，受訓誨，使你終久有智慧。
Hear counsel, and receive instruction, that thou mayest be wise in thy latter end.

19:21    人心多有計謀。惟有耶和華的籌算，才能立定。
There are many devices in a man's heart; nevertheless the counsel of the LORD, that shall stand.

19:22    施行仁慈的，令人愛慕。窮人強如說謊言的。
The desire of a man is his kindness: and a poor man is better than a liar.

19:23    敬畏耶和華的，得著生命。他必恆久知足，不遭禍患。
The fear of the LORD tendeth to life: and he that hath it shall abide satisfied; he shall not be visited with evil.

19:24    懶惰人放手在盤子裡。就是向口撤回，他也不肯。
A slothful man hideth his hand in his bosom, and will not so much as bring it to his mouth again.

19:25    鞭打褻慢人，愚蒙人必長見識。責備明哲人，他就明白知識。
Smite a scorner, and the simple will beware: and reprove one that hath understanding, and he will understand knowledge.

19:26    虐待父親，攆出母親的，是貽羞致辱之子。
He that wasteth his father, and chaseth away his mother, is a son that causeth shame, and bringeth reproach.

19:27    我兒，不可聽了教訓，而又偏離知識的言語。
Cease, my son, to hear the instruction that causeth to err from the words of knowledge.

19:28    匪徒作見證戲笑公平。惡人的口吞下罪孽。
An ungodly witness scorneth judgment: and the mouth of the wicked devoureth iniquity.

19:29    刑罰是為褻慢人豫備的。鞭打是為愚昧人的背豫備的。
Judgments are prepared for scorners, and stripes for the back of fools.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


20:1    酒能使人褻慢，濃酒使人喧囔。凡因酒錯誤的，就無智慧。
Wine is a mocker, strong drink is raging: and whosoever is deceived thereby is not wise.

20:2    王的威嚇，如同獅子吼叫。惹動他怒的，是自害己命。
The fear of a king is as the roaring of a lion: whoso provoketh him to anger sinneth against his own soul.

20:3    遠離分爭，是人的尊榮。愚妄人都愛爭鬧。
It is an honour for a man to cease from strife: but every fool will be meddling.

20:4    懶惰人因冬寒不肯耕種。到收割的時候，他必討飯，而無所得。
The sluggard will not plow by reason of the cold; therefore shall he beg in harvest, and have nothing.

20:5    人心懷藏謀略，好像深水。惟明哲人，才能汲引出來。
Counsel in the heart of man is like deep water; but a man of understanding will draw it out.

20:6    人多述說自己的仁慈。但忠信人誰能遇著呢。
Most men will proclaim every one his own goodness: but a faithful man who can find?

20:7    行為純正的義人，他的子孫，是有福的。
The just man walketh in his integrity: his children are blessed after him.

20:8    王坐在審判的位上，以眼目驅散諸惡。
A king that sitteth in the throne of judgment scattereth away all evil with his eyes.

20:9    誰能說，我潔淨了我的心。我脫淨了我的罪。
Who can say, I have made my heart clean, I am pure from my sin?

20:10    兩樣的法碼，兩樣的升斗，都為耶和華所憎惡。
Divers weights, and divers measures, both of them are alike abomination to the LORD.

20:11    孩童的動作，是清潔，是正直，都顯明他的本性。
Even a child is known by his doings, whether his work be pure, and whether it be right.

20:12    能聽的耳，能看的眼，都是耶和華所造的。
The hearing ear, and the seeing eye, the LORD hath made even both of them.

20:13    不要貪睡，免致貧窮。眼要睜開，你就吃飽。
Love not sleep, lest thou come to poverty; open thine eyes, and thou shalt be satisfied with bread.

20:14    買物的說，不好，不好。及至買去，他便自誇。
It is naught, it is naught, saith the buyer: but when he is gone his way, then he boasteth.

20:15    有金子，和許多珍珠。（或作紅寶石）惟有知識的嘴，乃為貴重的珍寶。
There is gold, and a multitude of rubies: but the lips of knowledge are a precious jewel.

20:16    誰為生人作保，就拿誰的衣服。誰為外人作保，誰就要承當。
Take his garment that is surety for a stranger: and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.

20:17    以虛謊而得的食物，人覺甘甜。但後來他的口，必充滿塵沙。
Bread of deceit is sweet to a man; but afterwards his mouth shall be filled with gravel.

20:18    計謀都憑籌算立定。打仗要憑智謀。
Every purpose is established by counsel: and with good advice make war.

20:19    往來傳舌的，洩漏密事。大張嘴的不可與他結交。
He that goeth about as a talebearer revealeth secrets: therefore meddle not with him that flattereth with his lips.

20:20    咒罵父母的，他的燈必滅，變為漆黑的黑暗。
Whoso curseth his father or his mother, his lamp shall be put out in obscure darkness.

20:21    起初速得的產業，終久卻不為福。
An inheritance may be gotten hastily at the beginning; but the end thereof shall not be blessed.

20:22    你不要說，我要以惡報惡。要等候耶和華，他必拯救你。
Say not thou, I will recompense evil; but wait on the LORD, and he shall save thee.



20:23    兩樣的法碼，為耶和華所憎惡。詭詐的天平，也為不善。
Divers weights are an abomination unto the LORD; and a false balance is not good.

20:24    人的腳步，為耶和華所定。人豈能明白自己的路呢。
Man's goings are of the LORD; how can a man then understand his own way?

20:25    人冒失說，這是聖物，許願之後才查問，就是自陷網羅。
It is a snare to the man who devoureth that which is holy, and after vows to make enquiry.

20:26    智慧的王，簸散惡人，用碌碡輥軋他們。
A wise king scattereth the wicked, and bringeth the wheel over them.

20:27    人的靈是耶和華的燈，鑑察人的心腹。
The spirit of man is the candle of the LORD, searching all the inward parts of the belly.

20:28    王因仁慈和誠實，得以保全他的國位，也因仁慈立穩。
Mercy and truth preserve the king: and his throne is upholden by mercy.

20:29    強壯乃少年的榮耀。白髮為老年人的尊榮。
The glory of young men is their strength: and the beauty of old men is the grey head.

20:30    鞭傷除淨人的罪惡。責打能入人的心腹。
The blueness of a wound cleanseth away evil: so do stripes the inward parts of the belly.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


21:1    王的心在耶和華手中，好像隴溝的水，隨意流轉。
The king's heart is in the hand of the LORD, as the rivers of water: he turneth it whithersoever he will.

21:2    人所行的，在自己的眼中都看為正，惟有耶和華衡量人心。
Every way of a man is right in his own eyes: but the LORD pondereth the hearts.

21:3    行仁義公平，比獻祭更蒙耶和華悅納。
To do justice and judgment is more acceptable to the LORD than sacrifice.

21:4    惡人發達，眼高心傲，這乃是罪。（發達原文是燈）
An high look, and a proud heart, and the plowing of the wicked, is sin.

21:5    殷勤籌畫的，足致豐裕。行事急躁的，都必缺乏。
The thoughts of the diligent tend only to plenteousness; but of every one that is hasty only to want.

21:6    用詭詐之舌求財的，就是自己取死。所得之財，乃是吹來吹去的浮雲。
The getting of treasures by a lying tongue is a vanity tossed to and fro of them that seek death.

21:7    惡人的強暴，必將自己掃除。因他們不肯按公平行事。
The robbery of the wicked shall destroy them; because they refuse to do judgment.

21:8    負罪之人的路，甚是彎曲。至於清潔的人，他所行的乃是正直。
The way of man is froward and strange: but as for the pure, his work is right.

21:9    寧可住在房頂的角上，不在寬闊的房屋，與爭吵的婦人同住。
It is better to dwell in a corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman in a wide house.

21:10    惡人的心，樂人受禍。他眼並不憐恤鄰舍。
The soul of the wicked desireth evil: his neighbour findeth no favour in his eyes.

21:11    褻慢的人受刑罰，愚蒙的人就得智慧。智慧人受訓誨，便得知識。
When the scorner is punished, the simple is made wise: and when the wise is instructed, he receiveth knowledge.

21:12    義人思想惡人的家，知道惡人傾倒，必至滅亡。
The righteous man wisely considereth the house of the wicked: but God overthroweth the wicked for their wickedness.

21:13    塞耳不聽窮人哀求的，他將來呼籲也不蒙應允。
Whoso stoppeth his ears at the cry of the poor, he also shall cry himself, but shall not be heard.

21:14    暗中送的禮物，挽回怒氣。懷中搋的賄賂，止息暴怒。
A gift in secret pacifieth anger: and a reward in the bosom strong wrath.

21:15    秉公行義，使義人喜樂，使作孽的人敗壞。
It is joy to the just to do judgment: but destruction shall be to the workers of iniquity.

21:16    迷離通達道路的，必住在陰魂的會中。
The man that wandereth out of the way of understanding shall remain in the congregation of the dead.

21:17    愛宴樂的，必致窮乏。好酒愛膏油的，必不富足。
He that loveth pleasure shall be a poor man: he that loveth wine and oil shall not be rich.

21:18    惡人作了義人的贖價。奸詐人代替正直人。
The wicked shall be a ransom for the righteous, and the transgressor for the upright.

21:19    寧可住在曠野，不與爭吵使氣的婦人同住。
It is better to dwell in the wilderness, than with a contentious and an angry woman.

21:20    智慧人家中積蓄寶物膏油。愚昧人隨得來隨吞下。
There is treasure to be desired and oil in the dwelling of the wise; but a foolish man spendeth it up.

21:21    追求公義仁慈的，就尋得生命，公義，和尊榮。
He that followeth after righteousness and mercy findeth life, righteousness, and honour.

21:22    智慧人爬上勇士的城牆，傾覆他所倚靠的堅壘。
A wise man scaleth the city of the mighty, and casteth down the strength of the confidence thereof.

21:23    謹守口與舌的，就保守自己免受災難。
Whoso keepeth his mouth and his tongue keepeth his soul from troubles.

21:24    心驕氣傲的人，名叫褻慢。他行事狂妄，都出於驕傲。
Proud and haughty scorner is his name, who dealeth in proud wrath.

21:25    懶惰人的心願，將他殺害，因為他手不肯作工。
The desire of the slothful killeth him; for his hands refuse to labour.

21:26    有終日貪得無厭的，義人施捨而不吝惜。
He coveteth greedily all the day long: but the righteous giveth and spareth not.

21:27    惡人的祭物是可憎的，何況他存惡意來獻呢。
The sacrifice of the wicked is abomination: how much more, when he bringeth it with a wicked mind?

21:28    作假見證的必滅亡，惟有聽真情而言的，其言長存。
A false witness shall perish: but the man that heareth speaketh constantly.

21:29    惡人臉無羞恥，正直人行事堅定。
A wicked man hardeneth his face: but as for the upright, he directeth his way.

21:30    沒有人能以智慧，聰明，謀略，敵擋耶和華。
There is no wisdom nor understanding nor counsel against the LORD.

21:31    馬是為打仗之日豫備的。得勝乃在乎耶和華。
The horse is prepared against the day of battle: but safety is of the LORD.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


22:1    美名勝過大財，恩寵強如金銀。
A GOOD name is rather to be chosen than great riches, and loving favour rather than silver and gold.

22:2    富戶窮人，在世相遇，都為耶和華所造。
The rich and poor meet together: the LORD is the maker of them all.

22:3    通達人見禍藏躲。愚蒙人前往受害。
A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself: but the simple pass on, and are punished.

22:4    敬畏耶和華心存謙卑，就得富有，尊榮，生命，為賞賜。
By humility and the fear of the LORD are riches, and honour, and life.

22:5    乖僻人的路上，有荊棘和網羅。保守自己生命的。必要遠離。
Thorns and snares are in the way of the froward: he that doth keep his soul shall be far from them.

22:6    教養孩童，使他走當行的道，就是到老他也不偏離。
Train up a child in the way he should go: and when he is old, he will not depart from it.



22:7    富戶管轄窮人，欠債的是債主的僕人。
The rich ruleth over the poor, and the borrower is servant to the lender.

22:8    撒罪孽的，必收災禍。他逞怒的杖，也必廢掉。
He that soweth iniquity shall reap vanity: and the rod of his anger shall fail.

22:9    眼目慈善的，就必蒙福。因他將食物分給窮人。
He that hath a bountiful eye shall be blessed; for he giveth of his bread to the poor.

22:10    趕出褻慢人，爭端就消除，分爭和羞辱，也必止息。
Cast out the scorner, and contention shall go out; yea, strife and reproach shall cease.

22:11    喜愛清心的人，因他嘴上的恩言，王必與他為友。
He that loveth pureness of heart, for the grace of his lips the king shall be his friend.

22:12    耶和華的眼目，眷顧聰明人。卻傾敗奸詐人的言語。
The eyes of the LORD preserve knowledge, and he overthroweth the words of the transgressor.

22:13    懶惰人說，外頭有獅子，我在街上，就必被殺。
The slothful man saith, There is a lion without, I shall be slain in the streets.

22:14    淫婦的口為深坑，耶和華所憎惡的，必陷在其中。
The mouth of strange women is a deep pit: he that is abhorred of the LORD shall fall therein.

22:15    愚蒙迷住孩童的心，用管教的杖可以遠遠趕除。
Foolishness is bound in the heart of a child; but the rod of correction shall drive it far from him.

22:16    欺壓貧窮為要利己的，並送禮與富戶的，都必缺乏。
He that oppresseth the poor to increase his riches, and he that giveth to the rich, shall surely come to want.

22:17    你須側耳聽受智慧人的言語，留心領會我的知識，
Bow down thine ear, and hear the words of the wise, and apply thine heart unto my knowledge.

22:18    你若心中存記，嘴上咬定，這便為美。
For it is a pleasant thing if thou keep them within thee; they shall withal be fitted in thy lips.

22:19    我今日以此特特指教你，為要使你倚靠耶和華。
That thy trust may be in the LORD, I have made known to thee this day, even to thee.

22:20    謀略和知識的美事，我豈沒有寫給你嗎。
Have not I written to thee excellent things in counsels and knowledge,

22:21    要使你知道真言的實理，你好將真言回覆那打發你來的人。
That I might make thee know the certainty of the words of truth; that thou mightest answer the words of truth to them that send unto thee?

22:22    貧窮人，你不可因他貧窮，就搶奪他的物。也不可在城門口欺壓困苦人。
Rob not the poor, because he is poor: neither oppress the afflicted in the gate:

22:23    因耶和華必為他辨屈。搶奪他的，耶和華必奪取那人的命。
For the LORD will plead their cause, and spoil the soul of those that spoiled them.

22:24    好生氣的人，不可與他結交。暴怒的人，不可與他來往。
Make no friendship with an angry man; and with a furious man thou shalt not go:

22:25    恐怕你效法他的行為，自己就陷在網羅裡。
Lest thou learn his ways, and get a snare to thy soul.

22:26    不要與人擊掌，不要為欠債的作保。
Be not thou one of them that strike hands, or of them that are sureties for debts.

22:27    你若沒有什麼償還，何必使人奪去你睡臥的床呢。
If thou hast nothing to pay, why should he take away thy bed from under thee?

22:28    你先祖所立的地界，你不可挪移。
Remove not the ancient landmark, which thy fathers have set.

22:29    你看見辦事殷勤的人嗎，他必站在君王面前，必不站在下賤人面前。
Seest thou a man diligent in his business? he shall stand before kings; he shall not stand before mean men.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


23:1    你若與官長坐席，要留意在你面前的是誰。
When thou sittest to eat with a ruler, consider diligently what is before thee:

23:2    你若是貪食的，就當拿刀放在喉嚨上。
And put a knife to thy throat, if thou be a man given to appetite.

23:3    不可貪戀他的美食，因為是哄人的食物。
Be not desirous of his dainties: for they are deceitful meat.

23:4    不要勞碌求富。休仗自己的聰明。
Labour not to be rich: cease from thine own wisdom.

23:5    你豈要定睛在虛無的錢財上嗎。因錢財必長翅膀，如鷹向天飛去。
Wilt thou set thine eyes upon that which is not? for riches certainly make themselves wings; they fly away as an eagle toward heaven.

23:6    不要吃惡眼人的飯。也不要貪他的美味。
Eat thou not the bread of him that hath an evil eye, neither desire thou his dainty meats:

23:7    因為他心怎樣思量，他為人就是怎樣。他雖對你說，請吃，請喝。他的心卻與你向背。
For as he thinketh in his heart, so is he: Eat and drink, saith he to thee; but his heart is not with thee.

23:8    你所吃的那點食物，必吐出來。你所說的甘美言語，也必落空。
The morsel which thou hast eaten shalt thou vomit up, and lose thy sweet words.

23:9    你不要說話給愚昧人聽。因他必藐視你智慧的言語。
Speak not in the ears of a fool: for he will despise the wisdom of thy words.

23:10    不可挪移古時的地界。也不可侵入孤兒的田地。
Remove not the old landmark; and enter not into the fields of the fatherless:

23:11    因為他們的救贖主，大有能力。他必向你為他們辨屈。
For their redeemer is mighty; he shall plead their cause with thee.

23:12    你要留心領受訓誨。側耳聽從知識的言語。
Apply thine heart unto instruction, and thine ears to the words of knowledge.

23:13    不可不管教孩童，你用杖打他，他必不至於死。
Withhold not correction from the child: for if thou beatest him with the rod, he shall not die.

23:14    你要用杖打他，就可以救他的靈魂免下陰間。
Thou shalt beat him with the rod, and shalt deliver his soul from hell.

23:15    我兒你心若存智慧，我的心也甚歡喜。
My son, if thine heart be wise, my heart shall rejoice, even mine.

23:16    你的嘴若說正直話，我的心腸也必快樂。
Yea, my reins shall rejoice, when thy lips speak right things.

23:17    你心中不要嫉妒罪人。只要終日敬畏耶和華。
Let not thine heart envy sinners: but be thou in the fear of the LORD all the day long.

23:18    因為至終必有善報。你的指望也不至斷絕。
For surely there is an end; and thine expectation shall not be cut off.

23:19    我兒，你當聽，當存智慧，好在正道上引導你的心。
Hear thou, my son, and be wise, and guide thine heart in the way.

23:20    好飲酒的，好吃肉的，不要與他們來往。
Be not among winebibbers; among riotous eaters of flesh:

23:21    因為好酒貪食的，必至貧窮。好睡覺的，必穿破爛衣服。
For the drunkard and the glutton shall come to poverty: and drowsiness shall clothe a man with rags.

23:22    你要聽從生你的父親。你母親老了，也不可藐視他。
Hearken unto thy father that begat thee, and despise not thy mother when she is old.

23:23    你當買真理。就是智慧，訓誨，和聰明，也都不可賣。
Buy the truth, and sell it not; also wisdom, and instruction, and understanding.

23:24    義人的父親，必大得快樂。人生智慧的兒子，必因他歡喜。
The father of the righteous shall greatly rejoice: and he that begetteth a wise child shall have joy of him.

23:25    你要使父母歡喜。使生你的快樂。
Thy father and thy mother shall be glad, and she that bare thee shall rejoice.

23:26    我兒，要將你的心歸我。你的眼目，也要喜悅我的道路。
My son, give me thine heart, and let thine eyes observe my ways.

23:27    妓女是深坑。外女是窄阱。
For a whore is a deep ditch; and a strange woman is a narrow pit.

23:28    他埋伏好像強盜，他使人中多有奸詐的。
She also lieth in wait as for a prey, and increaseth the transgressors among men.

23:29    誰有禍患，誰有憂愁，誰有爭鬥，誰有哀嘆，（或作怨言）誰無故受傷，誰眼目紅赤。
Who hath woe? who hath sorrow? who hath contentions? who hath babbling? who hath wounds without cause? who hath redness of eyes?

23:30    就是那流連飲酒，常去尋梢調和酒的人。
They that tarry long at the wine; they that go to seek mixed wine.

23:31    酒發紅，在杯中閃爍，你不可觀看，雖然下嚥舒暢，終久是咬你如蛇，刺你如毒蛇。
Look not thou upon the wine when it is red, when it giveth his colour in the cup, when it moveth itself aright.

23:32    *
At the last it biteth like a serpent, and stingeth like an adder.

23:33    你眼必看見異怪的事。（異怪的事或作淫婦）你心必發出乖謬的話。
Thine eyes shall behold strange women, and thine heart shall utter perverse things.

23:34    你必像躺在海中，或像臥在桅杆上。
Yea, thou shalt be as he that lieth down in the midst of the sea, or as he that lieth upon the top of a mast.

23:35    你必說，人打我，我卻未受傷，人鞭打我，我竟不覺得，我幾時清醒，我仍去尋酒。
They have stricken me, shalt thou say, and I was not sick; they have beaten me, and I felt it not: when shall I awake? I will seek it yet again.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


24:1    你不要嫉妒惡人，也不要起意與他們相處。
Be not thou envious against evil men, neither desire to be with them.

24:2    因為他們的心，圖謀強暴。他們的口談論奸惡。
For their heart studieth destruction, and their lips talk of mischief.

24:3    房屋因智慧建造，又因聰明立穩。
Through wisdom is an house builded; and by understanding it is established:

24:4    其中因知識充滿各樣美好寶貴的財物。
And by knowledge shall the chambers be filled with all precious and pleasant riches.

24:5    智慧人大有能力。有知識的人，力上加力。
A wise man is strong; yea, a man of knowledge increaseth strength.

24:6    你去打仗，要憑智謀。謀士眾多，人便得勝。
For by wise counsel thou shalt make thy war: and in multitude of counsellors there is safety.

24:7    智慧極高，非愚昧人所能及，所以在城門內，不敢開口。
Wisdom is too high for a fool: he openeth not his mouth in the gate.

24:8    設計作惡的，必稱為奸人。
He that deviseth to do evil shall be called a mischievous person.

24:9    愚妄人的思念，乃是罪惡。褻慢者為人所憎惡。
The thought of foolishness is sin: and the scorner is an abomination to men.

24:10    你在患難之日若膽怯，你的力量就微小。
If thou faint in the day of adversity, thy strength is small.

24:11    人被拉到死地，你要解救。人將被殺，你須攔阻。
If thou forbear to deliver them that are drawn unto death, and those that are ready to be slain;

24:12    你若說，這事我未曾知道。那衡量人心的，豈不明白嗎。保守你命的，豈不知道嗎。他豈不按各人所行的，報應各人嗎。
If thou sayest, Behold, we knew it not; doth not he that pondereth the heart consider it? and he that keepeth thy soul, doth not he know it? and shall not he render to every man according to his works?

24:13    我兒，你要吃蜜，因為是好的。吃蜂房下滴的蜜，更覺甘甜。
My son, eat thou honey, because it is good; and the honeycomb, which is sweet to thy taste:

24:14    你心得了智慧，也必覺的如此。你若找著，至終必有善報。你的指望，也不至斷絕。
So shall the knowledge of wisdom be unto thy soul: when thou hast found it, then there shall be a reward, and thy expectation shall not be cut off.

24:15    你這惡人，不要埋伏攻擊義人的家。不要毀壞他安居之所。
Lay not wait, O wicked man, against the dwelling of the righteous; spoil not his resting place:

24:16    因為義人雖七次跌倒，仍必興起。惡人卻被禍患傾倒。
For a just man falleth seven times, and riseth up again: but the wicked shall fall into mischief.

24:17    你仇敵跌倒，你不要歡喜。他傾倒，你心不要快樂。
Rejoice not when thine enemy falleth, and let not thine heart be glad when he stumbleth:

24:18    恐怕耶和華看見就不喜悅，將怒氣從仇敵身上轉過來。
Lest the LORD see it, and it displease him, and he turn away his wrath from him.

24:19    不要為作惡的心懷不平。也不要嫉妒惡人。
Fret not thyself because of evil men, neither be thou envious at the wicked;

24:20    因為惡人終不得善報。惡人的燈也必熄滅。
For there shall be no reward to the evil man; the candle of the wicked shall be put out.

24:21    我兒，你要敬畏耶和華與君王。不要與反覆無常的人結交。
My son, fear thou the LORD and the king: and meddle not with them that are given to change:

24:22    因為他們的災難，必忽然而起。耶和華與君王所施行的毀滅，誰能知道呢。
For their calamity shall rise suddenly; and who knoweth the ruin of them both?

24:23    以下也是智慧人的箴言。審判時看人的情面，是不好的。
These things also belong to the wise. It is not good to have respect of persons in judgment.

24:24    對惡人說，你是義人的，這人萬民必咒詛，列邦必憎惡。
He that saith unto the wicked, Thou art righteous; him shall the people curse, nations shall abhor him:

24:25    責備惡人的，必得喜悅。美好的福，也必臨到他。
But to them that rebuke him shall be delight, and a good blessing shall come upon them.

24:26    應對正直的，猶如與人親嘴。
Every man shall kiss his lips that giveth a right answer.

24:27    你要在外頭豫備工料，在田間辦理整齊，然後建造房屋。
Prepare thy work without, and make it fit for thyself in the field; and afterwards build thine house.

24:28    不可無故作見證，陷害鄰舍。也不可用嘴欺騙人。
Be not a witness against thy neighbour without cause; and deceive not with thy lips.

24:29    不可說，人怎樣對待我，我也怎樣待他，我必照他所行的報復他。
Say not, I will do so to him as he hath done to me: I will render to the man according to his work.

24:30    我經過懶惰人的田地，無知人的葡萄園。
I went by the field of the slothful, and by the vineyard of the man void of understanding;

24:31    荊棘長滿了地皮，刺草遮蓋了田面，石牆也坍塌了。
And, lo, it was all grown over with thorns, and nettles had covered the face thereof, and the stone wall thereof was broken down.

24:32    我看見就留心思想，我看著就領了訓誨。
Then I saw, and considered it well: I looked upon it, and received instruction.

24:33    再睡片時，打盹片時，抱著手躺臥片時，
Yet a little sleep, a little slumber, a little folding of the hands to sleep:

24:34    你的貧窮，就必如強盜速來，你的缺乏，彷佛拿兵器的人來到。
So shall thy poverty come as one that travelleth; and thy want as an armed man.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


25:1    以下也是所羅門的箴言。是猶大王希西家的人所謄錄的。
These are also proverbs of Solomon, which the men of Hezekiah king of Judah copied out.

25:2    將事隱祕，乃神的榮耀。將事察清，乃君王的榮耀。
It is the glory of God to conceal a thing: but the honour of kings is to search out a matter.

25:3    天之高，地之厚，君王之心也測不透。
The heaven for height, and the earth for depth, and the heart of kings is unsearchable.

25:4    除去銀子的渣滓，就有銀子出來，銀匠能以作器皿。
Take away the dross from the silver, and there shall come forth a vessel for the finer.

25:5    除去王面前的惡人，國位就靠公義堅立。
Take away the wicked from before the king, and his throne shall be established in righteousness.

25:6    不要在王面前妄自尊大。不要在大人的位上站立。
Put not forth thyself in the presence of the king, and stand not in the place of great men:

25:7    寧可有人說，請你上來，強如在你覲見的王子麵前，叫你退下。
For better it is that it be said unto thee, Come up hither; than that thou shouldest be put lower in the presence of the prince whom thine eyes have seen.

25:8    不要冒失出去與人爭競，免得至終被他羞辱，你就不知道怎樣行了。
Go not forth hastily to strive, lest thou know not what to do in the end thereof, when thy neighbour hath put thee to shame.

25:9    你與鄰舍爭訟，要與他ㄧ人辯論。不可洩漏人的密事。
Debate thy cause with thy neighbour himself; and discover not a secret to another:

25:10    恐怕聽見的人罵你，你的臭名就難以脫離。
Lest he that heareth it put thee to shame, and thine infamy turn not away.

25:11    一句話說得合宜，就如金蘋果在銀網子裡。
A word fitly spoken is like apples of gold in pictures of silver.

25:12    智慧人的勸戒，在順從的人耳中，好像金耳環，和精金的妝飾。
As an earring of gold, and an ornament of fine gold, so is a wise reprover upon an obedient ear.

25:13    忠信的使者，叫差他的人心裡舒暢，就如在收割時，有冰雪的涼氣。
As the cold of snow in the time of harvest, so is a faithful messenger to them that send him: for he refresheth the soul of his masters.

25:14    空誇贈送禮物的，好像無雨的風雲。
Whoso boasteth himself of a false gift is like clouds and wind without rain.

25:15    恆常忍耐，可以勸動君王。柔和的舌頭，能折斷骨頭。
By long forbearing is a prince persuaded, and a soft tongue breaketh the bone.

25:16    你得了蜜嗎，只可吃夠而已。恐怕你過飽就嘔吐出來。
Hast thou found honey? eat so much as is sufficient for thee, lest thou be filled therewith, and vomit it.

25:17    你的腳要少進鄰舍的家，恐怕他厭煩你，恨惡你。
Withdraw thy foot from thy neighbour's house; lest he be weary of thee, and so hate thee.

25:18    作假見證陷害鄰舍的，就是大槌，是利刀，是快箭。
A man that beareth false witness against his neighbour is a maul, and a sword, and a sharp arrow.

25:19    患難時倚靠不忠誠的人，好像破壞的牙，錯骨縫的腳。
Confidence in an unfaithful man in time of trouble is like a broken tooth, and a foot out of joint.

25:20    對傷心的人唱歌，就如冷天脫衣服，又如礆上倒醋。
As he that taketh away a garment in cold weather, and as vinegar upon nitre, so is he that singeth songs to an heavy heart.

25:21    你的仇敵，若餓了就給他飯吃。若渴了就給他水喝。
If thine enemy be hungry, give him bread to eat; and if he be thirsty, give him water to drink:

25:22    因為你這樣行，就是把炭火堆在他的頭上。耶和華也必賞賜你。
For thou shalt heap coals of fire upon his head, and the LORD shall reward thee.

25:23    北風生雨，讒謗人的舌頭也生怒容。
The north wind driveth away rain: so doth an angry countenance a backbiting tongue.

25:24    寧可住在房頂的角上，不在寬闊的房屋與爭吵的婦人同住。
It is better to dwell in the corner of the housetop, than with a brawling woman and in a wide house.

25:25    有好訊息從遠方來，就如拿涼水給口渴的人喝。
As cold waters to a thirsty soul, so is good news from a far country.

25:26    義人在惡人面前退縮，好像Y1渾之泉，弄濁之井。
A righteous man falling down before the wicked is as a troubled fountain, and a corrupt spring.

25:27    吃蜜過多，是不好的。考究自己的榮耀，也是可厭的。
It is not good to eat much honey: so for men to search their own glory is not glory.

25:28    人不制服自己的心，好像毀壞的城邑，沒有牆垣。
He that hath no rule over his own spirit is like a city that is broken down, and without walls.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


26:1    夏天落雪，收割時下雨，都不相宜。愚昧人得尊榮，也是如此。
As snow in summer, and as rain in harvest, so honour is not seemly for a fool.

26:2    麻雀往來，燕子翻飛，這樣，無故的咒詛，也必不臨到。
As the bird by wandering, as the swallow by flying, so the curse causeless shall not come.

26:3    鞭子是為打馬。轡頭是為勒驢。刑杖是為打愚昧人的背。
A whip for the horse, a bridle for the ass, and a rod for the fool's back.

26:4    不要照愚昧人的愚妄話回答他，恐怕你與他一樣。
Answer not a fool according to his folly, lest thou also be like unto him.

26:5    要照愚昧人的愚妄話回答他，免得他自以為有智慧。
Answer a fool according to his folly, lest he be wise in his own conceit.

26:6    藉愚昧人手寄的，是砍斷自己的腳，自受損害。（自受原作喝）
He that sendeth a message by the hand of a fool cutteth off the feet, and drinketh damage.

26:7    瘸子的腳，空存無用。箴言在愚昧人的口中，也是如此。
The legs of the lame are not equal: so is a parable in the mouth of fools.

26:8    將尊榮給愚昧人的，好像人把石子包在機弦裡。
As he that bindeth a stone in a sling, so is he that giveth honour to a fool.

26:9    箴言在愚昧人的口中，好像荊棘刺入醉漢的手。
As a thorn goeth up into the hand of a drunkard, so is a parable in the mouth of fools.

26:10    僱愚昧人的，與僱過路人的，就像射傷眾人的弓箭手。
The great God that formed all things both rewardeth the fool, and rewardeth transgressors.

26:11    愚昧人行愚妄事，行了又行，就如狗轉過來吃他所吐的。
As a dog returneth to his vomit, so a fool returneth to his folly.

26:12    你見自以為有智慧的人嗎，愚昧人比他更有指望。
Seest thou a man wise in his own conceit? there is more hope of a fool than of him.

26:13    懶惰人說，道上有猛獅，街上有壯獅。
The slothful man saith, There is a lion in the way; a lion is in the streets.

26:14    門在樞紐轉動，懶惰人在床上也是如此。
As the door turneth upon his hinges, so doth the slothful upon his bed.

26:15    懶惰人放手在盤子裡，就是向口撤回，也以為勞乏。
The slothful hideth his hand in his bosom; it grieveth him to bring it again to his mouth.

26:16    懶惰人看自己，比七個善於應對的人更有智慧。
The sluggard is wiser in his own conceit than seven men that can render a reason.

26:17    過路被事激動，管理不幹己的爭競，好像人揪住狗耳。
He that passeth by, and meddleth with strife belonging not to him, is like one that taketh a dog by the ears.

26:18    人欺凌鄰舍，卻說，我豈不是戲耍嗎。他就像瘋狂的人，拋擲火把，利箭，與殺人的兵器。（殺人的兵器原文作死亡）
As a mad man who casteth firebrands, arrows, and death,

26:19    *
So is the man that deceiveth his neighbour, and saith, Am not I in sport?

26:20    火缺了柴，就必熄滅。無人傳舌，爭競便止息。
Where no wood is, there the fire goeth out: so where there is no talebearer, the strife ceaseth.

26:21    好爭競的人煽惑爭端，就如餘火加炭，火上加柴一樣。
As coals are to burning coals, and wood to fire; so is a contentious man to kindle strife.

26:22    傳舌人的言語，如同美食，深入人的心腹。
The words of a talebearer are as wounds, and they go down into the innermost parts of the belly.

26:23    火熱的嘴，奸惡的心，好像銀渣包的瓦器。
Burning lips and a wicked heart are like a potsherd covered with silver dross.

26:24    怨恨人的用嘴粉飾，心裡卻藏著詭詐。
He that hateth dissembleth with his lips, and layeth up deceit within him;

26:25    他用甜言蜜語，你不可信他，因為他心中有七樣可憎惡的。
When he speaketh fair, believe him not: for there are seven abominations in his heart.

26:26    他雖用詭詐遮掩自己的怨恨，他的邪惡必在會中顯露。
Whose hatred is covered by deceit, his wickedness shall be shewed before the whole congregation.

26:27    挖陷坑的，自己必掉在其中。輥石頭的，石頭必反輥在他身上。
Whoso diggeth a pit shall fall therein: and he that rolleth a stone, it will return upon him.

26:28    虛謊的舌，恨他所壓傷的人。諂媚的口，敗壞人的事。
A lying tongue hateth those that are afflicted by it; and a flattering mouth worketh ruin.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


27:1    不要為明日自誇，因為一日要生何事，你尚且不能知道。
Boast not thyself of to morrow; for thou knowest not what a day may bring forth.

27:2    要別人誇獎你，不可用口自誇。等外人稱讚你，不可用嘴自稱。
Let another man praise thee, and not thine own mouth; a stranger, and not thine own lips.

27:3    石頭重，沙土沉，愚妄人的惱怒，比這兩樣更重。
A stone is heavy, and the sand weighty; but a fool's wrath is heavier than them both.

27:4    忿怒為殘忍，怒氣為狂瀾，惟有嫉妒，誰能敵得住呢。
Wrath is cruel, and anger is outrageous; but who is able to stand before envy?

27:5    當面的責備，強如背地的愛情。
Open rebuke is better than secret love.

27:6    朋友加的傷痕，出於忠誠，仇敵連連親嘴，卻是多餘。
Faithful are the wounds of a friend; but the kisses of an enemy are deceitful.

27:7    人吃飽了，厭惡蜂房的蜜。人飢餓了，一切苦物都覺甘甜。
The full soul loatheth an honeycomb; but to the hungry soul every bitter thing is sweet.

27:8    人離本處飄流，好像雀鳥離窩遊飛。
As a bird that wandereth from her nest, so is a man that wandereth from his place.

27:9    膏油與香料，使人心喜悅。朋友誠實的勸教，也是如此甘美。
Ointment and perfume rejoice the heart: so doth the sweetness of a man's friend by hearty counsel.

27:10    你的朋友，和父親的朋友，你都不可離棄。你遭難的日子，不要上弟兄的家去。向近的鄰舍，強如遠方的弟兄。
Thine own friend, and thy father's friend, forsake not; neither go into thy brother's house in the day of thy calamity: for better is a neighbour that is near than a brother far off.

27:11    我兒，你要作智慧人，好叫我的心喜歡，使我可以回答那譏笑我的人。
My son, be wise, and make my heart glad, that I may answer him that reproacheth me.

27:12    通達人見禍藏躲。愚蒙人前往受害。
A prudent man foreseeth the evil, and hideth himself; but the simple pass on, and are punished.

27:13    誰為生人作保，就拿誰的衣服。誰為外女作保，誰就承當。
Take his garment that is surety for a stranger, and take a pledge of him for a strange woman.

27:14    清晨起來，大聲給朋友祝福的，就算是咒詛他。
He that blesseth his friend with a loud voice, rising early in the morning, it shall be counted a curse to him.

27:15    大雨之日連連滴漏，和爭吵的婦人一樣。
A continual dropping in a very rainy day and a contentious woman are alike.

27:16    想攔阻他的，便是攔阻風，也是右手抓油。
Whosoever hideth her hideth the wind, and the ointment of his right hand, which bewrayeth itself.

27:17    鐵磨鐵，磨出刃來。朋友相感，（原文作磨朋友的臉）也是如此。
Iron sharpeneth iron; so a man sharpeneth the countenance of his friend.

27:18    看守無花果樹的，必吃樹上的果子。敬奉主人的，必得尊榮。
Whoso keepeth the fig tree shall eat the fruit thereof: so he that waiteth on his master shall be honoured.

27:19    水中照臉，彼此相符。人與人，心也相對。
As in water face answereth to face, so the heart of man to man.

27:20    陰間和滅亡，永不滿足。人的眼目，也是如此。
Hell and destruction are never full; so the eyes of man are never satisfied.

27:21    鼎為煉銀，爐為鍊金，人的稱讚也試煉人。
As the fining pot for silver, and the furnace for gold; so is a man to his praise.

27:22    你雖用杵，將愚妄人與打碎的麥子一同搗在臼中，他的愚妄還是離不了他。
Though thou shouldest bray a fool in a mortar among wheat with a pestle, yet will not his foolishness depart from him.

27:23    你要詳細知道你羊群的景況。留心料理你的牛群。
Be thou diligent to know the state of thy flocks, and look well to thy herds.

27:24    因為貲財不能永有。冠冕豈能存到萬代。
For riches are not for ever: and doth the crown endure to every generation?

27:25    乾草割去，嫩草發現，山上的菜蔬，也被收斂。
The hay appeareth, and the tender grass sheweth itself, and herbs of the mountains are gathered.

27:26    羊羔之毛，是為你作衣服。山羊是為作田地的價值。
The lambs are for thy clothing, and the goats are the price of the field.

27:27    有母山羊奶夠你吃，也夠你的家眷吃，且夠養你的婢女。
And thou shalt have goats' milk enough for thy food, for the food of thy household, and for the maintenance for thy maidens.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


28:1    惡人雖無人追趕也逃跑，義人卻膽壯像獅子。
The wicked flee when no man pursueth: but the righteous are bold as a lion.

28:2    邦國因有罪過，君王就多更換。因有聰明知識的人，國必長存。
For the transgression of a land many are the princes thereof: but by a man of understanding and knowledge the state thereof shall be prolonged.

28:3    窮人欺壓貧民，好像暴雨衝沒糧食。
A poor man that oppresseth the poor is like a sweeping rain which leaveth no food.

28:4    違棄律法的，誇獎惡人。遵守律法的，卻與惡人相爭。
They that forsake the law praise the wicked: but such as keep the law contend with them.

28:5    壞人不明白公義。惟有尋求耶和華的，無不明白。
Evil men understand not judgment: but they that seek the LORD understand all things.

28:6    行為純正的窮乏人，勝過行事乖僻的富足人。
Better is the poor that walketh in his uprightness, than he that is perverse in his ways, though he be rich.

28:7    謹守律法的是智慧之子。與貪食人作伴的，卻羞辱其父。
Whoso keepeth the law is a wise son: but he that is a companion of riotous men shameth his father.

28:8    人以厚利加增財物，是給那憐憫窮人者積蓄的。
He that by usury and unjust gain increaseth his substance, he shall gather it for him that will pity the poor.

28:9    轉耳不聽律法的，他的祈禱也為可憎。
He that turneth away his ear from hearing the law, even his prayer shall be abomination.

28:10    誘惑正直人行惡道的，必掉在自己的坑裡。惟有完全人，必承受福分。
Whoso causeth the righteous to go astray in an evil way, he shall fall himself into his own pit: but the upright shall have good things in possession.

28:11    富足人自以為有智慧。但聰明的貧窮人，能將他查透。
The rich man is wise in his own conceit; but the poor that hath understanding searcheth him out.

28:12    義人得志有大榮耀。惡人興起人就躲藏。
When righteous men do rejoice, there is great glory: but when the wicked rise, a man is hidden.

28:13    遮掩自己罪過的，必不享通。承認離棄罪過的，必蒙憐恤。
He that covereth his sins shall not prosper: but whoso confesseth and forsaketh them shall have mercy.

28:14    常存敬畏的，便為有福。心存剛硬的，必陷在禍患裡。
Happy is the man that feareth alway: but he that hardeneth his heart shall fall into mischief.

28:15    暴虐的君王轄制貧民。好像吼叫的獅子，覓食的熊。
As a roaring lion, and a ranging bear; so is a wicked ruler over the poor people.

28:16    無知的君多行暴虐。以貪財為可恨的，必年長日久。
The prince that wanteth understanding is also a great oppressor: but he that hateth covetousness shall prolong his days.

28:17    揹負流人血之罪的，必往坑裡奔跑，誰也不可攔阻他。
A man that doeth violence to the blood of any person shall flee to the pit; let no man stay him.

28:18    行動正直的，必蒙拯救。行事彎曲的，立時跌倒。
Whoso walketh uprightly shall be saved: but he that is perverse in his ways shall fall at once.

28:19    耕種自己田地的，必得飽食。追隨虛浮的，足受窮乏。
He that tilleth his land shall have plenty of bread: but he that followeth after vain persons shall have poverty enough.

28:20    誠實人必多得福，想要急速發財的，不免受罰。
A faithful man shall abound with blessings: but he that maketh haste to be rich shall not be innocent.

28:21    看人的情面，乃為不好。人因一塊餅枉法，也為不好。
To have respect of persons is not good: for for a piece of bread that man will transgress.

28:22    人有惡眼想要急速發財，卻不知窮乏必臨到他身。
He that hasteth to be rich hath an evil eye, and considereth not that poverty shall come upon him.

28:23    責備人的，後來蒙人喜悅，多於那用舌頭諂媚人的。
He that rebuketh a man afterwards shall find more favour than he that flattereth with the tongue.

28:24    偷竊父母的，說，這不是罪。此人就是與強盜同類。
Whoso robbeth his father or his mother, and saith, It is no transgression; the same is the companion of a destroyer.

28:25    心中貪婪的，挑起爭端。倚靠耶和華的，必得豐裕。
He that is of a proud heart stirreth up strife: but he that putteth his trust in the LORD shall be made fat.

28:26    心中自是的，便是愚昧人。憑智慧行事的，必蒙拯救。
He that trusteth in his own heart is a fool: but whoso walketh wisely, he shall be delivered.

28:27    賙濟貧窮的，不致缺乏。佯為不見的，必多受咒詛。
He that giveth unto the poor shall not lack: but he that hideth his eyes shall have many a curse.

28:28    惡人興起，人就躲藏。惡人敗亡，義人增多。
When the wicked rise, men hide themselves: but when they perish, the righteous increase.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


29:1    人屢次受責罰，仍然硬著頸項，他必頃刻敗壞，無法可治。
He, that being often reproved hardeneth his neck, shall suddenly be destroyed, and that without remedy.

29:2    義人增多，民就喜樂。惡人掌權，民就嘆息。
When the righteous are in authority, the people rejoice: but when the wicked beareth rule, the people mourn.

29:3    愛慕智慧的，使父親喜樂。與妓女結交的，卻浪費錢財。
Whoso loveth wisdom rejoiceth his father: but he that keepeth company with harlots spendeth his substance.

29:4    王藉公平，使國堅定。索要賄賂，使國傾敗。
The king by judgment establisheth the land: but he that receiveth gifts overthroweth it.

29:5    諂媚鄰舍的，就是設網羅絆他的腳。
A man that flattereth his neighbour spreadeth a net for his feet.

29:6    惡人犯罪，自陷網羅。惟獨義人，歡呼喜樂。
In the transgression of an evil man there is a snare: but the righteous doth sing and rejoice.

29:7    義人知道查明窮人的案。惡人沒有聰明，就不得而知。
The righteous considereth the cause of the poor: but the wicked regardeth not to know it.

29:8    褻慢人煽惑通城。智慧人止息眾怒。
Scornful men bring a city into a snare: but wise men turn away wrath.

29:9    智慧人與愚妄人相爭，或怒，或笑，總不能使他止息。
If a wise man contendeth with a foolish man, whether he rage or laugh, there is no rest.

29:10    好流人血的，恨惡完全人。索取正直人的性命。
The bloodthirsty hate the upright: but the just seek his soul.

29:11    愚妄人怒氣全發。智慧人忍氣含怒。
A fool uttereth all his mind: but a wise man keepeth it in till afterwards.

29:12    君王若聽謊言，他一切臣僕都是奸惡。
If a ruler hearken to lies, all his servants are wicked.

29:13    貧窮人，強暴人，在世相遇，他們的眼目，都蒙耶和華光照。
The poor and the deceitful man meet together: the LORD lighteneth both their eyes.

29:14    君王憑誠實判斷窮人，他的國位，必永遠堅立。
The king that faithfully judgeth the poor, his throne shall be established for ever.

29:15    杖打和責備，能加增智慧。放縱的兒子，使母親羞愧。
The rod and reproof give wisdom: but a child left to himself bringeth his mother to shame.

29:16    惡人加多，過犯也加多。義人必看見他們跌倒。
When the wicked are multiplied, transgression increaseth: but the righteous shall see their fall.

29:17    管教你的兒子，他就使你得安息，也必使你心裡喜樂。
Correct thy son, and he shall give thee rest; yea, he shall give delight unto thy soul.

29:18    沒有異象，（或作默示）民就放肆。惟遵守律法的，便為有福。
Where there is no vision, the people perish: but he that keepeth the law, happy is he.

29:19    只用言語，僕人不肯受管教，他雖然明白，也不留意。
A servant will not be corrected by words: for though he understand he will not answer.

29:20    你見言語急躁的人嗎。愚昧人比他更有指望。
Seest thou a man that is hasty in his words? there is more hope of a fool than of him.

29:21    人將僕人從小嬌養，這僕人終久必成了他的兒子。
He that delicately bringeth up his servant from a child shall have him become his son at the length.

29:22    好氣的人，挑啟爭端。暴怒的人，多多犯罪。
An angry man stirreth up strife, and a furious man aboundeth in transgression.

29:23    人的高傲，必使他卑下。心裡謙遜的，必得尊榮。
A man's pride shall bring him low: but honour shall uphold the humble in spirit.

29:24    人與盜賊分贓，是恨惡自己的性命。他聽見叫人發誓的聲音，卻不言語。
Whoso is partner with a thief hateth his own soul: he heareth cursing, and bewrayeth it not.

29:25    懼怕人的陷入網羅。惟有倚靠耶和華的，必得安穩。
The fear of man bringeth a snare: but whoso putteth his trust in the LORD shall be safe.

29:26    求王恩的人多。定人事乃在耶和華。
Many seek the ruler's favour; but every man's judgment cometh from the LORD.

29:27    為非作歹的，被義人憎嫌。行事正直的，被惡人憎惡。
An unjust man is an abomination to the just: and he that is upright in the way is abomination to the wicked.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


30:1    雅基的兒子亞古珥的言語，就是真言。
The words of Agur the son of Jakeh, even the prophecy: the man spake unto Ithiel, even unto Ithiel and Ucal,

30:2    這人對以鐵和烏甲說，我比眾人更蠢笨，也沒有人的聰明。
Surely I am more brutish than any man, and have not the understanding of a man.

30:3    我沒有學好智慧。也不認識至聖者。
I neither learned wisdom, nor have the knowledge of the holy.

30:4    誰昇天又降下來。誰聚風在掌中。誰包水在衣服裡。誰立定地的四極。他名叫什麼。他兒子叫名叫什麼。你知道嗎。
Who hath ascended up into heaven, or descended? who hath gathered the wind in his fists? who hath bound the waters in a garment? who hath established all the ends of the earth? what is his name, and what is his son's name, if thou canst tell?

30:5    神的言語，句句都是煉淨的，投靠他的，他便作他們的盾牌。
Every word of God is pure: he is a shield unto them that put their trust in him.

30:6    他的言語，你不可加添。恐怕他責備你，你就顯為說謊言的。
Add thou not unto his words, lest he reprove thee, and thou be found a liar.

30:7    我求你兩件事，在我未死之先，不要不賜給我。
Two things have I required of thee; deny me them not before I die:

30:8    求你使虛假和謊言遠離我。使我也不貧窮，也不富足，賜給我需用的飲食。
Remove far from me vanity and lies: give me neither poverty nor riches; feed me with food convenient for me:

30:9    恐怕我飽足不認你，說，耶和華是誰呢。又恐怕我貧窮就偷竊，以致褻瀆我神的名。
Lest I be full, and deny thee, and say, Who is the LORD? or lest I be poor, and steal, and take the name of my God in vain.

30:10    你不要向主人讒謗僕人。恐怕他咒詛你，你便算為有罪。
Accuse not a servant unto his master, lest he curse thee, and thou be found guilty.

30:11    有一宗人，（宗原文作代下同）咒詛父親，不給母親祝福。
There is a generation that curseth their father, and doth not bless their mother.

30:12    有一宗人，自以為清潔，卻沒有洗去自己的汙穢。
There is a generation that are pure in their own eyes, and yet is not washed from their filthiness.

30:13    有一宗人，眼目何其高傲，眼皮也是高舉。
There is a generation, O how lofty are their eyes! and their eyelids are lifted up.

30:14    有一宗人，牙如劍，齒如刀，要吞滅地上的困苦人，和世間的窮乏人。
There is a generation, whose teeth are as swords, and their jaw teeth as knives, to devour the poor from off the earth, and the needy from among men.

30:15    螞蟥有兩個女兒，常說，給呀給呀。有三樣不知足的，連不說夠的共有四樣。
The horseleach hath two daughters, crying, Give, give. There are three things that are never satisfied, yea, four things say not, It is enough:

30:16    就是陰間，和石胎，浸水不足的地，併火。
The grave; and the barren womb; the earth that is not filled with water; and the fire that saith not, It is enough.

30:17    戲笑父親，藐視而不聽從母親的，他的眼睛，必為谷中的烏鴉啄出來，為鷹雛所吃。
The eye that mocketh at his father, and despiseth to obey his mother, the ravens of the valley shall pick it out, and the young eagles shall eat it.

30:18    我所測不透的奇妙有三樣，連我所不知道的共有四樣。
There be three things which are too wonderful for me, yea, four which I know not:

30:19    就是鷹在空中飛的道，蛇在磐石上爬的道，船在海中行的道，男與女交合的道。
The way of an eagle in the air; the way of a serpent upon a rock; the way of a ship in the midst of the sea; and the way of a man with a maid.

30:20    淫婦的道，也是這樣，他吃了把嘴一擦，就說，我沒有行惡。
Such is the way of an adulterous woman; she eateth, and wipeth her mouth, and saith, I have done no wickedness.

30:21    使地震動的有三樣，連地擔不起的共有四樣。
For three things the earth is disquieted, and for four which it cannot bear:

30:22    就是僕人作王。愚頑人吃飽。
For a servant when he reigneth; and a fool when he is filled with meat;

30:23    醜惡的女子出嫁。婢女接續主母。
For an odious woman when she is married; and an handmaid that is heir to her mistress.

30:24    地上有四樣小物，卻甚聰明。
There be four things which are little upon the earth, but they are exceeding wise:

30:25    螞蟻是無力之類，卻在夏天豫備糧食。
The ants are a people not strong, yet they prepare their meat in the summer;

30:26    沙番是軟弱之類，卻在磐石中造房。
The conies are but a feeble folk, yet make they their houses in the rocks;

30:27    蝗蟲沒有君王，卻分隊而出。
The locusts have no king, yet go they forth all of them by bands;

30:28    守宮用爪抓牆，卻住在王宮。
The spider taketh hold with her hands, and is in kings' palaces.

30:29    步行威武的有三樣，連行走威武的共有四樣。
There be three things which go well, yea, four are comely in going:

30:30    就是獅子乃百獸中最為猛烈，無所躲避的。
A lion which is strongest among beasts, and turneth not away for any;

30:31    獵狗，公山羊，和無人能敵的君王。
A greyhound; an he goat also; and a king, against whom there is no rising up.

30:32    你若行事愚頑，自高自傲，或是壞了惡念，就當用手捂口。
If thou hast done foolishly in lifting up thyself, or if thou hast thought evil, lay thine hand upon thy mouth.

30:33    搖牛奶必成奶油。扭鼻子必出血。照樣，激動怒氣必起爭端。
Surely the churning of milk bringeth forth butter, and the wringing of the nose bringeth forth blood: so the forcing of wrath bringeth forth strife.




舊約 -- 箴言(Proverbs) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 31 章 )    　


31:1    利慕伊勒王的言語，是他母親教訓他的真言。
The words of king Lemuel, the prophecy that his mother taught him.

31:2    我的兒阿，我腹中生的兒阿，我許願得的兒阿，我當怎樣教訓你呢。
What, my son? and what, the son of my womb? and what, the son of my vows?

31:3    不要將你的精力給婦女，也不要有敗壞君王的行為。
Give not thy strength unto women, nor thy ways to that which destroyeth kings.

31:4    利慕伊勒阿，君王喝酒，君王喝酒不相宜。王子說，濃酒在那裡也不相宜。
It is not for kings, O Lemuel, it is not for kings to drink wine; nor for princes strong drink:

31:5    恐怕喝了就忘記律例，顛倒一切困苦人的是非。
Lest they drink, and forget the law, and pervert the judgment of any of the afflicted.

31:6    可以把濃酒給將亡的人喝。把清酒給苦心的人喝。
Give strong drink unto him that is ready to perish, and wine unto those that be of heavy hearts.

31:7    讓他們喝了，就忘記他的貧窮，不在記念他的苦楚。
Let him drink, and forget his poverty, and remember his misery no more.

31:8    你當為啞吧（或作不能自辨的）開口，為一切孤獨的伸冤。
Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed to destruction.

31:9    你當開口按公義判斷，為困苦和窮乏的辨屈。
Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and needy.

31:10    才德的婦人，誰能得著呢，他的價值勝過珍珠。
Who can find a virtuous woman? for her price is far above rubies.

31:11    他丈夫心裡倚靠他，必不缺少利益。
The heart of her husband doth safely trust in her, so that he shall have no need of spoil.

31:12    他一生使丈夫有益無損。
She will do him good and not evil all the days of her life.

31:13    他尋梢羊絨和麻，甘心用手作工。
She seeketh wool, and flax, and worketh willingly with her hands.

31:14    他好像商船從遠方運糧來。
She is like the merchants' ships; she bringeth her food from afar.

31:15    未到黎明他就起來，把食物分給家中的人。將當作的工分派婢女。
She riseth also while it is yet night, and giveth meat to her household, and a portion to her maidens.

31:16    他想得田地，就買來。用手所的之利，栽種葡萄園。
She considereth a field, and buyeth it: with the fruit of her hands she planteth a vineyard.

31:17    他以能力束腰，使膀臂有力。
She girdeth her loins with strength, and strengtheneth her arms.

31:18    他覺得所經營的有利，他的燈終夜不滅。
She perceiveth that her merchandise is good: her candle goeth not out by night.

31:19    他手拿捻線竿。手把紡線車。
She layeth her hands to the spindle, and her hands hold the distaff.

31:20    他張手賙濟困苦人，伸手幫補窮乏人。
She stretcheth out her hand to the poor; yea, she reacheth forth her hands to the needy.

31:21    他不因下雪為家裡的人擔心，因為全家都穿著硃紅衣服。
She is not afraid of the snow for her household: for all her household are clothed with scarlet.

31:22    他為自己製作繡花毯子，他的衣服，是細麻和紫色布作的。
She maketh herself coverings of tapestry; her clothing is silk and purple.

31:23    他丈夫在城門口與本地的長老同坐，為眾人所認識。
Her husband is known in the gates, when he sitteth among the elders of the land.

31:24    他作細麻衣裳出賣。又將腰帶賣與商家。
She maketh fine linen, and selleth it; and delivereth girdles unto the merchant.

31:25    能力和威儀，是他的衣服。他想到日後的景況就喜笑。
Strength and honour are her clothing; and she shall rejoice in time to come.

31:26    他開口就發智慧。他舌上有仁慈的法則。
She openeth her mouth with wisdom; and in her tongue is the law of kindness.

31:27    他觀察家務，並不吃閒飯。
She looketh well to the ways of her household, and eateth not the bread of idleness.

31:28    他的兒女起來稱他有福。他的丈夫也稱讚他，
Her children arise up, and call her blessed; her husband also, and he praiseth her.

31:29    說，才德的女子很多，惟獨你超過一切。
Many daughters have done virtuously, but thou excellest them all.

31:30    豔麗是虛假的。美容是虛浮的。惟敬畏耶和華的婦女，必得稱讚。
Favour is deceitful, and beauty is vain: but a woman that feareth the LORD, she shall be praised.

31:31    願他享受操作所得的。願他的工作，在城門口榮耀他。
Give her of the fruit of her hands; and let her own works praise her in the gates.





