


舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


1:1    在耶路撒冷作王，大衛的兒子，傳道者的言語。
The words of the Preacher, the son of David, king in Jerusalem.

1:2    傳道者說，虛空的虛空，虛空的虛空。凡事都是虛空。
Vanity of vanities, saith the Preacher, vanity of vanities; all is vanity.

1:3    人一切的勞碌，就是他在日光之下的勞碌，有什麼益處呢。
What profit hath a man of all his labour which he taketh under the sun?

1:4    一代過去，一代又來。地卻永遠長存。
One generation passeth away, and another generation cometh: but the earth abideth for ever.

1:5    日頭出來，日頭落下，急歸所出之地。
The sun also ariseth, and the sun goeth down, and hasteth to his place where he arose.

1:6    風往南刮，又向北轉，不住的旋轉，而且返回轉行原道。
The wind goeth toward the south, and turneth about unto the north; it whirleth about continually, and the wind returneth again according to his circuits.

1:7    江河都往海里流，海卻不滿。江河從何處流，仍歸何處。
All the rivers run into the sea; yet the sea is not full; unto the place from whence the rivers come, thither they return again.

1:8    萬事令人厭煩。（或作萬物滿有睏乏）人不能說盡。眼看，看不飽，耳聽，聽不足。
All things are full of labour; man cannot utter it: the eye is not satisfied with seeing, nor the ear filled with hearing.

1:9    已有的事，後必再有。已行的事，後必再行。日光之下並無新事。
The thing that hath been, it is that which shall be; and that which is done is that which shall be done: and there is no new thing under the sun.

1:10    豈有一件事人能指著說，這是新的。那知，在我們以前的世代，早已有了。
Is there any thing whereof it may be said, See, this is new? it hath been already of old time, which was before us.

1:11    已過的世代，無人記念，將來的世代，後來的人也不記念。
There is no remembrance of former things; neither shall there be any remembrance of things that are to come with those that shall come after.

1:12    我傳道者在耶路撒冷作過以色列的王。
I the Preacher was king over Israel in Jerusalem.

1:13    我專心用智慧尋求查究天下所作的一切事，乃知神叫世人所經練的，是極重的勞苦。
And I gave my heart to seek and search out by wisdom concerning all things that are done under heaven: this sore travail hath God given to the sons of man to be exercised therewith.

1:14    我見日光之下所作的一切事，都是虛空，都是捕風。
I have seen all the works that are done under the sun; and, behold, all is vanity and vexation of spirit.

1:15    彎曲的不能變直，缺少的不能足數。
That which is crooked cannot be made straight: and that which is wanting cannot be numbered.

1:16    我心裡議論，說，我得了大智慧，勝過我以前在耶路撒冷的眾人。而且我心中多經歷智慧，和知識的事。
I communed with mine own heart, saying, Lo, I am come to great estate, and have gotten more wisdom than all they that have been before me in Jerusalem: yea, my heart had great experience of wisdom and knowledge.

1:17    我又專心察明智慧，狂妄，和愚昧。乃知道也是捕風。
And I gave my heart to know wisdom, and to know madness and folly: I perceived that this also is vexation of spirit.

1:18    因為多有智慧，就多有愁煩。加增知識的，就加增憂傷。
For in much wisdom is much grief: and he that increaseth knowledge increaseth sorrow.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


2:1    我心裡說，來吧，我以喜樂試試你，你好享福。誰知道，這也是虛空。
I said in mine heart, Go to now, I will prove thee with mirth, therefore enjoy pleasure: and, behold, this also is vanity.

2:2    我指嬉笑說，這是狂妄。論喜樂說，有何功效呢。
I said of laughter, It is mad: and of mirth, What doeth it?

2:3    我心裡察究，如何用酒使我肉體舒暢，我心卻仍以智慧引導我。又如何持住愚昧，等我看明世人，在天下一生當行何事為美。
I sought in mine heart to give myself unto wine, yet acquainting mine heart with wisdom; and to lay hold on folly, till I might see what was that good for the sons of men, which they should do under the heaven all the days of their life.

2:4    我為自己動大工程，建造房屋，栽種葡萄園，
I made me great works; I builded me houses; I planted me vineyards:

2:5    修造園囿，在其中栽種各樣果木樹，
I made me gardens and orchards, and I planted trees in them of all kind of fruits:

2:6    挖造水池，用以澆灌嫩小的樹木。
I made me pools of water, to water therewith the wood that bringeth forth trees:

2:7    我買了僕婢，也有生在家中的僕婢。又有許多牛群羊群，勝過以前在耶路撒冷眾人所有的。
I got me servants and maidens, and had servants born in my house; also I had great possessions of great and small cattle above all that were in Jerusalem before me:

2:8    我又為自己積蓄金銀，和君王的財寶，並各省的財寶。又得唱歌的男女，和世人所喜愛的物，並許多的妃嬪。
I gathered me also silver and gold, and the peculiar treasure of kings and of the provinces: I gat me men singers and women singers, and the delights of the sons of men, as musical instruments, and that of all sorts.

2:9    這樣，我就日見昌盛，勝過以前在耶路撒冷的眾人。我的智慧仍然存留。
So I was great, and increased more than all that were before me in Jerusalem: also my wisdom remained with me.

2:10    凡我眼所求的，我沒有留下不給他的。我心所樂的，我沒有禁止不享受的。因我的心為我一切所勞碌的快樂。這就是我從勞碌中所得的分。
And whatsoever mine eyes desired I kept not from them, I withheld not my heart from any joy; for my heart rejoiced in all my labour: and this was my portion of all my labour.

2:11    後來我察看我手所經營的一切事，和我勞碌所成的功。誰知都是虛空，都是捕風，在日光之下毫無益處。
Then I looked on all the works that my hands had wrought, and on the labour that I had laboured to do: and, behold, all was vanity and vexation of spirit, and there was no profit under the sun.

2:12    我轉念觀看智慧，狂妄，和愚昧。在王以後而來的人，還能作什麼呢。也不過行早先所行的就是了。
And I turned myself to behold wisdom, and madness, and folly: for what can the man do that cometh after the king? even that which hath been already done.

2:13    我便看出智慧勝過愚昧，如同光明勝過黑暗。
Then I saw that wisdom excelleth folly, as far as light excelleth darkness.

2:14    智慧人的眼目光明，（光明原文作在他頭上）愚昧人在黑暗裡行。我卻看明有一件事，這兩等人都必遇見。
The wise man's eyes are in his head; but the fool walketh in darkness: and I myself perceived also that one event happeneth to them all.

2:15    我就心裡說，愚昧人所遇見的，我也必遇見。我為何更有智慧呢。我心裡說，這也是虛空。
Then said I in my heart, As it happeneth to the fool, so it happeneth even to me; and why was I then more wise? Then I said in my heart, that this also is vanity.

2:16    智慧人，和愚昧人一樣，永遠無人記念。因為日後都被忘記。可嘆智慧人死亡，與愚昧人無異。
For there is no remembrance of the wise more than of the fool for ever; seeing that which now is in the days to come shall all be forgotten. And how dieth the wise man? as the fool.

2:17    我所以恨惡生命，因為在日光之下所行的事我都以為煩惱。都是虛空，都是捕風。
Therefore I hated life; because the work that is wrought under the sun is grievous unto me: for all is vanity and vexation of spirit.

2:18    我恨惡一切的勞碌，就是我在日光之下的勞碌。因為我得來的必留給我以後的人。
Yea, I hated all my labour which I had taken under the sun: because I should leave it unto the man that shall be after me.

2:19    那人是智慧，是愚昧，誰能知道。他竟要管理我勞碌所得的，就是我在日光之下用智慧所得的。這也是虛空。
And who knoweth whether he shall be a wise man or a fool? yet shall he have rule over all my labour wherein I have laboured, and wherein I have shewed myself wise under the sun. This is also vanity.

2:20    故此，我轉想我在日光之下所勞碌的一切工作，心便絕望。
Therefore I went about to cause my heart to despair of all the labour which I took under the sun.

2:21    因為有人用智慧知識靈巧所勞碌得來的，卻要留給未曾勞碌的人為分。這也是虛空，也是大患。
For there is a man whose labour is in wisdom, and in knowledge, and in equity; yet to a man that hath not laboured therein shall he leave it for his portion. This also is vanity and a great evil.

2:22    人在日光之下勞碌累心，在他一切的勞碌人得著什麼呢。
For what hath man of all his labour, and of the vexation of his heart, wherein he hath laboured under the sun?

2:23    因為他日日憂慮，他的勞苦成為愁煩。連夜間心也不安。這也是虛空。
For all his days are sorrows, and his travail grief; yea, his heart taketh not rest in the night. This is also vanity.

2:24    人莫強如吃喝，且在勞碌中享福。我看這也是出於神的手。
There is nothing better for a man, than that he should eat and drink, and that he should make his soul enjoy good in his labour. This also I saw, that it was from the hand of God.

2:25    論到吃用，享福，誰能勝過我呢。
For who can eat, or who else can hasten hereunto, more than I?

2:26    神喜悅誰，就給誰智慧，知識，和喜樂。惟有罪人，神使他勞苦，叫他將所收聚的，所堆積的，歸給神所喜悅的人。這也是虛空，也是捕風。
For God giveth to a man that is good in his sight wisdom, and knowledge, and joy: but to the sinner he giveth travail, to gather and to heap up, that he may give to him that is good before God. This also is vanity and vexation of spirit.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


3:1    凡事都有定期，天下萬務都有定時。
To every thing there is a season, and a time to every purpose under the heaven:

3:2    生有時，死有時。栽種有時，拔出所栽種的，也有時。
A time to be born, and a time to die; a time to plant, and a time to pluck up that which is planted;

3:3    殺戮有時，醫治有時。拆毀有時，建造有時。
A time to kill, and a time to heal; a time to break down, and a time to build up;

3:4    哭有時，笑有時。哀慟有時，跳舞有時。
A time to weep, and a time to laugh; a time to mourn, and a time to dance;

3:5    拋擲石頭有時，堆聚石頭有時。懷抱有時，不懷抱有時。
A time to cast away stones, and a time to gather stones together; a time to embrace, and a time to refrain from embracing;

3:6    尋梢有時，失落有時。保守有時，捨棄有時。
A time to get, and a time to lose; a time to keep, and a time to cast away;

3:7    撕裂有時，縫補有時。靜默有時，言語有時。
A time to rend, and a time to sew; a time to keep silence, and a time to speak;

3:8    喜愛有時，恨惡有時。爭戰有時，和好有時。
A time to love, and a time to hate; a time of war, and a time of peace.

3:9    這樣看來，作事的人在他的勞碌上有什麼益處呢。
What profit hath he that worketh in that wherein he laboureth?

3:10    我見神叫世人勞苦，使他們在其中受經練。
I have seen the travail, which God hath given to the sons of men to be exercised in it.

3:11    神造萬物，各按其時成為美好。又將永生安置在世人心裡。（永生原文作永遠）然而神從始至終的作為，人不能叄透。
He hath made every thing beautiful in his time: also he hath set the world in their heart, so that no man can find out the work that God maketh from the beginning to the end.

3:12    我知道世人，莫強如終身喜樂行善。
I know that there is no good in them, but for a man to rejoice, and to do good in his life.

3:13    並且人人吃喝，在他一切勞碌中享福。這也是神的恩賜。
And also that every man should eat and drink, and enjoy the good of all his labour, it is the gift of God.

3:14    我知道神一切所作的，都必永存，無所增添，無所減少。神這樣行，是要人在他面前存敬畏的心。
I know that, whatsoever God doeth, it shall be for ever: nothing can be put to it, nor any thing taken from it: and God doeth it, that men should fear before him.

3:15    現今的事早先就有了。經來的事早已也有了。並且神使已過的事重新再來。（或作並且神再尋回已過的事）
That which hath been is now; and that which is to be hath already been; and God requireth that which is past.



3:16    我又見日光之下，在審判之處有奸惡。在公義之處也有奸惡。
And moreover I saw under the sun the place of judgment, that wickedness was there; and the place of righteousness, that iniquity was there.

3:17    我心裡說，神必審判義人和惡人。因為在那裡，各樣事務，一切工作，都有定時。
I said in mine heart, God shall judge the righteous and the wicked: for there is a time there for every purpose and for every work.

3:18    我心裡說，這乃為世人的緣故，是神要試驗他們，使他們覺得自己不過像獸一樣。
I said in mine heart concerning the estate of the sons of men, that God might manifest them, and that they might see that they themselves are beasts.

3:19    因為世人遭遇的，獸也遭遇。所遭遇的都是一樣。這個怎樣死，那個也怎樣死。氣息都是一樣。人不能強於獸。都是虛空。
For that which befalleth the sons of men befalleth beasts; even one thing befalleth them: as the one dieth, so dieth the other; yea, they have all one breath; so that a man hath no preeminence above a beast: for all is vanity.

3:20    都歸一處。都是出於塵土，也都歸於塵土。
All go unto one place; all are of the dust, and all turn to dust again.

3:21    誰知道人的靈是往上升，獸的魂是下入地呢。
Who knoweth the spirit of man that goeth upward, and the spirit of the beast that goeth downward to the earth?

3:22    故此，我見人，莫強如他經營的事上喜樂。因為這是他的分。他身後的事，誰能使他回來得見呢。
Wherefore I perceive that there is nothing better, than that a man should rejoice in his own works; for that is his portion: for who shall bring him to see what shall be after him?




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


4:1    我又轉念，見日光之下所行的一切欺壓。看哪，受欺壓的流淚，且無人安慰。欺壓他們的有勢力，也無人安慰他們。
So I returned, and considered all the oppressions that are done under the sun: and behold the tears of such as were oppressed, and they had no comforter; and on the side of their oppressors there was power; but they had no comforter.

4:2    因此，我讚歎那早已死的死人，勝過那還活著的活人。
Wherefore I praised the dead which are already dead more than the living which are yet alive.

4:3    並且我以為那未曾生的，就是未見過日光之下惡事的，比這兩等人更強。
Yea, better is he than both they, which hath not yet been, who hath not seen the evil work that is done under the sun.

4:4    我又見人為一切的勞碌，和各樣靈巧的工作，就被鄰舍嫉妒。這也是虛空，也是捕風。
Again, I considered all travail, and every right work, that for this a man is envied of his neighbour. This is also vanity and vexation of spirit.

4:5    愚昧人抱著手，吃自己的肉。
The fool foldeth his hands together, and eateth his own flesh.

4:6    滿了一把，得享安靜，強如滿了兩把，勞碌捕風。
Better is an handful with quietness, than both the hands full with travail and vexation of spirit.

4:7    我又轉念，見日光之下有一件虛空的事。
Then I returned, and I saw vanity under the sun.

4:8    有人孤單無二，無子，無兄，竟勞碌不息，眼目也不以錢財為足。（他說）我勞勞碌碌，刻苦自己，不享福樂，到底是為誰呢。這也是虛空，是極重的勞苦。
There is one alone, and there is not a second; yea, he hath neither child nor brother: yet is there no end of all his labour; neither is his eye satisfied with riches; neither saith he, For whom do I labour, and bereave my soul of good? This is also vanity, yea, it is a sore travail.

4:9    兩個人總比一個人好，因為二人勞碌同得美好的果效。
Two are better than one; because they have a good reward for their labour.

4:10    若是跌倒，這人可以扶起他的同伴。若是孤身跌倒，沒有別人扶起他來。這人就有禍了。
For if they fall, the one will lift up his fellow: but woe to him that is alone when he falleth; for he hath not another to help him up.

4:11    再者，二人同睡，就都暖和。一人獨睡，怎能暖和呢。
Again, if two lie together, then they have heat: but how can one be warm alone?

4:12    有人功勝孤身一人，若有二人便能敵擋他。三股合成的繩子，不容易折斷。
And if one prevail against him, two shall withstand him; and a threefold cord is not quickly broken.

4:13    貧窮而有智慧的少年人，勝過年老不肯納諫的愚昧王。
Better is a poor and a wise child than an old and foolish king, who will no more be admonished.

4:14    這人是從監牢中出來作王。在他國中，生來原是貧窮的。
For out of prison he cometh to reign; whereas also he that is born in his kingdom becometh poor.

4:15    我見日光之下一切行動的活人，都隨從那第二位，就是起來替老王的少年人。
I considered all the living which walk under the sun, with the second child that shall stand up in his stead.

4:16    他所治理的眾人，就是他的百姓，多得無數。在他後來的人，尚且不喜悅他。這是虛空，也是捕風。
There is no end of all the people, even of all that have been before them: they also that come after shall not rejoice in him. Surely this also is vanity and vexation of spirit.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


5:1    你到神的殿，要謹慎腳步。因為近前聽，勝過愚昧人獻祭，（或作勝過獻愚昧人的祭）他們本不知道所作的是惡。
Keep thy foot when thou goest to the house of God, and be more ready to hear, than to give the sacrifice of fools: for they consider not that they do evil.

5:2    你在神面前不可冒失開口，也不可心急發言。因為神在天上，你在地下，所以你的言語要寡少。
Be not rash with thy mouth, and let not thine heart be hasty to utter any thing before God: for God is in heaven, and thou upon earth: therefore let thy words be few.



5:3    事務多，就令人作夢，言語多，就顯出愚昧。
For a dream cometh through the multitude of business; and a fool's voice is known by multitude of words.

5:4    你向神許願，償還不可遲延。因他不喜悅愚昧人。所以你許的願應當償還。
When thou vowest a vow unto God, defer not to pay it; for he hath no pleasure in fools: pay that which thou hast vowed.

5:5    你許願不還，不如不許。
Better is it that thou shouldest not vow, than that thou shouldest vow and not pay.

5:6    不可任你的口使肉體犯罪。也不可在祭司（原文作使者）面前說是錯許了。為何使神因你的聲音發怒，敗壞你手所作的呢。
Suffer not thy mouth to cause thy flesh to sin; neither say thou before the angel, that it was an error: wherefore should God be angry at thy voice, and destroy the work of thine hands?

5:7    多夢和多言，其中多有虛幻。你只要敬畏神。
For in the multitude of dreams and many words there are also divers vanities: but fear thou God.

5:8    你若在一省之中見窮人受人欺壓，並奪去公義公平的事，不要因此詫異。因有一位高過居高位的鑑察。在他們以上還有更高的。
If thou seest the oppression of the poor, and violent perverting of judgment and justice in a province, marvel not at the matter: for he that is higher than the highest regardeth; and there be higher than they.

5:9    況且地的益處歸眾人。就是君王也受田地的供應。
Moreover the profit of the earth is for all: the king himself is served by the field.

5:10    貪愛銀子的，不因得銀子知足。貪愛豐富的，也不因得利益知足。這也是虛空。
He that loveth silver shall not be satisfied with silver; nor he that loveth abundance with increase: this is also vanity.

5:11    貨物增添，吃的人也增添。物主得什麼呢，不過眼看而已。
When goods increase, they are increased that eat them: and what good is there to the owners thereof, saving the beholding of them with their eyes?

5:12    勞碌的人，不拘吃多吃少，睡得香甜。富足的豐滿，卻不容他睡覺。
The sleep of a labouring man is sweet, whether he eat little or much: but the abundance of the rich will not suffer him to sleep.

5:13    我見日光之下，有一宗大禍患，就是財主積存貲財，反害自己。
There is a sore evil which I have seen under the sun, namely, riches kept for the owners thereof to their hurt.

5:14    因遭遇禍患，這些貲財就消滅。那人若生了兒子，手裡也一無所有。
But those riches perish by evil travail: and he begetteth a son, and there is nothing in his hand.

5:15    他怎樣從母胎赤身而來，也必照樣赤身而去。他所勞碌得來的。手中分毫不能帶去。
As he came forth of his mother's womb, naked shall he return to go as he came, and shall take nothing of his labour, which he may carry away in his hand.

5:16    他來的情形怎樣，他去的情形也怎樣。這也是一宗大禍患。他為風勞碌有什麼益處呢。
And this also is a sore evil, that in all points as he came, so shall he go: and what profit hath he that hath laboured for the wind?

5:17    並且他終身在黑暗中吃喝，多有煩惱，又有病患嘔氣。
All his days also he eateth in darkness, and he hath much sorrow and wrath with his sickness.

5:18    我所見為善為美的，就是人在神賜他一生的日子吃喝，享受日光之下勞碌得來的好處。因為這是他的分。
Behold that which I have seen: it is good and comely for one to eat and to drink, and to enjoy the good of all his labour that he taketh under the sun all the days of his life, which God giveth him: for it is his portion.

5:19    神賜人貲財豐富，使他能以吃用，能取自己的分，在他勞碌中喜樂。這乃是神的恩賜。
Every man also to whom God hath given riches and wealth, and hath given him power to eat thereof, and to take his portion, and to rejoice in his labour; this is the gift of God.

5:20    他不多思念自己一生的年日。因為神應他的心使他喜樂。
For he shall not much remember the days of his life; because God answereth him in the joy of his heart.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


6:1    我見日光之下有一宗禍患，重壓在人身上。
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, and it is common among men:

6:2    就是人蒙神賜他貲財，豐富，尊榮，以致他心裡所願的一樣都不缺，只是神使他不能吃用，反有外人來吃用。這是虛空，也是禍患。
A man to whom God hath given riches, wealth, and honour, so that he wanteth nothing for his soul of all that he desireth, yet God giveth him not power to eat thereof, but a stranger eateth it: this is vanity, and it is an evil disease.

6:3    人若生一百個兒子，活了許多歲數，以致他的年日甚多，心裡卻不得滿享福樂，又不得埋葬。據我說，那不到期而落的胎比他倒好。
If a man beget an hundred children, and live many years, so that the days of his years be many, and his soul be not filled with good, and also that he have no burial; I say, that an untimely birth is better than he.

6:4    因為虛虛而來，暗暗而去，名字被黑暗遮蔽。
For he cometh in with vanity, and departeth in darkness, and his name shall be covered with darkness.

6:5    並且沒有見過天日，也無知覺。這胎，比那人倒享安息。
Moreover he hath not seen the sun, nor known any thing: this hath more rest than the other.

6:6    那人雖然活千年，再活千年，卻不享福，眾人豈不都歸一個地方去嗎。
Yea, though he live a thousand years twice told, yet hath he seen no good: do not all go to one place?

6:7    人的勞碌都為口腹，心裡卻不知足。
All the labour of man is for his mouth, and yet the appetite is not filled.

6:8    這樣看來，智慧人比愚昧人有什麼長處呢。窮人在眾人面前知道如何行，有什麼長處呢。
For what hath the wise more than the fool? what hath the poor, that knoweth to walk before the living?

6:9    眼睛所看的，比心裡妄想的倒好。這也是虛空，也是捕風。
Better is the sight of the eyes than the wandering of the desire: this is also vanity and vexation of spirit.

6:10    先前所有的，早已起了名。並知道何為人。他也不能與那比自己力大的相爭。
That which hath been is named already, and it is known that it is man: neither may he contend with him that is mightier than he.

6:11    加增虛浮的事既多，這與人有什麼益處呢。
Seeing there be many things that increase vanity, what is man the better?

6:12    人一生虛度的日子，就如影兒經過。誰知道什麼與他有益呢。誰能告訴他身後在日光之下有什麼事呢。
For who knoweth what is good for man in this life, all the days of his vain life which he spendeth as a shadow? for who can tell a man what shall be after him under the sun?




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


7:1    名譽強如美好的膏油。人死的日子，勝過人生的日子。
A good name is better than precious ointment; and the day of death than the day of one's birth.

7:2    往遭喪的家去，強如往宴樂的家去，因為死是眾人的結局。活人也必將這事放在心上。
It is better to go to the house of mourning, than to go to the house of feasting: for that is the end of all men; and the living will lay it to his heart.

7:3    憂愁強如喜笑，因為面帶愁容，終必使心喜樂。
Sorrow is better than laughter: for by the sadness of the countenance the heart is made better.

7:4    智慧人的心，在遭喪之家。愚昧人的心，在快樂之家。
The heart of the wise is in the house of mourning; but the heart of fools is in the house of mirth.

7:5    聽智慧人的責備，強如聽愚昧人的歌唱。
It is better to hear the rebuke of the wise, than for a man to hear the song of fools.

7:6    愚昧人的笑聲，好像鍋下燒荊棘的爆聲，這也是虛空。
For as the crackling of thorns under a pot, so is the laughter of the fool: this also is vanity.

7:7    勒索使智慧人變為愚妄。賄賂能敗壞人的慧心。
Surely oppression maketh a wise man mad; and a gift destroyeth the heart.

7:8    事情的終局，強如事情的起頭。存心忍耐的，勝過居心驕傲的。
Better is the end of a thing than the beginning thereof: and the patient in spirit is better than the proud in spirit.

7:9    你不要心裡急躁惱怒，因為惱怒存在愚昧人的懷中。
Be not hasty in thy spirit to be angry: for anger resteth in the bosom of fools.

7:10    不要說，先前的日子強過如今的日子，是什麼緣故呢。你這樣問，不是出於智慧。
Say not thou, What is the cause that the former days were better than these? for thou dost not enquire wisely concerning this.

7:11    智慧和產業並好。而且見天日的人，得智慧更為有益。
Wisdom is good with an inheritance: and by it there is profit to them that see the sun.

7:12    因為智慧護庇人，好像銀錢護庇人一樣。惟獨智慧能保全智慧人的生命，這就是知識的益處。
For wisdom is a defence, and money is a defence: but the excellency of knowledge is, that wisdom giveth life to them that have it.

7:13    你要察看神的作為，因為神使為曲的，誰能變為直呢。
Consider the work of God: for who can make that straight, which he hath made crooked?

7:14    遇亨通的日子，你當喜樂。遭患難的日子，你當思想。因為神使這兩樣並列，為的是叫人查不出身後有什麼事。
In the day of prosperity be joyful, but in the day of adversity consider: God also hath set the one over against the other, to the end that man should find nothing after him.

7:15    有義人行義，反致滅亡。有惡人行惡，倒享長壽。這都是我在虛度之日中所見過的。
All things have I seen in the days of my vanity: there is a just man that perisheth in his righteousness, and there is a wicked man that prolongeth his life in his wickedness.

7:16    不要行義過分。也不要過於自逞智慧。何必自取敗亡呢。
Be not righteous over much; neither make thyself over wise: why shouldest thou destroy thyself ?

7:17    不要行惡過分。也不要為人愚昧。何必不到期而死呢。
Be not over much wicked, neither be thou foolish: why shouldest thou die before thy time?

7:18    你持守這個為美。那個也不要鬆手。因為敬畏神的人，必從這兩樣出來。
It is good that thou shouldest take hold of this; yea, also from this withdraw not thine hand: for he that feareth God shall come forth of them all.

7:19    智慧使有智慧的人，比城中十個官長更有能力。
Wisdom strengtheneth the wise more than ten mighty men which are in the city.

7:20    時常行善而不犯罪的義人，世上實在沒有。
For there is not a just man upon earth, that doeth good, and sinneth not.

7:21    人所說的一切話，你不要放在心上，恐怕聽見你的僕人咒詛你。
Also take no heed unto all words that are spoken; lest thou hear thy servant curse thee:

7:22    因為你心裡知道，自己也曾屢次咒詛別人。
For oftentimes also thine own heart knoweth that thou thyself likewise hast cursed others.

7:23    我曾用智慧試驗這一切事。我說，要得智慧，智慧卻離我遠。
All this have I proved by wisdom: I said, I will be wise; but it was far from me.

7:24    萬事之理離我甚遠，而且最深，誰能測透呢。
That which is far off, and exceeding deep, who can find it out?

7:25    我轉念，一心要知道，要考察，要尋求智慧，和萬事的理由。又要知道邪惡為愚昧，愚昧為狂妄。
I applied mine heart to know, and to search, and to seek out wisdom, and the reason of things, and to know the wickedness of folly, even of foolishness and madness:

7:26    我得知有等婦人，比死還苦，她的心是網羅，手是鎖練。凡蒙神喜悅的人，必能躲避她。
And I find more bitter than death the woman, whose heart is snares and nets, and her hands as bands: whoso pleaseth God shall escape from her; but the sinner shall be taken by her.

7:27    有罪的人，卻被她纏住了。
Behold, this have I found, saith the preacher, counting one by one, to find out the account:

7:28    傳道者說，看哪，一千男子中，我找到一個正直人。但眾女子中，沒有找到一個。我將這事一一比較，要尋求其理，我心仍要尋梢，卻未曾找到。
Which yet my soul seeketh, but I find not: one man among a thousand have I found; but a woman among all those have I not found.

7:29    我所找到的，只有一件，就是神造人原是正直，但他們尋出許多巧計。
Lo, this only have I found, that God hath made man upright; but they have sought out many inventions.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


8:1    誰如智慧人呢。誰知道事情的解釋呢。人的智慧使他的臉發光，並使他的臉上的暴氣改變。
Who is as the wise man? and who knoweth the interpretation of a thing? a man's wisdom maketh his face to shine, and the boldness of his face shall be changed.

8:2    我勸你遵守王的命令。既指神起誓，理當如此。
I counsel thee to keep the king's commandment, and that in regard of the oath of God.

8:3    不要急躁離開王的面前。不要固執行惡。因為他凡事都隨自己的心意而行。
Be not hasty to go out of his sight: stand not in an evil thing; for he doeth whatsoever pleaseth him.

8:4    王的話本有權力，誰敢問他說，你作什麼呢。
Where the word of a king is, there is power: and who may say unto him, What doest thou?

8:5    凡遵守命令的，必不經歷禍患。智慧人的心，能辨明時候和定理。（原文作審判下節同）
Whoso keepeth the commandment shall feel no evil thing: and a wise man's heart discerneth both time and judgment.

8:6    各樣事務成就，都有時候和定理。因為人的苦難，重壓在他身上。
Because to every purpose there is time and judgment, therefore the misery of man is great upon him.



8:7    他不知道將來的事，因為將來如何，誰能告訴他呢。
For he knoweth not that which shall be: for who can tell him when it shall be?

8:8    無人有權力掌管生命，將生命留住。也無人有權力掌管死期。這場爭戰，無人能免，邪惡也不能救那好行邪惡的人。
There is no man that hath power over the spirit to retain the spirit; neither hath he power in the day of death: and there is no discharge in that war; neither shall wickedness deliver those that are given to it.

8:9    這一切我都見過。也專心查考日光之下所作的一切事。有時這人管轄那人，令人受害。
All this have I seen, and applied my heart unto every work that is done under the sun: there is a time wherein one man ruleth over another to his own hurt.

8:10    我見惡人埋葬，歸入墳墓。又見行正直事的，離開聖地，在城中被人忘記。這也是虛空。
And so I saw the wicked buried, who had come and gone from the place of the holy, and they were forgotten in the city where they had so done: this is also vanity.

8:11    因為斷定罪名，不立刻施刑，所以世人滿心作惡。
Because sentence against an evil work is not executed speedily, therefore the heart of the sons of men is fully set in them to do evil.

8:12    罪人雖然作惡百次，倒享長久的年日。然而我準知道，敬畏神的，就是在他面前敬畏的人，終久必得福樂。
Though a sinner do evil an hundred times, and his days be prolonged, yet surely I know that it shall be well with them that fear God, which fear before him:

8:13    惡人卻不得福樂，也不得長久的年日。這年日好像影兒，因他不敬畏神。
But it shall not be well with the wicked, neither shall he prolong his days, which are as a shadow; because he feareth not before God.

8:14    世上有一件虛空的事，就是義人所遭遇的，反照惡人所行的。又有惡人所遭遇的，反照義人所行的。我說，這也是虛空。
There is a vanity which is done upon the earth; that there be just men, unto whom it happeneth according to the work of the wicked; again, there be wicked men, to whom it happeneth according to the work of the righteous: I said that this also is vanity.

8:15    我就稱讚快樂，原來人在日光之下，莫強如吃喝快樂。因為他在日光之下，神賜他的年日，要從勞碌中，時常享受所得的。
Then I commended mirth, because a man hath no better thing under the sun, than to eat, and to drink, and to be merry: for that shall abide with him of his labour the days of his life, which God giveth him under the sun.

8:16    我專心求智慧，要看世上所作的事。（有晝夜不睡覺，不合眼的）。
When I applied mine heart to know wisdom, and to see the business that is done upon the earth: (for also there is that neither day nor night seeth sleep with his eyes:)

8:17    我就看明神一切的作為。知道人查不出日光之下所作的事。任憑他費多少力尋查，都查不出來。就是智慧人雖想知道，也是查不出來。
Then I beheld all the work of God, that a man cannot find out the work that is done under the sun: because though a man labour to seek it out, yet he shall not find it; yea farther; though a wise man think to know it, yet shall he not be able to find it.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


9:1    我將一切事放在心上，詳細考究，就知道義人和智慧人，並他們的作為，都在神手中。或是愛，或是恨，都在他們的前面，人不能知道。
For all this I considered in my heart even to declare all this, that the righteous, and the wise, and their works, are in the hand of God: no man knoweth either love or hatred by all that is before them.

9:2    凡臨到眾人的事，都是一樣。義人和惡人，都遭遇一樣的事。好人，潔淨人和不潔淨人，獻祭的與不獻祭的，也是一樣。好人如何，罪人也如何。起誓的如何，怕起誓的也如何。
All things come alike to all: there is one event to the righteous, and to the wicked; to the good and to the clean, and to the unclean; to him that sacrificeth, and to him that sacrificeth not: as is the good, so is the sinner; and he that sweareth, as he that feareth an oath.

9:3    在日光之下所行的一切事上，有一件禍患，就是眾人所遭遇的，都是一樣。並且世人的心，充滿了惡。活著的時候心裡狂妄，後來就歸死人那裡去了。
This is an evil among all things that are done under the sun, that there is one event unto all: yea, also the heart of the sons of men is full of evil, and madness is in their heart while they live, and after that they go to the dead.

9:4    與一切活人相連的，那人還有指望。因為活著的狗，比死了的獅子更強。
For to him that is joined to all the living there is hope: for a living dog is better than a dead lion.

9:5    活著的人，知道必死。死了的人，毫無所知。也不在得賞賜，他們的名無人記念。
For the living know that they shall die: but the dead know not any thing, neither have they any more a reward; for the memory of them is forgotten.

9:6    他們的愛，他們的恨，他們的嫉妒，早都消滅了。在日光之下所行的一切事上，他們永不再有分了。
Also their love, and their hatred, and their envy, is now perished; neither have they any more a portion for ever in any thing that is done under the sun.

9:7    你只管去歡歡喜喜吃你的飯。心中快樂喝你的酒。因為神已經悅納你的作為。
Go thy way, eat thy bread with joy, and drink thy wine with a merry heart; for God now accepteth thy works.

9:8    你的衣服當時常潔白。你頭上也不要缺少膏油。
Let thy garments be always white; and let thy head lack no ointment.

9:9    在你一生虛空的年日，就是神賜你在日光之下虛空的年日，當同你所愛的妻，快活度日。因為那是你生前，在日光之下勞碌的事上所得的分。
Live joyfully with the wife whom thou lovest all the days of the life of thy vanity, which he hath given thee under the sun, all the days of thy vanity: for that is thy portion in this life, and in thy labour which thou takest under the sun.

9:10    凡你手所當作的事，要盡力去作。因為在你所必去的陰間，沒有工作，沒有謀算，沒有知識，也沒有智慧。
Whatsoever thy hand findeth to do, do it with thy might; for there is no work, nor device, nor knowledge, nor wisdom, in the grave, whither thou goest.

9:11    我又轉念，見日光之下，快跑的未必能嬴，力戰的未必得勝，智慧的未必得糧食，明哲的未必得貲財，靈巧的未必得喜悅。所臨到眾人的，是在乎當時的機會。
I returned, and saw under the sun, that the race is not to the swift, nor the battle to the strong, neither yet bread to the wise, nor yet riches to men of understanding, nor yet favour to men of skill; but time and chance happeneth to them all.

9:12    原來人也不知道自己的定期。魚被惡網圈住，鳥被網羅捉住，禍患忽然臨到的時候，世人陷在其中，也是如此。
For man also knoweth not his time: as the fishes that are taken in an evil net, and as the birds that are caught in the snare; so are the sons of men snared in an evil time, when it falleth suddenly upon them.

9:13    我見日光之下有一樣智慧，據我看乃是廣大，
This wisdom have I seen also under the sun, and it seemed great unto me:

9:14    就是有一小城，其中的人數稀少，有大君王來攻擊，修築營壘，將城圍困。
There was a little city, and few men within it; and there came a great king against it, and besieged it, and built great bulwarks against it:

9:15    城中有一個貧窮的智慧人，他用智慧救了那城，卻沒有人記念那窮人。
Now there was found in it a poor wise man, and he by his wisdom delivered the city; yet no man remembered that same poor man.

9:16    我就說，智慧勝過勇力。然而那貧窮人的智慧，被人藐視，他的話也無人聽從。
Then said I, Wisdom is better than strength: nevertheless the poor man's wisdom is despised, and his words are not heard.

9:17    寧可在安靜之中聽智慧人的言語，不聽掌管愚昧人的喊聲。
The words of wise men are heard in quiet more than the cry of him that ruleth among fools.

9:18    智慧勝過打仗的兵器。但一個罪人，能敗壞許多善事。
Wisdom is better than weapons of war: but one sinner destroyeth much good.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


10:1    死蒼蠅，使作香的膏油發出臭氣。這樣，一點愚昧，也能敗壞智慧和尊榮。
Dead flies cause the ointment of the apothecary to send forth a stinking savour: so doth a little folly him that is in reputation for wisdom and honour.



10:2    智慧人的心居右。愚昧人的心居左。
A wise man's heart is at his right hand; but a fool's heart at his left.

10:3    並且愚昧人行路，顯出無知。對眾人說，他是愚昧人。
Yea also, when he that is a fool walketh by the way, his wisdom faileth him, and he saith to every one that he is a fool.

10:4    掌權者的心，若向你發怒，不要離開你的本位，因為柔和能免大過。
If the spirit of the ruler rise up against thee, leave not thy place; for yielding pacifieth great offences.

10:5    我見日光之下，有一件禍患，似乎出於掌權的錯誤，
There is an evil which I have seen under the sun, as an error which proceedeth from the ruler:

10:6    就是愚昧人立在高位。富足人坐在低位。
Folly is set in great dignity, and the rich sit in low place.

10:7    我見過僕人騎馬，王子像僕人在地上步行。
I have seen servants upon horses, and princes walking as servants upon the earth.

10:8    挖陷坑的，自己必掉在其中。拆牆垣的，必被蛇所咬。
He that diggeth a pit shall fall into it; and whoso breaketh an hedge, a serpent shall bite him.

10:9    鑿開（或作挪移）石頭的，必受損傷。擘開木頭的，必遭危險。
Whoso removeth stones shall be hurt therewith; and he that cleaveth wood shall be endangered thereby.

10:10    鐵器鈍了，若不將刃磨快，就必多費氣力。但得智慧指教，便有益處。
If the iron be blunt, and he do not whet the edge, then must he put to more strength: but wisdom is profitable to direct.

10:11    未行法術以先，蛇若咬人，後行法術也是無益。
Surely the serpent will bite without enchantment; and a babbler is no better.

10:12    智慧人的口，說出恩言。愚昧人的嘴，吞滅自己。
The words of a wise man's mouth are gracious; but the lips of a fool will swallow up himself.

10:13    他口中的言語，起頭是愚昧。他話的末尾，是奸惡的狂妄。
The beginning of the words of his mouth is foolishness: and the end of his talk is mischievous madness.

10:14    愚昧人多有言語，人卻不知將來有什麼事。他身後的事，誰能告訴他呢。
A fool also is full of words: a man cannot tell what shall be; and what shall be after him, who can tell him?

10:15    凡愚昧人，他的勞碌使自己睏乏。因為連進城的路他也不知道。
The labour of the foolish wearieth every one of them, because he knoweth not how to go to the city.

10:16    邦國阿，你的王若是孩童，你的群臣早晨宴樂，你就有禍了。
Woe to thee, O land, when thy king is a child, and thy princes eat in the morning!

10:17    邦國阿，你的王若是貴胄之子，你的群臣按時吃喝，為要捕力，不為酒醉，你就有福了。
Blessed art thou, O land, when thy king is the son of nobles, and thy princes eat in due season, for strength, and not for drunkenness!

10:18    因人懶惰，房頂塌下。因人手懶，房屋滴漏。
By much slothfulness the building decayeth; and through idleness of the hands the house droppeth through.

10:19    設擺筵席，是為喜笑。酒能使人快活，錢能叫萬事應心。
A feast is made for laughter, and wine maketh merry: but money answereth all things.

10:20    你不可咒詛君王，也不可心懷此念。在你臥房也不可咒詛富戶。因為空中的鳥，必傳揚這聲音。有翅膀的，也必述說這事。
Curse not the king, no not in thy thought; and curse not the rich in thy bedchamber: for a bird of the air shall carry the voice, and that which hath wings shall tell the matter.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


11:1    當將你的糧食撒在水面，因為日久必能得著。
Cast thy bread upon the waters: for thou shalt find it after many days.

11:2    你要分給七人，或分給八人，因為你不知道將來有什麼災禍臨到地上。
Give a portion to seven, and also to eight; for thou knowest not what evil shall be upon the earth.

11:3    雲若滿了雨，就必傾倒在地上。樹若向南倒，或向北倒，樹倒在何處，就存在何處。
If the clouds be full of rain, they empty themselves upon the earth: and if the tree fall toward the south, or toward the north, in the place where the tree falleth, there it shall be.

11:4    看風的必不撒種。望雲的必不收割。
He that observeth the wind shall not sow; and he that regardeth the clouds shall not reap.

11:5    風從何道來，骨頭在懷孕婦人的胎中如何長成，你尚且不得知道，這樣，行萬事之神的作為，你更不得知道。
As thou knowest not what is the way of the spirit, nor how the bones do grow in the womb of her that is with child: even so thou knowest not the works of God who maketh all.

11:6    早晨要撒你的種，晚上也不歇你的手，因為你不知那一樣發旺，或是早撒的，或是晚撒的，或是兩樣都好。
In the morning sow thy seed, and in the evening withhold not thine hand: for thou knowest not whether shall prosper, either this or that, or whether they both shall be alike good.

11:7    光本是佳美的，眼見日光也是可悅的。
Truly the light is sweet, and a pleasant thing it is for the eyes to behold the sun:

11:8    人活多年，就當快樂多年。然而也當想到黑暗的日子，因為這日子必多，所要來的都是虛空。
But if a man live many years, and rejoice in them all; yet let him remember the days of darkness; for they shall be many. All that cometh is vanity.

11:9    少年人哪，你在幼年時當快樂。在幼年的日子，使你的心歡暢，行你心所願行的，看你眼所愛看的，卻要知道，為這一切的事，神必審問你。
Rejoice, O young man, in thy youth; and let thy heart cheer thee in the days of thy youth, and walk in the ways of thine heart, and in the sight of thine eyes: but know thou, that for all these things God will bring thee into judgment.

11:10    所以你當從心中除掉愁煩。從肉體克去邪惡。因為一生的開端，和幼年之時，都是虛空的。
Therefore remove sorrow from thy heart, and put away evil from thy flesh: for childhood and youth are vanity.




舊約 -- 傳道書(Ecclesiastes) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


12:1    你趁著年幼，衰敗的日子尚未來到，就是你所說，我毫無喜樂的那些年日未曾臨近之先，當記念造你的主。
Remember now thy Creator in the days of thy youth, while the evil days come not, nor the years draw nigh, when thou shalt say, I have no pleasure in them;

12:2    不要等到日頭，光明，月亮，星宿，變為黑暗，雨後雲彩反回，
While the sun, or the light, or the moon, or the stars, be not darkened, nor the clouds return after the rain:

12:3    看守房屋的發顫，有力的屈身，推磨的稀少就止息，從窗戶往外看的都昏暗，
In the day when the keepers of the house shall tremble, and the strong men shall bow themselves, and the grinders cease because they are few, and those that look out of the windows be darkened,

12:4    街門關閉，推磨的響聲微小，雀鳥一叫，人就起來，唱歌的女子，也都衰微，
And the doors shall be shut in the streets, when the sound of the grinding is low, and he shall rise up at the voice of the bird, and all the daughters of musick shall be brought low;

12:5    人怕高處，路上有驚慌，杏樹開花，蚱蜢成為重擔，人所願的也都廢掉，因為人歸他永遠的家，弔喪的在街上往來，
Also when they shall be afraid of that which is high, and fears shall be in the way, and the almond tree shall flourish, and the grasshopper shall be a burden, and desire shall fail: because man goeth to his long home, and the mourners go about the streets:

12:6    銀鏈折斷，金罐破裂，瓶子在泉旁損壞，水輪在井口破爛，
Or ever the silver cord be loosed, or the golden bowl be broken, or the pitcher be broken at the fountain, or the wheel broken at the cistern.

12:7    塵土仍歸於地，靈仍歸於賜靈的神。
Then shall the dust return to the earth as it was: and the spirit shall return unto God who gave it.

12:8    傳道者說，虛空的虛空，凡事都是虛空。
Vanity of vanities, saith the preacher; all is vanity.

12:9    在者，傳道者因為有智慧，仍將知識教訓眾人。又默想，又考查，又陳說許多箴言。
And moreover, because the preacher was wise, he still taught the people knowledge; yea, he gave good heed, and sought out, and set in order many proverbs.

12:10    傳道者專心尋求可喜悅的言語，是憑正直寫的誠實話。
The preacher sought to find out acceptable words: and that which was written was upright, even words of truth.



12:11    智慧人的言語，好像刺棍。會中之師的言語，又像釘穩的釘子。都是一個牧者所賜的。
The words of the wise are as goads, and as nails fastened by the masters of assemblies, which are given from one shepherd.

12:12    我兒，還有一層，你當受勸戒。著書多，沒有窮盡。讀書多，身體疲倦。
And further, by these, my son, be admonished: of making many books there is no end; and much study is a weariness of the flesh.

12:13    這些事都已聽見了。總意就是敬畏神，謹守他的誡命，這是人所當盡的本分。（或作這是眾人的本分）
Let us hear the conclusion of the whole matter: Fear God, and keep his commandments: for this is the whole duty of man.

12:14    因為人所作的事，連一切隱藏的事，無論是善是惡，神都必審問。
For God shall bring every work into judgment, with every secret thing, whether it be good, or whether it be evil.




