
舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


1:1    所羅門的歌，是歌中的雅歌。
The song of songs, which is Solomon's.

1:2    願他用口與我親嘴。因你的愛情比酒更美。
Let him kiss me with the kisses of his mouth: for thy love is better than wine.

1:3    你的膏油馨香。你的名如同倒出來的香膏，所以眾童女都愛你。
Because of the savour of thy good ointments thy name is as ointment poured forth, therefore do the virgins love thee.

1:4    願你吸引我，我們就快跑跟隨你。王帶我進了內室，我們必因你歡喜快樂。我們要稱讚你的愛情，勝似稱讚美酒。他們愛你是理所當然的。
Draw me, we will run after thee: the king hath brought me into his chambers: we will be glad and rejoice in thee, we will remember thy love more than wine: the upright love thee.

1:5    耶路撒冷的眾女子阿，我雖然黑，卻是秀美，如同基達的帳棚，好像所羅門的幔子。
I am black, but comely, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, as the tents of Kedar, as the curtains of Solomon.

1:6    不要因日頭把我晒黑了，就輕看我。我同母的弟兄向我發怒，他們使我看守葡萄園，我自己的葡萄園卻沒有看守。
Look not upon me, because I am black, because the sun hath looked upon me: my mother's children were angry with me; they made me the keeper of the vineyards; but mine own vineyard have I not kept.

1:7    我心所愛的阿，求你告訴我，你在何處牧羊，晌午在何處使羊歇臥。我何必在你同伴的羊群旁邊，好像蒙著臉的人呢。
Tell me, O thou whom my soul loveth, where thou feedest, where thou makest thy flock to rest at noon: for why should I be as one that turneth aside by the flocks of thy companions?

1:8    你這女子中極美麗的，你若不知道，只管跟隨羊群的腳蹤去，把你的山羊羔牧放在牧人帳棚的旁邊。
If thou know not, O thou fairest among women, go thy way forth by the footsteps of the flock, and feed thy kids beside the shepherds' tents.

1:9    我的佳偶，我將你比法老車上套的駿馬。
I have compared thee, O my love, to a company of horses in Pharaoh's chariots.

1:10    你的兩腮因髮辮而秀美，你的頸項因珠串而華麗。
Thy cheeks are comely with rows of jewels, thy neck with chains of gold.

1:11    我們要為你編上金辮，鑲上銀釘。
We will make thee borders of gold with studs of silver.

1:12    王正坐席的時候，我的哪噠香膏發出香味。
While the king sitteth at his table, my spikenard sendeth forth the smell thereof.

1:13    我以我的良人為一袋沒藥，常在我懷中。
A bundle of myrrh is my well-beloved unto me; he shall lie all night betwixt my breasts.

1:14    我以我的良人為一棵鳳仙花，在隱基底葡萄園中。
My beloved is unto me as a cluster of camphire in the vineyards of Engedi.

1:15    我的佳偶，你甚美麗，你甚美麗，你的眼好像鴿子眼。
Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; thou hast doves' eyes.

1:16    我的良人哪，你甚美麗可愛，我們以青草為床榻，
Behold, thou art fair, my beloved, yea, pleasant: also our bed is green.

1:17    以香柏樹為房屋的楝樑，以松樹為椽子。
The beams of our house are cedar, and our rafters of fir.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


2:1    我是沙崙的玫瑰花（或作水仙花），是谷中的百合花。
I am the rose of Sharon, and the lily of the valleys.

2:2    我的佳偶在女子中，好像百合花在荊棘內。
As the lily among thorns, so is my love among the daughters.

2:3    我的良人在男子中，如同蘋果樹在樹林中。我歡歡喜喜坐在他的蔭下，嘗他果子的滋味，覺得甘甜。
As the apple tree among the trees of the wood, so is my beloved among the sons. I sat down under his shadow with great delight, and his fruit was sweet to my taste.

2:4    他帶我入筵宴所，以愛為旗在我以上。
He brought me to the banqueting house, and his banner over me was love.

2:5    求你們給我葡萄乾增補我力，給我蘋果暢快我心，因我思愛成病。
Stay me with flagons, comfort me with apples: for I am sick of love.

2:6    他的左手在我頭下，他的右手將我抱住。
His left hand is under my head, and his right hand doth embrace me.

2:7    耶路撒冷的眾女子阿，我指著羚羊或田野的母鹿，囑咐你們，不要驚動，不要叫醒我所親愛的，等他自己情願（不要叫醒云云或作不要激動愛情等它自發）。
I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes, and by the hinds of the field, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love, till he please.

2:8    聽阿，是我良人的聲音。看哪，他躥山越嶺而來。
The voice of my beloved! behold, he cometh leaping upon the mountains, skipping upon the hills.

2:9    我的良人好像羚羊，或像小鹿。他站在我們牆壁後，從窗戶往裡觀看，從窗櫺往裡窺探。
My beloved is like a roe or a young hart: behold, he standeth behind our wall, he looketh forth at the windows, shewing himself through the lattice.

2:10    我良人對我說，我的佳偶，我的美人，起來，與我同去。
My beloved spake, and said unto me, Rise up, my love, my fair one, and come away.

2:11    因為冬天已往。雨水止住過去了。
For, lo, the winter is past, the rain is over and gone;

2:12    地上百花開放。百鳥嗚叫的時候（或作修理葡萄樹的時候）已經來到，斑鳩的聲音在我們境內也聽見了。
The flowers appear on the earth; the time of the singing of birds is come, and the voice of the turtle is heard in our land;

2:13    無花果樹的果子漸漸成熟，葡萄樹開花放香。我的佳偶，我的美人，起來，與我同去。
The fig tree putteth forth her green figs, and the vines with the tender grape give a good smell. Arise, my love, my fair one, and come away.

2:14    我的鴿子阿，你在磐石穴中，在陡巖的隱密處。求你容我得見你的面貌，得聽你的聲音。因為你的聲音柔和，你的面貌秀美。
O my dove, that art in the clefts of the rock, in the secret places of the stairs, let me see thy countenance, let me hear thy voice; for sweet is thy voice, and thy countenance is comely.

2:15    要給我們擒拿狐狸，就是毀壞葡萄園的小狐狸。因為我們的葡萄正在開花。
Take us the foxes, the little foxes, that spoil the vines: for our vines have tender grapes.

2:16    良人屬我，我也屬他。他在百合花中牧放群羊
My beloved is mine, and I am his: he feedeth among the lilies.

2:17    我的良人哪，求你等到天起涼風，日影飛去的時候，你要轉回，好像羚羊，或像小鹿在位元山上。
Until the day break, and the shadows flee away, turn, my beloved, and be thou like a roe or a young hart upon the mountains of Bether.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


3:1    我夜間躺臥在床上，尋梢我心所愛的。我尋梢他，卻尋不見。
By night on my bed I sought him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but I found him not.

3:2    我說，我要起來，遊行城中，在街市上，在寬闊處，尋梢我心所愛的。我尋梢他，卻尋不見。
I will rise now, and go about the city in the streets, and in the broad ways I will seek him whom my soul loveth: I sought him, but I found him not.

3:3    城中巡邏看守的人遇見我。我問他們，你們看見我心所愛的沒有。
The watchmen that go about the city found me: to whom I said, Saw ye him whom my soul loveth?

3:4    我剛離開他們，就遇見我心所愛的。我拉住他，不容他走，領他入我母家，到懷我者的內室。
It was but a little that I passed from them, but I found him whom my soul loveth: I held him, and would not let him go, until I had brought him into my mother's house, and into the chamber of her that conceived me.

3:5    耶路撒冷的眾女子阿，我指著羚羊，或田野的母鹿囑咐你們，不要驚動，不要叫醒我所親愛的，等他自己情願（不要叫醒云云或作不要激動愛情等它自發）。
I charge you, O ye daughters of Jerusalem, by the roes, and by the hinds of the field, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love, till he please.

3:6    那從曠野上來，形狀如煙柱，沒藥和乳香並商人各樣香粉薰的是誰呢。
Who is this that cometh out of the wilderness like pillars of smoke, perfumed with myrrh and frankincense, with all powders of the merchant?

3:7    看哪，是所羅門的轎。四圍有六十個勇士，都是以色列中的勇士。
Behold his bed, which is Solomon's; threescore valiant men are about it, of the valiant of Israel.

3:8    手都持刀，善於爭戰，腰間佩刀，防備夜間有驚慌。
They all hold swords, being expert in war: every man hath his sword upon his thigh because of fear in the night.

3:9    所羅門王用黎巴嫩木，為自己製造一乘華轎。
King Solomon made himself a chariot of the wood of Lebanon.

3:10    轎柱是用銀做的，轎底是用金做的。坐墊是紫色的，其中所鋪的乃耶路撒冷眾女子的愛情。
He made the pillars thereof of silver, the bottom thereof of gold, the covering of it of purple, the midst thereof being paved with love, for the daughters of Jerusalem.

3:11    錫安的眾女子阿，你們出去觀看所羅門王，頭戴冠冕，是在他婚筵的日子，心中喜樂的時候，他母親給他戴上的。
Go forth, O ye daughters of Zion, and behold king Solomon with the crown wherewith his mother crowned him in the day of his espousals, and in the day of the gladness of his heart.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


4:1    我的佳偶，你甚美麗，你甚美麗。你的眼在帕子內好像鴿子眼。你的頭髮如同山羊群臥在基列山旁。
Behold, thou art fair, my love; behold, thou art fair; thou hast doves' eyes within thy locks: thy hair is as a flock of goats, that appear from mount Gilead.

4:2    你的牙齒如新剪毛的一群母羊，洗淨上來，個個都有雙生，沒有一隻喪掉子的。
Thy teeth are like a flock of sheep that are even shorn, which came up from the washing; whereof every one bear twins, and none is barren among them.

4:3    你的脣好像一條硃紅線，你的嘴也秀美。你的兩太陽在帕子內，如同一塊石榴。
Thy lips are like a thread of scarlet, and thy speech is comely: thy temples are like a piece of a pomegranate within thy locks.

4:4    你的頸項好像大衛建造收藏軍器的高臺，其上懸掛一千盾牌，都是勇士的藤牌。
Thy neck is like the tower of David builded for an armoury, whereon there hang a thousand bucklers, all shields of mighty men.

4:5    你的兩乳好像百合花中吃草的一對小鹿，就是母鹿雙生的。
Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins, which feed among the lilies.

4:6    我要往沒藥山和乳香岡去，直等到天起涼風，日影飛去的時候回來。
Until the day break, and the shadows flee away, I will get me to the mountain of myrrh, and to the hill of frankincense.

4:7    我的佳偶，你全然美麗，毫無瑕疵。
Thou art all fair, my love; there is no spot in thee.

4:8    我的新婦，求你與我一同離開黎巴嫩，與我一同離開黎巴嫩。從亞瑪拿頂，從示尼珥與黑門頂，從有獅子的洞，從有豹子的山往下觀看。
Come with me from Lebanon, my spouse, with me from Lebanon: look from the top of Amana, from the top of Shenir and Hermon, from the lions' dens, from the mountains of the leopards.

4:9    我妹子，我新婦，你奪了我的心。你用眼一看，用你項上的一條金鍊，奪了我的心。
Thou hast ravished my heart, my sister, my spouse; thou hast ravished my heart with one of thine eyes, with one chain of thy neck.

4:10    我妹子，我新婦，你的愛情何其美。你的愛情比酒更美。你膏油的香氣勝過一切香品。
How fair is thy love, my sister, my spouse! how much better is thy love than wine! and the smell of thine ointments than all spices!



4:11    我新婦，你的嘴脣滴蜜。好像蜂房滴蜜。你的舌下有蜜，有奶。你衣服的香氣如黎巴嫩的香氣。
Thy lips, O my spouse, drop as the honeycomb: honey and milk are under thy tongue; and the smell of thy garments is like the smell of Lebanon.

4:12    我妹子，我新婦，乃是關鎖的園，禁閉的井，封閉的泉源。
A garden inclosed is my sister, my spouse; a spring shut up, a fountain sealed.

4:13    你園內所種的結了石榴，有佳美的果子，並鳳仙花與哪噠樹。
Thy plants are an orchard of pomegranates, with pleasant fruits; camphire, with spikenard,

4:14    有哪噠和番紅花，菖蒲和桂樹，並各樣乳香木，沒藥，沉香，與一切上等的果品。
Spikenard and saffron; calamus and cinnamon, with all trees of frankincense; myrrh and aloes, with all the chief spices:

4:15    你是園中的泉，活水的井，從黎巴嫩流下來的溪水。
A fountain of gardens, a well of living waters, and streams from Lebanon.

4:16    北風阿，興起。南風阿，吹來。吹在我的園內，使其中的香氣發出來。願我的良人進入自己園裡，吃他佳美的果子。
Awake, O north wind; and come, thou south; blow upon my garden, that the spices thereof may flow out. Let my beloved come into his garden, and eat his pleasant fruits.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


5:1    我妹子，我新婦，我進了我的園中，採了我的沒藥和香料，吃了我的蜜房和蜂蜜。喝了我的酒和奶。我的朋友們，請吃，我所親愛的，請喝，且多多的喝。
I am come into my garden, my sister, my spouse: I have gathered my myrrh with my spice; I have eaten my honeycomb with my honey; I have drunk my wine with my milk: eat, O friends; drink, yea, drink abundantly, O beloved.

5:2    我身睡臥，我心卻醒。這是我良人的聲音。他敲門，說，我的妹子，我的佳偶，我的鴿子，我的完全人，求你給我開門，因我的頭滿了露水，我的頭髮被夜露滴溼。
I sleep, but my heart waketh: it is the voice of my beloved that knocketh, saying, Open to me, my sister, my love, my dove, my undefiled: for my head is filled with dew, and my locks with the drops of the night.

5:3    我回答說，我脫了衣裳，怎能再穿上呢。我洗了腳，怎能再玷汙呢。
I have put off my coat; how shall I put it on? I have washed my feet; how shall I defile them?

5:4    我的良人從門孔裡伸進手來，我便因他動了心。
My beloved put in his hand by the hole of the door, and my bowels were moved for him.

5:5    我起來，要給我良人開門。我的兩手滴下沒藥，我的指頭有沒藥汁滴在門閂上。
I rose up to open to my beloved; and my hands dropped with myrrh, and my fingers with sweet smelling myrrh, upon the handles of the lock.

5:6    我給我的良人開了門。我的良人卻已轉身走了。他說話的時候，我神不守舍。我尋梢他，竟尋不見。我呼叫他，他卻不回答。
I opened to my beloved; but my beloved had withdrawn himself, and was gone: my soul failed when he spake: I sought him, but I could not find him; I called him, but he gave me no answer.

5:7    城中巡邏看守的人遇見我，打了我，傷了我。看守城牆的人奪去我的披肩。
The watchmen that went about the city found me, they smote me, they wounded me; the keepers of the walls took away my veil from me.

5:8    耶路撒冷的眾女子阿，我囑咐你們。若遇見我的良人，要告訴他，我因思愛成病。
I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, if ye find my beloved, that ye tell him, that I am sick of love.

5:9    你這女子中極美麗的，你的良人，比別人的良人有何強處。你的良人，比別人的良人有何強處，你就這樣囑咐我們。
What is thy beloved more than another beloved, O thou fairest among women? what is thy beloved more than another beloved, that thou dost so charge us?

5:10    我的良人，白而且紅，超乎萬人之上。
My beloved is white and ruddy, the chiefest among ten thousand.

5:11    他的頭像至精的金子。他的頭髮厚密累垂，黑如烏鴉。
His head is as the most fine gold, his locks are bushy, and black as a raven.

5:12    他的眼如溪水旁的鴿子眼，用奶洗淨，安得合式。
His eyes are as the eyes of doves by the rivers of waters, washed with milk, and fitly set.

5:13    他的兩腮如香花畦，如香草臺。他的嘴脣像百合花，且滴下沒藥汁。
His cheeks are as a bed of spices, as sweet flowers: his lips like lilies, dropping sweet smelling myrrh.

5:14    他的兩手好像金管，鑲嵌水蒼玉。他的身體如同雕刻的象牙，周圍鑲嵌藍寶石。
His hands are as gold rings set with the beryl: his belly is as bright ivory overlaid with sapphires.

5:15    他的腿好像白玉石柱，安在精金座上。他的形狀如黎巴嫩，且佳美如香柏樹。
His legs are as pillars of marble, set upon sockets of fine gold: his countenance is as Lebanon, excellent as the cedars.

5:16    他的口極其甘甜。他全然可愛。耶路撒冷的眾女子阿，這是我的良人，這是我的朋友。
His mouth is most sweet: yea, he is altogether lovely. This is my beloved, and this is my friend, O daughters of Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


6:1    你這女子中極美麗的，你的良人往何處去了。你的良人轉向何處去了，我們好與你同去尋梢他。
Whither is thy beloved gone, O thou fairest among women? whither is thy beloved turned aside? that we may seek him with thee.

6:2    我的良人下入自己園中，到香花畦，在園內牧放群羊，採百合花。
My beloved is gone down into his garden, to the beds of spices, to feed in the gardens, and to gather lilies.

6:3    我屬我的良人，我的良人也屬我。他在百合花中牧放群羊。
I am my beloved's, and my beloved is mine: he feedeth among the lilies.

6:4    我的佳偶阿，你美麗如得撒，秀美如耶路撒冷，威武如展開旌旗的軍隊。
Thou art beautiful, O my love, as Tirzah, comely as Jerusalem, terrible as an army with banners.

6:5    求你掉轉眼目不看我，因你的眼目使我驚亂。你的頭髮如同山羊群臥在基列山旁。
Turn away thine eyes from me, for they have overcome me: thy hair is as a flock of goats that appear from Gilead.

6:6    你的牙齒如一群母羊，洗淨上來。個個都有雙生，沒有一隻喪掉子的。
Thy teeth are as a flock of sheep which go up from the washing, whereof every one beareth twins, and there is not one barren among them.

6:7    你的兩太陽在帕子內，如同一塊石榴。
As a piece of a pomegranate are thy temples within thy locks.

6:8    有六十王后八十妃嬪，並有無數的童女。
There are threescore queens, and fourscore concubines, and virgins without number.

6:9    我的鴿子，我的完全人，只有這一個是她母親獨生的。是生養她者所寶愛的。眾女子見了，就稱她有福。王后妃嬪見了，也讚美她。
My dove, my undefiled is but one; she is the only one of her mother, she is the choice one of her that bare her. The daughters saw her, and blessed her; yea, the queens and the concubines, and they praised her.

6:10    那向外觀看，如晨光發現，美麗如月亮，皎潔如日頭，威武如展開旌旗軍隊的是誰呢。
Who is she that looketh forth as the morning, fair as the moon, clear as the sun, and terrible as an army with banners?

6:11    我下入核桃園，要看谷中青綠的植物，要看葡萄發芽沒有，石榴開花沒有。
I went down into the garden of nuts to see the fruits of the valley, and to see whether the vine flourished, and the pomegranates budded.

6:12    不知不覺，我的心將我安置在我尊長的車中。
Or ever I was aware, my soul made me like the chariots of Amminadib.

6:13    回來，回來，書拉密女。你回來，你回來，使我們得觀看你。你們為何要觀看書拉密女，像觀看瑪哈念跳舞的呢。
Return, return, O Shulamite; return, return, that we may look upon thee. What will ye see in the Shulamite? As it were the company of two armies.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


7:1    王女阿，你的腳在鞋中何其美好。你的大腿圓潤，好像美玉，是巧匠的手做成的。
How beautiful are thy feet with shoes, O prince's daughter! the joints of thy thighs are like jewels, the work of the hands of a cunning workman.

7:2    你的肚臍如圓杯，不缺調和的酒。你的腰如一堆麥子，周圍有百合花。
Thy navel is like a round goblet, which wanteth not liquor: thy belly is like an heap of wheat set about with lilies.

7:3    你的兩乳好像一對小鹿，就是母鹿雙生的。
Thy two breasts are like two young roes that are twins.

7:4    你的頸項如象牙臺。你的眼目像希實本，巴特拉並門旁的水池。你的鼻子彷佛朝大馬士革的黎巴嫩塔。
Thy neck is as a tower of ivory; thine eyes like the fishpools in Heshbon, by the gate of Bathrabbim: thy nose is as the tower of Lebanon which looketh toward Damascus.

7:5    你的頭在你身上好像迦密山。你頭上的發是紫黑色。王的心因這下垂的發綹繫住了。
Thine head upon thee is like Carmel, and the hair of thine head like purple; the king is held in the galleries.

7:6    我所愛的，你何其美好。何其可悅，使人歡暢喜樂。
How fair and how pleasant art thou, O love, for delights!

7:7    你的身量好像棕樹。你的兩乳如同其上的果子，累累下垂。
This thy stature is like to a palm tree, and thy breasts to clusters of grapes.

7:8    我說，我要上這棕樹，抓住枝子。願你的兩乳好像葡萄累累下垂，你鼻子的氣味香如蘋果。
I said, I will go up to the palm tree, I will take hold of the boughs thereof: now also thy breasts shall be as clusters of the vine, and the smell of thy nose like apples;

7:9    你的口如上好的酒，女子說，為我的良人下嚥舒暢，流入睡覺人的嘴中。
And the roof of thy mouth like the best wine for my beloved, that goeth down sweetly, causing the lips of those that are asleep to speak.

7:10    我屬我的良人，他也戀慕我。
I am my beloved's, and his desire is toward me.

7:11    我的良人，來吧，你我可以往田間去。你我可以在村莊住宿。
Come, my beloved, let us go forth into the field; let us lodge in the villages.

7:12    我們早晨起來往葡萄園去，看看葡萄發芽開花沒有，石榴放蕊沒有。我在那裡要將我的愛情給你。
Let us get up early to the vineyards; let us see if the vine flourish, whether the tender grape appear, and the pomegranates bud forth: there will I give thee my loves.

7:13    風茄放香，在我們的門內有各樣新陳佳美的果子。我的良人，這都是我為你存留的。
The mandrakes give a smell, and at our gates are all manner of pleasant fruits, new and old, which I have laid up for thee, O my beloved.




舊約 -- 雅歌(Song of Songs) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 8 章 )    　


8:1    巴不得你像我的兄弟，像吃我母親奶的兄弟。我在外頭遇見你就與你親嘴，誰也不輕看我。
O that thou wert as my brother, that sucked the breasts of my mother! when I should find thee without, I would kiss thee; yea, I should not be despised.

8:2    我必引導你，領你進我母親的家。我可以領受教訓，也就使你喝石榴汁釀的香酒。
I would lead thee, and bring thee into my mother's house, who would instruct me: I would cause thee to drink of spiced wine of the juice of my pomegranate.

8:3    他的左手必在我頭下，他的右手必將我抱住。
His left hand should be under my head, and his right hand should embrace me.

8:4    耶路撒冷的眾女子阿，我囑咐你們，不要驚動，不要叫醒我所親愛的，等他自己情願（不要叫醒云云或作不要激動愛情等它自發）。
I charge you, O daughters of Jerusalem, that ye stir not up, nor awake my love, until he please.

8:5    那靠著良人從曠野上來的，是誰呢。我在蘋果樹下叫醒你。你母親在那裡為你劬勞，生養你的在那裡為你劬勞。
Who is this that cometh up from the wilderness, leaning upon her beloved? I raised thee up under the apple tree: there thy mother brought thee forth: there she brought thee forth that bare thee.

8:6    求你將我放在心上如印記，帶在你臂上如戳記。因為愛情如死之堅強。嫉恨如陰間之殘忍。所發的電光，是火焰的電光，是耶和華的烈焰。
Set me as a seal upon thine heart, as a seal upon thine arm: for love is strong as death; jealousy is cruel as the grave: the coals thereof are coals of fire, which hath a most vehement flame.

8:7    愛情眾水不能息滅，大水也不能淹沒。若有人拿家中所有的財寶要換愛情，就全被藐視。
Many waters cannot quench love, neither can the floods drown it: if a man would give all the substance of his house for love, it would utterly be contemned.

8:8    我們有一小妹，她的兩乳尚未長成。人來提親的日子，我們當為她怎樣辦理。
We have a little sister, and she hath no breasts: what shall we do for our sister in the day when she shall be spoken for?

8:9    她若是牆，我們要在其上建造銀塔。她若是門，我們要用香柏木板圍護她。
If she be a wall, we will build upon her a palace of silver: and if she be a door, we will inclose her with boards of cedar.

8:10    我是牆，我兩乳像其上的樓。那時，我在他眼中像得平安的人。
I am a wall, and my breasts like towers: then was I in his eyes as one that found favour.

8:11    所羅門在巴力哈們有一葡萄園。他將這葡萄園交給看守的人，為其中的果子，必交一千舍客勒銀子。
Solomon had a vineyard at Baalhamon; he let out the vineyard unto keepers; every one for the fruit thereof was to bring a thousand pieces of silver.

8:12    我自己的葡萄園在我面前。所羅門哪，一千舍客勒歸你，二百舍客勒歸看守果子的人。
My vineyard, which is mine, is before me: thou, O Solomon, must have a thousand, and those that keep the fruit thereof two hundred.

8:13    你這住在園中的，同伴都要聽你的聲音，求你使我也得聽見。
Thou that dwellest in the gardens, the companions hearken to thy voice: cause me to hear it.

8:14    我的良人哪，求你快來。如羚羊或小鹿在香草山上。
Make haste, my beloved, and be thou like to a roe or to a young hart upon the mountains of spices.




