


舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


1:1    當烏西雅，約坦，亞哈斯，希西家，作猶大王的時候，亞摩斯的兒子以賽亞得默示，論到猶大和耶路撒冷。
The vision of Isaiah the son of Amoz, which he saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah.

1:2    天哪，要聽，地阿，側耳而聽。因為耶和華說，我養育兒女，將他們養大，他們竟悖逆我。
Hear, O heavens, and give ear, O earth: for the LORD hath spoken, I have nourished and brought up children, and they have rebelled against me.

1:3    牛認識主人，驢認識主人得的槽。以色列卻不認識，我的民卻不留意。
The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib: but Israel doth not know, my people doth not consider.

1:4    ？？，犯罪的國民，擔著罪孽的百姓，行惡的種類，敗壞的兒女。他們離棄耶和華，藐視以色列的聖者，與他生疏，往後退步。
Ah sinful nation, a people laden with iniquity, a seed of evildoers, children that are corrupters: they have forsaken the LORD, they have provoked the Holy One of Israel unto anger, they are gone away backward.

1:5    你們為什麼屢次悖逆，還要受責打嗎。你們已經滿頭疼痛，全心發昏。
Why should ye be stricken any more? ye will revolt more and more: the whole head is sick, and the whole heart faint.

1:6    從腳掌到頭頂，沒有一處完全的。竟是傷口，青腫，與新打的傷痕。都沒有收口，沒有纏裹，也沒有用膏滋潤。
From the sole of the foot even unto the head there is no soundness in it; but wounds, and bruises, and putrifying sores: they have not been closed, neither bound up, neither mollified with ointment.

1:7    你們的地土已經荒涼。你們的城邑被火焚燬。你們的田地，在你們的眼前為外邦人所侵吞，既被外邦人傾覆，就成為荒涼。
Your country is desolate, your cities are burned with fire: your land, strangers devour it in your presence, and it is desolate, as overthrown by strangers.

1:8    僅存錫安城（城原文作女子），好像葡萄園的草棚，瓜田的茅屋，被圍困的城邑。
And the daughter of Zion is left as a cottage in a vineyard, as a lodge in a garden of cucumbers, as a besieged city.

1:9    若不是萬軍之耶和華給我們稍留餘種，我們早以像所多瑪，蛾摩拉的樣子了。
Except the LORD of hosts had left unto us a very small remnant, we should have been as Sodom, and we should have been like unto Gomorrah.

1:10    你們這所多瑪的官長阿，要聽耶和華的話。你們這蛾摩拉的百姓阿，要側耳聽我們的神的訓誨。
Hear the word of the LORD, ye rulers of Sodom; give ear unto the law of our God, ye people of Gomorrah.

1:11    耶和華說，你們所獻的許多祭物，與我何益呢。公綿羊的燔祭，和肥畜的脂油，我已經彀了。公牛的血，羊羔的血，公山羊的血，我都不喜悅。
To what purpose is the multitude of your sacrifices unto me? saith the LORD: I am full of the burnt offerings of rams, and the fat of fed beasts; and I delight not in the blood of bullocks, or of lambs, or of he goats.

1:12    你們來朝見我，誰向你們討這些，使你們踐踏我的院宇呢。
When ye come to appear before me, who hath required this at your hand, to tread my courts?

1:13    你們不要再獻虛浮的供物。香品是我所憎惡的。月朔，和安息日，並宣召的大會，也是我所憎惡的。作罪孽，又守嚴肅會，我也不能容忍。
Bring no more vain oblations; incense is an abomination unto me; the new moons and sabbaths, the calling of assemblies, I cannot away with; it is iniquity, even the solemn meeting.

1:14    你們的月朔，和節期，我心裡恨惡，我都以為麻煩。我擔當，便不耐煩。
Your new moons and your appointed feasts my soul hateth: they are a trouble unto me; I am weary to bear them.

1:15    你們舉手禱告，我必遮眼不看。就是你們多多的祈禱，我也不聽。你們的手都滿了殺人的血。
And when ye spread forth your hands, I will hide mine eyes from you: yea, when ye make many prayers, I will not hear: your hands are full of blood.

1:16    你們要洗濯，自潔。從我眼前除掉你們的惡行。要止住作惡，
Wash you, make you clean; put away the evil of your doings from before mine eyes; cease to do evil;

1:17    學習行善。尋求公平，解救受欺壓的，給孤兒伸冤，為寡婦辨屈。
Learn to do well; seek judgment, relieve the oppressed, judge the fatherless, plead for the widow.

1:18    耶和華說，你們來，我們彼此辯論。你們的罪雖像硃紅，必變成雪白。雖紅如丹顏，必白如羊毛。
Come now, and let us reason together, saith the LORD: though your sins be as scarlet, they shall be as white as snow; though they be red like crimson, they shall be as wool.

1:19    你們若甘心聽從，必吃地上的美物。
If ye be willing and obedient, ye shall eat the good of the land:

1:20    若不聽從，反倒悖逆，必被刀劍吞滅。這是耶和華親口說的。
But if ye refuse and rebel, ye shall be devoured with the sword: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it.

1:21    可嘆忠信的城，變為妓女。從前充滿了公平，公義居住在其中，現今卻有凶手居住。
How is the faithful city become an harlot! it was full of judgment; righteousness lodged in it; but now murderers.

1:22    你的銀子，變為渣滓，你的酒，用水攙對。
Thy silver is become dross, thy wine mixed with water:

1:23    你的官長居心悖逆，與盜賊作伴。各都喜愛賄賂，追求贓私。他們不為孤兒伸冤，寡婦的案件，也不得呈到他們面前。
Thy princes are rebellious, and companions of thieves: every one loveth gifts, and followeth after rewards: they judge not the fatherless, neither doth the cause of the widow come unto them.

1:24    因此主萬軍之耶和華以色列的大能者說，我要向我的對頭雪恨，向我的敵人報仇。
Therefore saith the LORD, the LORD of hosts, the mighty One of Israel, Ah, I will ease me of mine adversaries, and avenge me of mine enemies:

1:25    我必反手加在你身上，煉盡你的渣滓，除盡你的雜質。
And I will turn my hand upon thee, and purely purge away thy dross, and take away all thy tin:

1:26    我也必復還你的審判官，像起初一樣，復還你的謀士，像起先一般。然後你必稱為公義之城，忠信之邑。
And I will restore thy judges as at the first, and thy counsellors as at the beginning: afterward thou shalt be called, The city of righteousness, the faithful city.

1:27    錫安必因公平得蒙救贖，其中歸正的人，必因公義得蒙救贖。
Zion shall be redeemed with judgment, and her converts with righteousness.

1:28    但悖逆的，和犯罪的，必一同敗亡，離棄耶和華的，必致消滅。
And the destruction of the transgressors and of the sinners shall be together, and they that forsake the LORD shall be consumed.

1:29    那等人必因你們所喜愛的橡樹抱愧，你們必因所選擇的園子蒙羞。
For they shall be ashamed of the oaks which ye have desired, and ye shall be confounded for the gardens that ye have chosen.

1:30    因為你們必如葉子枯乾的橡樹，好像無水澆灌的園子。
For ye shall be as an oak whose leaf fadeth, and as a garden that hath no water.

1:31    有權勢的必如麻瓤，他的工作，好像火星，都要一同焚燬，無人撲滅。
And the strong shall be as tow, and the maker of it as a spark, and they shall both burn together, and none shall quench them.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


2:1    亞摩斯的兒子以賽亞得默示，論到猶大和耶路撒冷。
The word that Isaiah the son of Amoz saw concerning Judah and Jerusalem.

2:2    末後的日子，耶和華殿的山必堅立，超乎諸山，高舉過於萬嶺。萬民都要流歸這山。
And it shall come to pass in the last days, that the mountain of the LORD's house shall be established in the top of the mountains, and shall be exalted above the hills; and all nations shall flow unto it.

2:3    必有許多國的民前往，說，來吧，我們登耶和華的山。奔雅各神的殿。主必將他的道教訓我們，我們也要行他的路。因為訓誨必出於錫安，耶和華的言語，必出於耶路撒冷。
And many people shall go and say, Come ye, and let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for out of Zion shall go forth the law, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.

2:4    他必在列國中施行審判，為許多國民斷定是非。他們要將刀打成犁頭，把槍打成鐮刀。這國不舉刀攻擊那國，他們也不再學習山事。
And he shall judge among the nations, and shall rebuke many people: and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.

2:5    雅各家阿，來吧，我們在耶和華的光明中行走。
O house of Jacob, come ye, and let us walk in the light of the LORD.

2:6    耶和華，你離棄了你百姓雅各家，是因他們充滿了東方的風俗，作觀兆的，像非利士人一樣，並與外邦人擊掌。
Therefore thou hast forsaken thy people the house of Jacob, because they be replenished from the east, and are soothsayers like the Philistines, and they please themselves in the children of strangers.

2:7    他們的國滿了金銀，財寶也無窮，他們的地滿了馬匹，車輛也無數。
Their land also is full of silver and gold, neither is there any end of their treasures; their land is also full of horses, neither is there any end of their chariots:

2:8    他們的地滿了偶像。他們跪拜自己手所造的，就是自己指頭所作的。
Their land also is full of idols; they worship the work of their own hands, that which their own fingers have made:

2:9    卑賤人屈膝，尊貴人下跪。所以不可饒恕他們。
And the mean man boweth down, and the great man humbleth himself: therefore forgive them not.

2:10    你當進入巖穴，藏在土中，躲避耶和華的驚嚇，和他威嚴的榮光。
Enter into the rock, and hide thee in the dust, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty.

2:11    到那日，眼目高傲的必降為卑，性情狂傲的都必屈膝。惟獨耶和華被尊崇。
The lofty looks of man shall be humbled, and the haughtiness of men shall be bowed down, and the LORD alone shall be exalted in that day.

2:12    必有萬軍耶和華降罰的一個日子，要臨到驕傲狂妄的，一切自高的，都必降為卑。
For the day of the LORD of hosts shall be upon every one that is proud and lofty, and upon every one that is lifted up; and he shall be brought low:

2:13    又臨到黎巴嫩高大的香柏樹，和巴珊的橡樹。
And upon all the cedars of Lebanon, that are high and lifted up, and upon all the oaks of Bashan,

2:14    又臨到一切高山的峻嶺。
And upon all the high mountains, and upon all the hills that are lifted up,

2:15    又臨到高臺和堅固城牆。
And upon every high tower, and upon every fenced wall,

2:16    又臨到他施的船隻，並一切可愛的美物。
And upon all the ships of Tarshish, and upon all pleasant pictures.

2:17    驕傲的必屈膝，狂妄的必降卑。在那日，惟獨耶和華被尊崇。
And the loftiness of man shall be bowed down, and the haughtiness of men shall be made low: and the LORD alone shall be exalted in that day.

2:18    偶像必全然廢棄
And the idols he shall utterly abolish.

2:19    耶和華興起使地大震動的時候，人就進入石洞，進入土穴，躲避耶和華的驚嚇，和他威嚴的榮光。
And they shall go into the holes of the rocks, and into the caves of the earth, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.

2:20    到那日，人必將為拜而造的金偶像，銀偶像，拋給田鼠和蝙蝠。
In that day a man shall cast his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which they made each one for himself to worship, to the moles and to the bats;

2:21    到耶和華興起使地大震動的時候，人好進入磐石洞中，和岩石穴裡，躲避耶和華的驚嚇，和他威嚴的榮光。
To go into the clefts of the rocks, and into the tops of the ragged rocks, for fear of the LORD, and for the glory of his majesty, when he ariseth to shake terribly the earth.

2:22    你們休要依靠世人，他鼻孔裡不過有氣息。他在一切事上可算什麼呢。
Cease ye from man, whose breath is in his nostrils: for wherein is he to be accounted of ?




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


3:1    主萬軍之耶和華，從耶路撒冷和猶大，除掉眾人所依靠的，所仗賴的，就是所依靠的糧，所仗賴的水。
For, behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, doth take away from Jerusalem and from Judah the stay and the staff, the whole stay of bread, and the whole stay of water.

3:2    除掉勇士，和戰士，審判官，和先知，占卜的，和長老。
The mighty man, and the man of war, the judge, and the prophet, and the prudent, and the ancient,

3:3    五十夫長，和尊貴人。謀士，和有巧藝的，以及妙行法術的。
The captain of fifty, and the honourable man, and the counsellor, and the cunning artificer, and the eloquent orator.

3:4    主說，我必使孩童作他們的首領，使嬰孩轄管他們。
And I will give children to be their princes, and babes shall rule over them.

3:5    百姓要彼此欺壓，各人受鄰舍的欺壓。少年人必侮慢老年人，卑賤人必侮慢尊貴人。
And the people shall be oppressed, every one by another, and every one by his neighbour: the child shall behave himself proudly against the ancient, and the base against the honourable.

3:6    人在父家拉住弟兄，說，你有衣服，可以作我們的官長，這敗落的事歸在你手下吧。
When a man shall take hold of his brother of the house of his father, saying, Thou hast clothing, be thou our ruler, and let this ruin be under thy hand:

3:7    那時他必揚聲說，我不作醫治你們的人。因我家中沒有糧食，也沒有衣服。你們不可立我作百姓的官長。
In that day shall he swear, saying, I will not be an healer; for in my house is neither bread nor clothing: make me not a ruler of the people.

3:8    耶路撒冷敗落，猶大傾倒。因為他們的舌頭，和行為，與耶和華反對，惹了他榮光的眼目。
For Jerusalem is ruined, and Judah is fallen: because their tongue and their doings are against the LORD, to provoke the eyes of his glory.

3:9    他們的面色證明自己的不正。他們述說自己的罪惡，並不隱瞞，好像所多瑪一樣。他們有禍了。因為作惡自害。
The shew of their countenance doth witness against them; and they declare their sin as Sodom, they hide it not. Woe unto their soul! for they have rewarded evil unto themselves.

3:10    你們要論義人說，他必享福樂。因為要吃自己行為所結的果子。
Say ye to the righteous, that it shall be well with him: for they shall eat the fruit of their doings.

3:11    惡人有禍了。他必遭災難。因為要照自己手所行的受報應。
Woe unto the wicked! it shall be ill with him: for the reward of his hands shall be given him.

3:12    至於我的百姓，孩童欺壓他們，婦女管轄他們。我的百姓阿，引導你的，使你走錯，並毀壞你所行的道路。
As for my people, children are their oppressors, and women rule over them. O my people, they which lead thee cause thee to err, and destroy the way of thy paths.

3:13    耶和華起來辯論，站著審判眾民。
The LORD standeth up to plead, and standeth to judge the people.

3:14    耶和華必審問他民中的長老，和首領，說，吃盡葡萄園果子的，就是你們。向貧窮人所奪的，都在你們家中。
The LORD will enter into judgment with the ancients of his people, and the princes thereof: for ye have eaten up the vineyard; the spoil of the poor is in your houses.

3:15    主萬軍之耶和華說，你們為何壓治我的百姓，搓磨貧窮人的臉呢。
What mean ye that ye beat my people to pieces, and grind the faces of the poor? saith the Lord GOD of hosts.

3:16    耶和華又說，因為錫安的女子狂傲，行走挺項，賣弄眼目，俏步徐行，腳下玎鐺。
Moreover the LORD saith, Because the daughters of Zion are haughty, and walk with stretched forth necks and wanton eyes, walking and mincing as they go, and making a tinkling with their feet:

3:17    所以主必使錫安的女子頭長禿瘡，耶和華又使他們赤露下體。
Therefore the LORD will smite with a scab the crown of the head of the daughters of Zion, and the LORD will discover their secret parts.

3:18    到那日，主必除掉他們華美的腳釧，髮網，月牙圈。
In that day the Lord will take away the bravery of their tinkling ornaments about their feet, and their cauls, and their round tires like the moon,

3:19    耳環，手鐲，蒙臉的帕子。
The chains, and the bracelets, and the mufflers,

3:20    華冠，足鏈，華帶，香盒，符囊。
The bonnets, and the ornaments of the legs, and the headbands, and the tablets, and the earrings,

3:21    戒指，鼻環。
The rings, and nose jewels,

3:22    吉服，外套，雲肩，荷包。
The changeable suits of apparel, and the mantles, and the wimples, and the crisping pins,

3:23    手鏡，細麻衣，裹頭巾，蒙身的帕子。
The glasses, and the fine linen, and the hoods, and the vails.

3:24    必有臭爛代替馨香，繩子代替腰帶，光禿代替美髮，麻衣繫腰代替華服，烙傷代替美容。
And it shall come to pass, that instead of sweet smell there shall be stink; and instead of a girdle a rent; and instead of well set hair baldness; and instead of a stomacher a girding of sackcloth; and burning instead of beauty.

3:25    你的男丁，必倒在刀下，你的勇士，必死在陣上。
Thy men shall fall by the sword, and thy mighty in the war.

3:26    錫安（原文作他）的城門必悲傷，哀號。他必荒涼坐在地上。
And her gates shall lament and mourn; and she being desolate shall sit upon the ground.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


4:1    在那日，七個女人必拉住一個男人，說，我們吃自己的食物，穿自己的衣服。但求你許我們歸你名下。求你除掉我們的羞恥。
And in that day seven women shall take hold of one man, saying, We will eat our own bread, and wear our own apparel: only let us be called by thy name, to take away our reproach.

4:2    到那日，耶和華髮生的苗，必華美尊榮，地的出產，必為以色列逃脫的人顯為榮華茂盛。
In that day shall the branch of the LORD be beautiful and glorious, and the fruit of the earth shall be excellent and comely for them that are escaped of Israel.

4:3    主以公義的靈，和焚燒的靈，將錫安女子的汙穢洗去，又將耶路撒冷中殺人的血除淨，
And it shall come to pass, that he that is left in Zion, and he that remaineth in Jerusalem, shall be called holy, even every one that is written among the living in Jerusalem:

4:4    *那時，剩在錫安留在耶路撒冷的，就是一切住耶路撒冷，在生命冊上記名的，必稱為聖。
When the Lord shall have washed away the filth of the daughters of Zion, and shall have purged the blood of Jerusalem from the midst thereof by the spirit of judgment, and by the spirit of burning.

4:5    耶和華也必在錫安全山，並各會眾以上，使白日有煙雲，黑夜有火焰的光。因為在全榮耀之上必有遮蔽。
And the LORD will create upon every dwelling place of mount Zion, and upon her assemblies, a cloud and smoke by day, and the shining of a flaming fire by night: for upon all the glory shall be a defence.

4:6    必有亭子，白日可以得蔭避暑，也可以作為藏身之處，躲避狂風暴雨。
And there shall be a tabernacle for a shadow in the day time from the heat, and for a place of refuge, and for a covert from storm and from rain.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


5:1    我要為我所親愛的唱歌，是我所愛者的歌，論他葡萄園的事。我所親愛的有葡萄園，在肥美的山岡上。
Now will I sing to my wellbeloved a song of my beloved touching his vineyard. My wellbeloved hath a vineyard in a very fruitful hill:

5:2    他刨挖園子，撿去石頭，栽種上等的葡萄樹，在園中蓋了一座樓，又鑿出壓酒池。指望結好葡萄，反倒結了野葡萄。
And he fenced it, and gathered out the stones thereof, and planted it with the choicest vine, and built a tower in the midst of it, and also made a winepress therein: and he looked that it should bring forth grapes, and it brought forth wild grapes.

5:3    耶路撒冷的居民，和猶大人哪，請你們現今在我與我的葡萄園中斷定是非。
And now, O inhabitants of Jerusalem, and men of Judah, judge, I pray you, betwixt me and my vineyard.

5:4    現在我告訴你們，我要向我葡萄園甚樣行。
What could have been done more to my vineyard, that I have not done in it? wherefore, when I looked that it should bring forth grapes, brought it forth wild grapes?

5:5    我必撤去籬笆，使他被吞滅，拆毀牆垣，使他被踐踏。
And now go to; I will tell you what I will do to my vineyard: I will take away the hedge thereof, and it shall be eaten up; and break down the wall thereof, and it shall be trodden down:

5:6    我必使他荒廢，不再修理，不再鋤刨。荊棘蒺？？倒要生長。我也必命雲不降雨在其上。
And I will lay it waste: it shall not be pruned, nor digged; but there shall come up briers and thorns: I will also command the clouds that they rain no rain upon it.

5:7    萬軍之耶和華的葡萄園，就是以色列家，他所喜愛的樹，就是猶大人。他指望的是公平，誰知倒有暴虐（或作傾流人血）。指望的是公義，誰知倒有冤聲。
For the vineyard of the LORD of hosts is the house of Israel, and the men of Judah his pleasant plant: and he looked for judgment, but behold oppression; for righteousness, but behold a cry.

5:8    禍哉，那些以房接房，以地連地，以致不留餘地的，只顧自己獨居境內。
Woe unto them that join house to house, that lay field to field, till there be no place, that they may be placed alone in the midst of the earth!

5:9    我耳聞萬軍之耶和華說，必有許多又大又美的房屋，成為荒涼，無人居住。
In mine ears said the LORD of hosts, Of a truth many houses shall be desolate, even great and fair, without inhabitant.

5:10    三十畝葡萄園只出一吧特酒，一賀梅珥谷種只結一伊法糧食。
Yea, ten acres of vineyard shall yield one bath, and the seed of an homer shall yield an ephah.

5:11    禍哉，那些清早起來，追求濃酒，留連到夜深，甚至因酒發燒的人。
Woe unto them that rise up early in the morning, that they may follow strong drink; that continue until night, till wine inflame them!

5:12    他們在筵席上彈琴，鼓瑟，擊鼓，吹笛，飲酒，卻不顧念耶和華的作為，也不留心他手所作的。
And the harp, and the viol, the tabret, and pipe, and wine, are in their feasts: but they regard not the work of the LORD, neither consider the operation of his hands.

5:13    所以我的百姓，因無知就被擄去。他們的尊貴人甚是飢餓，群眾極其乾渴。
Therefore my people are gone into captivity, because they have no knowledge: and their honourable men are famished, and their multitude dried up with thirst.

5:14    故此，陰間擴張其欲，開了無限量的口。他們的榮耀，群眾，繁華，並快樂的人，都落在其中。
Therefore hell hath enlarged herself, and opened her mouth without measure: and their glory, and their multitude, and their pomp, and he that rejoiceth, shall descend into it.

5:15    卑賤人被壓服，尊貴人降為卑，高傲的人也降為卑。
And the mean man shall be brought down, and the mighty man shall be humbled, and the eyes of the lofty shall be humbled:

5:16    惟有萬軍之耶和華，因公平而崇高，聖者神，因公義顯為聖。
But the LORD of hosts shall be exalted in judgment, and God that is holy shall be sanctified in righteousness.

5:17    那時羊羔必來吃草，如同在自己的草場，豐肥人的荒場被遊行的人吃盡。
Then shall the lambs feed after their manner, and the waste places of the fat ones shall strangers eat.

5:18    禍哉，那些以虛假之細繩牽罪孽的人，他們又像以套繩拉罪惡。
Woe unto them that draw iniquity with cords of vanity, and sin as it were with a cart rope:

5:19    說，任他急速行，趕快成就他的作為，使我們看看。任以色列聖者所謀劃的臨近成就，使我們知道。
That say, Let him make speed, and hasten his work, that we may see it: and let the counsel of the Holy One of Israel draw nigh and come, that we may know it!

5:20    禍哉，那些稱惡為善，稱善為惡，以暗為光，以光為暗，以苦為甜，以甜為苦的人。
Woe unto them that call evil good, and good evil; that put darkness for light, and light for darkness; that put bitter for sweet, and sweet for bitter!

5:21    禍哉，那些自以為有智慧，自看為通達的人。
Woe unto them that are wise in their own eyes, and prudent in their own sight!

5:22    禍哉，那些勇於飲酒，以能力調濃酒的人。
Woe unto them that are mighty to drink wine, and men of strength to mingle strong drink:

5:23    他們因受賄賂，就稱惡人為義，將義人的義奪去。
Which justify the wicked for reward, and take away the righteousness of the righteous from him!

5:24    火苗怎樣吞滅碎楷，乾草怎樣落在火焰之中，照樣，他們的根必像朽物，他們的花，必像灰塵飛騰。因為他們厭棄萬軍之耶和華的訓誨，藐視以色列聖者的言語。
Therefore as the fire devoureth the stubble, and the flame consumeth the chaff, so their root shall be as rottenness, and their blossom shall go up as dust: because they have cast away the law of the LORD of hosts, and despised the word of the Holy One of Israel.

5:25    所以耶和華的怒氣向他的百姓發作，他的手伸出攻擊他們，山嶺就震動，他們的屍首在街市上好像糞土。雖然如此，他的怒氣還未轉消，他的手仍伸不縮。
Therefore is the anger of the LORD kindled against his people, and he hath stretched forth his hand against them, and hath smitten them: and the hills did tremble, and their carcases were torn in the midst of the streets. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

5:26    他必豎立大旗，招遠方的國民，髮絲聲叫他們從地極而來。看哪，他們必急速奔來。
And he will lift up an ensign to the nations from far, and will hiss unto them from the end of the earth: and, behold, they shall come with speed swiftly:

5:27    其中沒有疲倦的，絆跌的，沒有打盹的，睡覺的。腰帶並不放鬆，鞋帶也不折斷。
None shall be weary nor stumble among them; none shall slumber nor sleep; neither shall the girdle of their loins be loosed, nor the latchet of their shoes be broken:

5:28    他們的箭快利，弓也上了弦。馬蹄算如堅石，車輪好像旋風。
Whose arrows are sharp, and all their bows bent, their horses' hoofs shall be counted like flint, and their wheels like a whirlwind:

5:29    他們要吼叫像母獅子，咆哮像少壯獅子。他們要咆哮抓食，坦然叼去，無人救回。
Their roaring shall be like a lion, they shall roar like young lions: yea, they shall roar, and lay hold of the prey, and shall carry it away safe, and none shall deliver it.

5:30    那日他們要向以色列人吼叫，向海浪？？訇。人若望地，只見黑暗艱難。光明在雲中變為昏暗。
And in that day they shall roar against them like the roaring of the sea: and if one look unto the land, behold darkness and sorrow, and the light is darkened in the heavens thereof.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


6:1    當烏西雅王崩的那年，我見主坐在高高的寶座上。他的衣裳垂下，遮滿聖殿。
In the year that king Uzziah died I saw also the LORD sitting upon a throne, high and lifted up, and his train filled the temple.

6:2    其上有撒拉弗侍立。各有六個翅膀。用兩個翅膀遮臉，兩個翅膀遮腳，兩個翅膀飛翔。
Above it stood the seraphims: each one had six wings; with twain he covered his face, and with twain he covered his feet, and with twain he did fly.

6:3    彼此呼喊說，聖哉，聖哉，聖哉，萬軍之耶和華。他的榮光充滿全地。
And one cried unto another, and said, Holy, holy, holy, is the LORD of hosts: the whole earth is full of his glory.

6:4    因呼喊蛇的聲音，門檻的根基震動，殿充滿了煙雲。
And the posts of the door moved at the voice of him that cried, and the house was filled with smoke.

6:5    那時我說，禍哉，我滅亡了。因為我是嘴脣不潔的人，又住在嘴脣不潔的民中。又因我眼見大軍王萬軍之耶和華。
Then said I, Woe is me! for I am undone; because I am a man of unclean lips, and I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips: for mine eyes have seen the King, the LORD of hosts.

6:6    有一撒拉弗飛到我跟前，手裡拿著紅炭，是用火剪從壇上取下來的。
Then flew one of the seraphims unto me, having a live coal in his hand, which he had taken with the tongs from off the altar:

6:7    將炭沾我的口，說，看哪，這炭沾了你的嘴。你的罪孽便除掉，你的罪惡就赦免了。
And he laid it upon my mouth, and said, Lo, this hath touched thy lips; and thine iniquity is taken away, and thy sin purged.

6:8    我又聽見主的聲音，說，我可以差遣誰呢，誰能為我們去呢。我說，我在這裡，請差遣我。
Also I heard the voice of the Lord, saying, Whom shall I send, and who will go for us? Then said I, Here am I; send me.

6:9    他說，你去告訴這百姓說，你們聽是要聽見，卻不明白。看是要看見，卻不曉得。
And he said, Go, and tell this people, Hear ye indeed, but understand not; and see ye indeed, but perceive not.

6:10    要使這百姓心蒙脂油，耳朵發沉，眼睛昏迷。恐怕眼睛看見，耳朵聽見，心裡明白，迴轉過來，便得醫治。
Make the heart of this people fat, and make their ears heavy, and shut their eyes; lest they see with their eyes, and hear with their ears, and understand with their heart, and convert, and be healed.

6:11    我就說，主阿，這到幾時為止呢。他說，直到城邑荒涼，無人居住，房屋空閒無人，地土極其荒涼。
Then said I, Lord, how long? And he answered, Until the cities be wasted without inhabitant, and the houses without man, and the land be utterly desolate,

6:12    並且耶和華將人遷到遠方，在這境內撇下的地土很多。
And the LORD have removed men far away, and there be a great forsaking in the midst of the land.

6:13    境內剩下的人，若還有十分之一，也必被吞滅。像慄樹，橡樹，雖被砍伐，樹？？子，卻仍存留。這聖潔的種類在國中也是如此。
But yet in it shall be a tenth, and it shall return, and shall be eaten: as a teil tree, and as an oak, whose substance is in them, when they cast their leaves: so the holy seed shall be the substance thereof.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


7:1    烏西雅的孫子約坦的兒子猶大王亞哈斯在位的時候，亞蘭王利汛，和利瑪利的兒子以色列王比加上來攻打耶路撒冷，卻不能攻取。
And it came to pass in the days of Ahaz the son of Jotham, the son of Uzziah, king of Judah, that Rezin the king of Syria, and Pekah the son of Remaliah, king of Israel, went up toward Jerusalem to war against it, but could not prevail against it.

7:2    有人告訴大衛家說，亞蘭與以法蓮已經同盟。王的心和百姓的心就都跳動，好像林中的樹被風吹動一樣。
And it was told the house of David, saying, Syria is confederate with Ephraim. And his heart was moved, and the heart of his people, as the trees of the wood are moved with the wind.

7:3    耶和華對以賽亞說，你和你的兒子施亞雅述出去，到上池的水溝頭，在漂布地的大路上，去迎接亞哈斯。
Then said the LORD unto Isaiah, Go forth now to meet Ahaz, thou, and Shearjashub thy son, at the end of the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller's field;

7:4    對他說，你要謹慎安靜。不要因亞蘭王利汛，和利瑪利的兒子，這兩個冒煙的火把頭所發的烈怒害怕，也不要心裡膽怯。
And say unto him, Take heed, and be quiet; fear not, neither be fainthearted for the two tails of these smoking firebrands, for the fierce anger of Rezin with Syria, and of the son of Remaliah.

7:5    因為亞蘭，和以法蓮，並利瑪利的兒子，設惡謀害你，
Because Syria, Ephraim, and the son of Remaliah, have taken evil counsel against thee, saying,

7:6    說，我們可以上去，攻擊猶太，擾亂他，攻破他，在其中立他比勒的兒子為王。
Let us go up against Judah, and vex it, and let us make a breach therein for us, and set a king in the midst of it, even the son of Tabeal:

7:7    所以主耶和華如此說，這所謀的必立不住，也不得成就。
Thus saith the Lord GOD, It shall not stand, neither shall it come to pass.

7:8    原來亞蘭的首城是大馬士革，大馬士革的首領是利汛。六十五年之內，以法蓮必然破壞，不再成為國民。
For the head of Syria is Damascus, and the head of Damascus is Rezin; and within threescore and five years shall Ephraim be broken, that it be not a people.

7:9    以法蓮的受首城是撒瑪利亞，撒瑪利亞的首領是利瑪利的兒子。你們若是不信，定然不得立穩。
And the head of Ephraim is Samaria, and the head of Samaria is Remaliah's son. If ye will not believe, surely ye shall not be established.

7:10    耶和華又曉諭亞哈斯說，
Moreover the LORD spake again unto Ahaz, saying,

7:11    你向耶和華你的神求一個兆頭。或求顯在深處，或求顯在高處。
Ask thee a sign of the LORD thy God; ask it either in the depth, or in the height above.

7:12    亞哈斯說，我不求，我不試探耶和華。
But Ahaz said, I will not ask, neither will I tempt the LORD.

7:13    以賽亞說，大衛家阿，你們當聽。你們使人厭煩豈算小事，還要使我的神厭煩嗎。
And he said, Hear ye now, O house of David; Is it a small thing for you to weary men, but will ye weary my God also?

7:14    因此，主自己要給你們一個兆頭，必有童女懷孕生子，給他起名叫以馬內利。（就是神與我們同在的意思）
Therefore the Lord himself shall give you a sign; Behold, a virgin shall conceive, and bear a son, and shall call his name Immanuel.

7:15    到他曉得棄惡擇善的時候，他必吃奶油與蜂蜜。
Butter and honey shall he eat, that he may know to refuse the evil, and choose the good.

7:16    因為在這孩子還不曉得棄惡擇善之先，你所憎惡的那兩王之地，必致見棄。
For before the child shall know to refuse the evil, and choose the good, the land that thou abhorrest shall be forsaken of both her kings.

7:17    耶和華必使亞述王攻擊你的日子臨到，你和你的百姓，並你的父家，自從以法蓮離開猶太以來，未曾有這樣的日子。
The LORD shall bring upon thee, and upon thy people, and upon thy father's house, days that have not come, from the day that Ephraim departed from Judah; even the king of Assyria.

7:18    那時，耶和華要髮絲聲，使埃及江河源頭的蒼蠅，和亞述地的蜂子飛來。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall hiss for the fly that is in the uttermost part of the rivers of Egypt, and for the bee that is in the land of Assyria.

7:19    都必飛來，落在荒涼的谷內，磐石的穴裡，和一切荊棘籬笆中，並一切的草場上。
And they shall come, and shall rest all of them in the desolate valleys, and in the holes of the rocks, and upon all thorns, and upon all bushes.

7:20    那時，主必用大河外賃的剃頭刀，就是亞述王，剃去頭髮，和腳上的毛，並要剃淨鬍鬚。
In the same day shall the Lord shave with a razor that is hired, namely, by them beyond the river, by the king of Assyria, the head, and the hair of the feet: and it shall also consume the beard.

7:21    那時，一個人要養活一隻母牛犢，兩隻母綿羊。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that a man shall nourish a young cow, and two sheep;

7:22    因為出的奶多，他就得吃奶油。在境內所剩的人，都要吃奶油與蜂蜜。
And it shall come to pass, for the abundance of milk that they shall give he shall eat butter: for butter and honey shall every one eat that is left in the land.

7:23    從前凡種一千棵葡萄樹，值銀一千舍客勒的地方，到那時，必長荊棘和蒺藜。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that every place shall be, where there were a thousand vines at a thousand silverlings, it shall even be for briers and thorns.

7:24    人上那裡去，必帶弓劍，因為遍地滿了荊棘和蒺藜。
With arrows and with bows shall men come thither; because all the land shall become briers and thorns.

7:25    所有用鋤刨挖的山地，你因怕荊棘和蒺藜，不敢上那裡去。只可成了放牛之處，為羊踐踏之地。
And on all hills that shall be digged with the mattock, there shall not come thither the fear of briers and thorns: but it shall be for the sending forth of oxen, and for the treading of lesser cattle.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華對我說，你取一個大牌，拿人所用的筆，（或作人常用的字）寫上瑪黑珥沙拉勒哈斯吧斯。（就是擄掠速臨搶奪快到的意思）
Moreover the LORD said unto me, Take thee a great roll, and write in it with a man's pen concerning Mahershalalhashbaz.

8:2    我要用誠實的見證人，祭司烏利亞，和耶比利家的兒子撒迦利亞，記錄這事。
And I took unto me faithful witnesses to record, Uriah the priest, and Zechariah the son of Jeberechiah.

8:3    我以賽亞與妻子（原文作女先知）同室。他懷孕生子，耶和華就對我說，給他起名叫瑪黑珥沙拉勒哈斯吧斯。
And I went unto the prophetess; and she conceived, and bare a son. Then said the LORD to me, Call his name Mahershalalhashbaz.

8:4    因為在這小孩子不曉得叫父叫母之先，大馬士革的財寶，和撒瑪利亞的擄物，必在亞述王面前搬了去。
For before the child shall have knowledge to cry, My father, and my mother, the riches of Damascus and the spoil of Samaria shall be taken away before the king of Assyria.

8:5    耶和華又曉諭我說，
The LORD spake also unto me again, saying,

8:6    這百姓既厭棄西羅亞緩流的水，喜悅利汛和利瑪利的兒子。
Forasmuch as this people refuseth the waters of Shiloah that go softly, and rejoice in Rezin and Remaliah's son;

8:7    因此，主必使大河翻騰的水猛然衝來，就是亞述王，和他所有的威勢。必漫過一切的水道，漲過兩岸。
Now therefore, behold, the Lord bringeth up upon them the waters of the river, strong and many, even the king of Assyria, and all his glory: and he shall come up over all his channels, and go over all his banks:

8:8    必衝入猶大。漲溢氾濫，直到頸項。以馬內利阿，他展開翅膀，遍滿你的地。
And he shall pass through Judah; he shall overflow and go over, he shall reach even to the neck; and the stretching out of his wings shall fill the breadth of thy land, O Immanuel.

8:9    列國的人民哪，任憑你們喧囔，終必破壞。遠方的眾人哪，當側耳而聽。任憑你們束起腰來，終必破壞。你們束起腰來，終必破壞。
Associate yourselves, O ye people, and ye shall be broken in pieces; and give ear, all ye of far countries: gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces; gird yourselves, and ye shall be broken in pieces.

8:10    任憑你們同謀，終歸無有。任憑你們言定，終不成立。因為神與我們同在。
Take counsel together, and it shall come to nought; speak the word, and it shall not stand: for God is with us.

8:11    耶和華以大能的手，指教我不可行這百姓所行的道，對我這樣說，
For the LORD spake thus to me with a strong hand, and instructed me that I should not walk in the way of this people, saying,

8:12    這百姓說，同謀背叛，你們不要說，同謀背叛。他們所怕的，你們不要怕，也不要畏懼。
Say ye not, A confederacy, to all them to whom this people shall say, A confederacy; neither fear ye their fear, nor be afraid.

8:13    但要尊萬軍之耶和華為聖。以他為你們所當怕的，所當畏懼的。
Sanctify the LORD of hosts himself; and let him be your fear, and let him be your dread.

8:14    他必作為聖所。卻向以色列兩家作絆腳的石頭，跌人的磐石。向耶路撒冷的居民，作為圈套和網羅。
And he shall be for a sanctuary; but for a stone of stumbling and for a rock of offence to both the houses of Israel, for a gin and for a snare to the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

8:15    許多人必在其上絆腳跌倒，而且跌碎，並陷入網羅，被纏住。
And many among them shall stumble, and fall, and be broken, and be snared, and be taken.

8:16    你要捲起律法書，在我門徒中間封住訓悔。
Bind up the testimony, seal the law among my disciples.

8:17    我要等候那掩面不顧雅各家的耶和華，我也要仰望他。
And I will wait upon the LORD, that hideth his face from the house of Jacob, and I will look for him.

8:18    看哪，我與耶和華所給我的兒女，就是從住在錫安山萬君之耶和華來的，在以色列中作為豫兆和奇蹟。
Behold, I and the children whom the LORD hath given me are for signs and for wonders in Israel from the LORD of hosts, which dwelleth in mount Zion.

8:19    有人對你們說，當求問那些交鬼的，和行巫術的，就是聲音綿蠻，言語微細的。你們便回答說，百姓不當求問自己的神嗎。豈可為活人求問死人呢。
And when they shall say unto you, Seek unto them that have familiar spirits, and unto wizards that peep, and that mutter: should not a people seek unto their God? for the living to the dead?

8:20    人當以訓悔和法度為標準。他們所說的，若不與此相符，必不得見晨光。
To the law and to the testimony: if they speak not according to this word, it is because there is no light in them.

8:21    他們必經過這地，受艱難，受飢餓。飢餓的時候，心中焦躁，咒罵自己的君王，和自己的神。
And they shall pass through it, hardly bestead and hungry: and it shall come to pass, that when they shall be hungry, they shall fret themselves, and curse their king and their God, and look upward.

8:22    仰觀上天，俯察下地，不料，盡是艱難，黑暗，和幽暗的痛苦。他們必被趕入烏黑的黑暗中去。
And they shall look unto the earth; and behold trouble and darkness, dimness of anguish; and they shall be driven to darkness.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


9:1    但那受過痛苦的，必不再見幽暗。從前神使西布倫地，和拿弗他地被藐視。末後卻使這沿海的路，約旦河外，外邦人的加利利地，得著榮耀。
Nevertheless the dimness shall not be such as was in her vexation, when at the first he lightly afflicted the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, and afterward did more grievously afflict her by the way of the sea, beyond Jordan, in Galilee of the nations.

9:2    在黑暗中行走的百性，看見了大光。住在死蔭之地的人，有光照耀他們。
The people that walked in darkness have seen a great light: they that dwell in the land of the shadow of death, upon them hath the light shined.

9:3    你使這國民繁多，加增他們的喜樂。他們在你面前歡喜，好像收割的歡喜，像人分擄物那樣的快樂。
Thou hast multiplied the nation, and not increased the joy: they joy before thee according to the joy in harvest, and as men rejoice when they divide the spoil.

9:4    因為他們所負的重軛，和肩頭上的仗，並欺壓他們人的棍，你都已經摺斷，好像在米甸的日子一樣。
For thou hast broken the yoke of his burden, and the staff of his shoulder, the rod of his oppressor, as in the day of Midian.

9:5    戰士在亂殺之間所穿戴的盔甲，並那輥在血中的衣服，都必作為可燒的，當作火柴。
For every battle of the warrior is with confused noise, and garments rolled in blood; but this shall be with burning and fuel of fire.

9:6    因為有一嬰孩為我們而生，有一子賜給我們。政權必擔在他的肩頭上。他名稱為奇妙，策士，全能的神，永在的父，和平的君。
For unto us a child is born, unto us a son is given: and the government shall be upon his shoulder: and his name shall be called Wonderful, Counsellor, The mighty God, The everlasting Father, The Prince of Peace.

9:7    他的政權與平安必加增無窮。他必在大衛的寶座上，治理他的國，以公平公義使國堅定穩固，從今直到永遠。萬君之耶和華的熱心，必成就這事。
Of the increase of his government and peace there shall be no end, upon the throne of David, and upon his kingdom, to order it, and to establish it with judgment and with justice from henceforth even for ever. The zeal of the LORD of hosts will perform this.

9:8    主使一言人於雅各家，落於以色列家。
The Lord sent a word into Jacob, and it hath lighted upon Israel.

9:9    這眾百姓，就是以法蓮和撒瑪利亞的居民，都要知道。他們憑驕傲自大的心說，
And all the people shall know, even Ephraim and the inhabitant of Samaria, that say in the pride and stoutness of heart,

9:10    磚牆塌了，我們卻要鑿石頭建築，桑樹砍了，我們卻要換香柏樹。
The bricks are fallen down, but we will build with hewn stones: the sycomores are cut down, but we will change them into cedars.

9:11    因此，耶和華要高舉利汛的敵人，來攻擊以色列，並要激動以色列的仇敵，
Therefore the LORD shall set up the adversaries of Rezin against him, and join his enemies together;

9:12    東有亞蘭人，西有非利士人。他們張口要吞吃以色列。雖然如此，耶和華的怒氣還未轉消，他的手仍伸不縮。
The Syrians before, and the Philistines behind; and they shall devour Israel with open mouth. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

9:13    這百姓還沒有歸向擊打他們的主，也沒有尋求萬軍之耶和華。
For the people turneth not unto him that smiteth them, neither do they seek the LORD of hosts.

9:14    因此，耶和華一日之間，必從以色列中剪除頭與尾，棕枝與蘆葦。
Therefore the LORD will cut off from Israel head and tail, branch and rush, in one day.

9:15    長老和尊貴人，就是頭。以謊言教人的先知，就是尾。
The ancient and honourable, he is the head; and the prophet that teacheth lies, he is the tail.

9:16    因為引導這百姓的，使他們走錯了路。被引導的，都必敗亡。
For the leaders of this people cause them to err; and they that are led of them are destroyed.

9:17    所以主必不喜悅他們的少年人，也不憐恤他們的孤兒寡婦。因為各人是褻瀆的，是行惡的，並且各人的口，都說愚妄的話。雖然如此，耶和華的怒氣還未轉消，他的手仍伸不縮。
Therefore the LORD shall have no joy in their young men, neither shall have mercy on their fatherless and widows: for every one is an hypocrite and an evildoer, and every mouth speaketh folly. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

9:18    邪惡像火焚燒，燒滅荊棘和蒺藜。在稠密的樹林中著起來，就成為煙柱，旋轉上騰。
For wickedness burneth as the fire: it shall devour the briers and thorns, and shall kindle in the thickets of the forest, and they shall mount up like the lifting up of smoke.

9:19    因萬軍之耶和華的烈怒，地都燒遍。百姓成為火柴，無人憐愛弟兄。
Through the wrath of the LORD of hosts is the land darkened, and the people shall be as the fuel of the fire: no man shall spare his brother.

9:20    有人右邊搶奪，仍受飢餓。左邊吞吃，仍不飽足。各人吃自己膀臂上的肉。
And he shall snatch on the right hand, and be hungry; and he shall eat on the left hand, and they shall not be satisfied: they shall eat every man the flesh of his own arm:

9:21    瑪拿西吞吃（或作攻擊下同）以法蓮，以法蓮吞吃瑪拿西。又一同攻擊猶大。雖然如此，耶和華的怒氣還未轉消，他的手仍伸不縮。
Manasseh, Ephraim; and Ephraim, Manasseh: and they together shall be against Judah. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


10:1    禍哉，那些設立不義之律例的，和記錄奸詐之判語的。
Woe unto them that decree unrighteous decrees, and that write grievousness which they have prescribed;

10:2    為要屈枉窮乏人，奪去我民中困苦人的理，以寡婦當作擄物，以孤兒當作掠物。
To turn aside the needy from judgment, and to take away the right from the poor of my people, that widows may be their prey, and that they may rob the fatherless!

10:3    到降罰的日子，有災禍從遠方臨到，那時，你們怎樣行呢，你們向誰逃奔求救呢，你們的榮耀（或作財寶）存留何處呢。
And what will ye do in the day of visitation, and in the desolation which shall come from far? to whom will ye flee for help? and where will ye leave your glory?

10:4    他們只得屈身在被擄的人以下，仆倒在被殺的人以下，雖然如此，耶和華的怒氣還未轉消，他的手仍伸不縮。
Without me they shall bow down under the prisoners, and they shall fall under the slain. For all this his anger is not turned away, but his hand is stretched out still.

10:5    亞述是我怒氣的棍，手中拿我惱恨的仗。
O Assyrian, the rod of mine anger, and the staff in their hand is mine indignation.

10:6    我要打發他攻擊褻瀆的國民，吩咐他攻擊我所惱怒的百姓，搶財為擄物，奪貨為掠物，將他們踐踏，像街上的泥土一樣。
I will send him against an hypocritical nation, and against the people of my wrath will I give him a charge, to take the spoil, and to take the prey, and to tread them down like the mire of the streets.

10:7    然而他不是這樣的意思，他心也不這樣打算。他心裡倒想毀滅，剪除不少的國。
Howbeit he meaneth not so, neither doth his heart think so; but it is in his heart to destroy and cut off nations not a few.

10:8    他說，我的臣僕，豈不都是王嗎。
For he saith, Are not my princes altogether kings?

10:9    迦勒挪豈不像迦基米施嗎。哈馬豈不像亞珥拔嗎。撒瑪利亞豈不像大馬士革嗎。
Is not Calno as Carchemish? is not Hamath as Arpad? is not Samaria as Damascus?

10:10    我手已經構到有偶像的國。這些國雕刻的偶像過於耶路撒冷和撒瑪利亞的偶像。
As my hand hath found the kingdoms of the idols, and whose graven images did excel them of Jerusalem and of Samaria;

10:11    我怎樣待撒瑪利亞，和其中的偶像，豈不照樣待耶路撒冷，和其中的偶像嗎。
Shall I not, as I have done unto Samaria and her idols, so do to Jerusalem and her idols?

10:12    主在錫安山，和耶路撒冷，成就他一切工作的時候，主說，我必罰亞述王自大的心，和他高傲眼目的榮耀。
Wherefore it shall come to pass, that when the Lord hath performed his whole work upon mount Zion and on Jerusalem, I will punish the fruit of the stout heart of the king of Assyria, and the glory of his high looks.

10:13    因為他說，我所成就的事，是靠我手的能力，和我的智慧。我本有聰明。我挪移列國的地界，搶奪他們所積蓄的財寶，並且我像勇士，使坐寶座的降為卑。
For he saith, By the strength of my hand I have done it, and by my wisdom; for I am prudent: and I have removed the bounds of the people, and have robbed their treasures, and I have put down the inhabitants like a valiant man:

10:14    我的手構到列國的財寶，好像人構道鳥窩。我也得了全地，好像人拾起所棄的雀蛋。沒有動翅膀的，沒有張嘴的，也沒有嗚叫的。
And my hand hath found as a nest the riches of the people: and as one gathereth eggs that are left, have I gathered all the earth; and there was none that moved the wing, or opened the mouth, or peeped.

10:15    斧，豈可向用釜砍木的自誇呢。鋸，豈可向用鋸的自大呢。好比棍掄起那舉棍的，好比杖舉起那非木的人。
Shall the axe boast itself against him that heweth therewith? or shall the saw magnify itself against him that shaketh it? as if the rod should shake itself against them that lift it up, or as if the staff should lift up itself, as if it were no wood.

10:16    因此，主萬軍之耶和華，必使亞述王的肥壯人變為瘦弱。在他的榮華之下，必有火著起，如同焚燒一樣。
Therefore shall the Lord, the Lord of hosts, send among his fat ones leanness; and under his glory he shall kindle a burning like the burning of a fire.

10:17    以色列的光必如火，他的聖者必如火焰。在一日之間，將亞述王的荊棘，和蒺藜，焚燒淨盡。
And the light of Israel shall be for a fire, and his Holy One for a flame: and it shall burn and devour his thorns and his briers in one day;

10:18    又將他樹木，和肥田的榮耀，全然燒盡。好像拿軍旗的昏過去一樣。
And shall consume the glory of his forest, and of his fruitful field, both soul and body: and they shall be as when a standard-bearer fainteth.

10:19    他林中剩下的樹必稀少，就是孩子也能寫其數。
And the rest of the trees of his forest shall be few, that a child may write them.

10:20    *
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the remnant of Israel, and such as are escaped of the house of Jacob, shall no more again stay upon him that smote them; but shall stay upon the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, in truth.

10:21    到那日，以色列所剩下的，和雅各家所逃脫的，不再倚靠那擊打他們的，卻要誠實倚靠耶和華以色列的聖者。所剩下的，就是雅各家所剩下的，必歸向全能的神。
The remnant shall return, even the remnant of Jacob, unto the mighty God.

10:22    以色列阿，你的百姓，雖多如海沙，惟有剩下的歸回。原來滅絕的事已定，必有公義施行，如水漲溢。
For though thy people Israel be as the sand of the sea, yet a remnant of them shall return: the consumption decreed shall overflow with righteousness.

10:23    因為主萬軍之耶和華，在全地之中，必成就所定規的結局。
For the Lord GOD of hosts shall make a consumption, even determined, in the midst of all the land.

10:24    所以主萬軍之耶和華如此說，住錫安我的百姓阿，亞述王雖然用棍擊打你，又照埃及的樣子，舉仗攻擊你，你卻不要怕他。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, O my people that dwellest in Zion, be not afraid of the Assyrian: he shall smite thee with a rod, and shall lift up his staff against thee, after the manner of Egypt.

10:25    因為還有一點點時候，向你們發的忿恨就要完畢，我的怒氣要向他發作，使他滅亡。
For yet a very little while, and the indignation shall cease, and mine anger in their destruction.

10:26    萬軍之耶和華要興起鞭來攻擊他，好像在俄立磐石那裡殺戮米甸人一樣。耶和華的杖，要向海伸出，把杖舉起，像在埃及一樣。
And the LORD of hosts shall stir up a scourge for him according to the slaughter of Midian at the rock of Oreb: and as his rod was upon the sea, so shall he lift it up after the manner of Egypt.

10:27    到那日，亞述王的重擔必離開你的肩頭，他的軛必離開你的頸項。那軛也必因肥壯的緣故撐斷。（或作因膏油的緣故毀壞）
And it shall come to pass in that day, that his burden shall be taken away from off thy shoulder, and his yoke from off thy neck, and the yoke shall be destroyed because of the anointing.

10:28    亞述王來到亞葉，經過米磯侖。在密抹安放輜重。
He is come to Aiath, he is passed to Migron; at Michmash he hath laid up his carriages:

10:29    他們過了隘口，在迦巴住宿。拉瑪人戰兢。掃羅的基比亞人逃跑。
They are gone over the passage: they have taken up their lodging at Geba; Ramah is afraid; Gibeah of Saul is fled.

10:30    迦琳的居民哪，（居民原作女子）要高聲呼喊。萊煞人哪，須聽。哀哉，困苦的亞拿突阿。
Lift up thy voice, O daughter of Gallim: cause it to be heard unto Laish, O poor Anathoth.

10:31    瑪得米那人躲避。基柄的居民逃遁。
Madmenah is removed; the inhabitants of Gebim gather themselves to flee.

10:32    當那日，亞述王要在挪伯歇兵。向錫安女子的山，就是耶路撒冷的山，掄手攻他。
As yet shall he remain at Nob that day: he shall shake his hand against the mount of the daughter of Zion, the hill of Jerusalem.

10:33    看哪，主萬軍之耶和華，以驚嚇削去樹枝。長高的必被砍下，高大的必被伐倒。
Behold, the Lord, the LORD of hosts, shall lop the bough with terror: and the high ones of stature shall be hewn down, and the haughty shall be humbled.

10:34    稠密的樹林，他要用鐵器砍下，黎巴嫩的樹木必被大能者伐倒。
And he shall cut down the thickets of the forest with iron, and Lebanon shall fall by a mighty one.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


11:1    從耶西的本（原文作？？）必發一條，從他生的枝子必結果實。
And there shall come forth a rod out of the stem of Jesse, and a Branch shall grow out of his roots:

11:2    耶和華的靈必住在他身上，就是使他有智慧和聰明的靈，謀略和能力的靈，知識和敬畏耶和華的靈。
And the spirit of the LORD shall rest upon him, the spirit of wisdom and understanding, the spirit of counsel and might, the spirit of knowledge and of the fear of the LORD;

11:3    他必以敬畏耶和華為樂。行審判不憑眼見，斷是非也不憑耳聞。
And shall make him of quick understanding in the fear of the LORD: and he shall not judge after the sight of his eyes, neither reprove after the hearing of his ears:

11:4    卻要以公義審判貧窮人，以正直判斷世上的謙卑人。以口中的杖擊打世界。以嘴裡的氣殺戮惡人。
But with righteousness shall he judge the poor, and reprove with equity for the meek of the earth: and he shall smite the earth with the rod of his mouth, and with the breath of his lips shall he slay the wicked.

11:5    公義必當他的腰帶，信實必當他脅下的帶子。
And righteousness shall be the girdle of his loins, and faithfulness the girdle of his reins.

11:6    豺狼必與綿羊羔同居，豹子與山羊羔同臥。少壯獅子，與牛犢，並肥畜同群。小孩子要牽引他們。
The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them.

11:7    牛必與熊同食。牛犢必與小熊同臥。獅子必吃草與牛一樣。
And the cow and the bear shall feed; their young ones shall lie down together: and the lion shall eat straw like the ox.

11:8    吃奶的孩子必玩耍在虺蛇的洞口，斷奶的嬰兒必按手在毒蛇的穴上。
And the sucking child shall play on the hole of the asp, and the weaned child shall put his hand on the cockatrice' den.

11:9    在我聖山的遍處，這一切都不傷人，不害物。因為認識耶和華的知識要充滿遍地，好像水充滿洋海一般。
They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain: for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea.

11:10    到那日，耶西的根立作萬民的大旗。外邦人必尋求他。他安息之所大有榮耀。
And in that day there shall be a root of Jesse, which shall stand for an ensign of the people; to it shall the Gentiles seek: and his rest shall be glorious.

11:11    當那日，主必二次伸手救回自己百姓中所餘剩的，就是在亞述，埃及，巴忒羅，古實，以攔，示拿，哈馬，並眾海島所剩下的。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the Lord shall set his hand again the second time to recover the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from Assyria, and from Egypt, and from Pathros, and from Cush, and from Elam, and from Shinar, and from Hamath, and from the islands of the sea.

11:12    他必向列國豎立大旗，招回以色列被趕散的人，又從地的四方聚集分散的猶大人。
And he shall set up an ensign for the nations, and shall assemble the outcasts of Israel, and gather together the dispersed of Judah from the four corners of the earth.

11:13    以法蓮的嫉妒就必消散，擾害猶大的必被剪除。以法蓮必不嫉妒猶大，猶大也不擾害以法蓮。
The envy also of Ephraim shall depart, and the adversaries of Judah shall be cut off: Ephraim shall not envy Judah, and Judah shall not vex Ephraim.

11:14    他們要向西飛，撲在非利士人的肩頭上。（肩頭上或做西界）一同擄掠東方人，伸手按住以東和摩押。亞捫人也必順服他們。
But they shall fly upon the shoulders of the Philistines toward the west; they shall spoil them of the east together: they shall lay their hand upon Edom and Moab; and the children of Ammon shall obey them.

11:15    耶和華必使埃及海汊枯乾。掄手用暴熱的風，使大河分為七條，令人過去不致溼腳。
And the LORD shall utterly destroy the tongue of the Egyptian sea; and with his mighty wind shall he shake his hand over the river, and shall smite it in the seven streams, and make men go over dryshod.

11:16    為主剩餘的百姓，就是從亞述剩下回來的，必有一條大道，如當日以色列從埃及地上來一樣。
And there shall be an highway for the remnant of his people, which shall be left, from Assyria; like as it was to Israel in the day that he came up out of the land of Egypt.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


12:1    到那日，你必說，耶和華阿，我要稱謝你因為你雖然向我發怒，你的怒氣卻已轉消，你又安慰了我。
And in that day thou shalt say, O LORD, I will praise thee: though thou wast angry with me, thine anger is turned away, and thou comfortedst me.

12:2    看哪，神是我的拯救。我要倚靠他，並不懼怕。因為主耶和華是我的力量，是我的詩歌。他也成為我的拯救。
Behold, God is my salvation; I will trust, and not be afraid: for the LORD JEHOVAH is my strength and my song; he also is become my salvation.

12:3    所以你們必從救恩的泉源歡然取水。
Therefore with joy shall ye draw water out of the wells of salvation.

12:4    在那日，你們要說，當稱謝耶和華，求告他的名，將他所行的傳揚在萬民中，題說他的名已被尊崇。
And in that day shall ye say, Praise the LORD, call upon his name, declare his doings among the people, make mention that his name is exalted.

12:5    你們要向耶和華唱歌。因他所行的甚是美好。但願這事普傳天下。
Sing unto the LORD; for he hath done excellent things: this is known in all the earth.

12:6    錫安的居民哪，當揚聲歡呼。因為在你們中間的以色列聖者，乃為至大。
Cry out and shout, thou inhabitant of Zion: for great is the Holy One of Israel in the midst of thee.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


13:1    亞摩斯的兒子以賽亞得默示論巴比倫。
The burden of Babylon, which Isaiah the son of Amoz did see.

13:2    應當在淨光的山豎立大旗，向群眾揚聲招手，使他們進入貴胄的門。
Lift ye up a banner upon the high mountain, exalt the voice unto them, shake the hand, that they may go into the gates of the nobles.

13:3    我吩咐我所挑出來的人。我招呼我的勇士，就是那矜誇高傲之輩，為要成就我怒中所定的。
I have commanded my sanctified ones, I have also called my mighty ones for mine anger, even them that rejoice in my highness.

13:4    山間有多人的聲音，好像是大國人民。有許多國的民聚集哄囔的聲音。這是萬軍之耶和華點齊軍隊，豫備打仗。
The noise of a multitude in the mountains, like as of a great people; a tumultuous noise of the kingdoms of nations gathered together: the LORD of hosts mustereth the host of the battle.

13:5    他們從遠方來，從天邊來，就是耶和華並他惱恨的兵器，要毀滅這全地。
They come from a far country, from the end of heaven, even the LORD, and the weapons of his indignation, to destroy the whole land.

13:6    你們要哀號，因為耶和華的日子臨近了。這日來到，好像毀滅從全能者來到。
Howl ye; for the day of the LORD is at hand; it shall come as a destruction from the Almighty.

13:7    所以人手都必軟弱，人心都必消化。
Therefore shall all hands be faint, and every man's heart shall melt:

13:8    他們必驚惶悲痛。愁苦必將他們抓住。他們疼痛，好像產難的婦人一樣。彼此驚奇相看，臉如火焰。
And they shall be afraid: pangs and sorrows shall take hold of them; they shall be in pain as a woman that travaileth: they shall be amazed one at another; their faces shall be as flames.

13:9    耶和華的日子臨到，必有殘忍，忿恨，烈怒。使這地荒涼，從其中除滅罪人。
Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, cruel both with wrath and fierce anger, to lay the land desolate: and he shall destroy the sinners thereof out of it.

13:10    天上得眾星群宿，都不發光。日頭一出，就變黑暗，月亮也不放光。
For the stars of heaven and the constellations thereof shall not give their light: the sun shall be darkened in his going forth, and the moon shall not cause her light to shine.

13:11    我必因邪惡，刑罰世界，因罪孽，刑罰惡人。使驕傲人的狂妄止息，制伏強暴人的狂傲。
And I will punish the world for their evil, and the wicked for their iniquity; and I will cause the arrogancy of the proud to cease, and will lay low the haughtiness of the terrible.

13:12    我必使人比精金還少，使人比俄斐純金更少。
I will make a man more precious than fine gold; even a man than the golden wedge of Ophir.

13:13    我萬軍之耶和華在忿恨中發烈怒的日子，必使天震動，使地搖憾，離其本位。
Therefore I will shake the heavens, and the earth shall remove out of her place, in the wrath of the LORD of hosts, and in the day of his fierce anger.

13:14    人必像被追趕的鹿，像無人收聚的羊，各歸回本族，各逃到本土。
And it shall be as the chased roe, and as a sheep that no man taketh up: they shall every man turn to his own people, and flee every one into his own land.

13:15    凡被仇敵追上的，必被刺死。凡被捉住的，必被刀殺。
Every one that is found shall be thrust through; and every one that is joined unto them shall fall by the sword.

13:16    他們的嬰孩，必在他們眼前摔碎。他們的房屋，必被搶奪。他們的妻子，必被玷汙。
Their children also shall be dashed to pieces before their eyes; their houses shall be spoiled, and their wives ravished.

13:17    我必激動瑪代人來攻擊他們。瑪代人不注重銀子，也不喜愛金子。
Behold, I will stir up the Medes against them, which shall not regard silver; and as for gold, they shall not delight in it.

13:18    他們必用弓擊碎少年人，不憐憫婦人所生的，眼也不顧惜孩子。
Their bows also shall dash the young men to pieces; and they shall have no pity on the fruit of the womb; their eye shall not spare children.

13:19    巴比倫素來為列國的榮耀，為迦勒底人所矜誇的華美，必像神所傾覆的所多瑪蛾摩拉一樣。
And Babylon, the glory of kingdoms, the beauty of the Chaldees' excellency, shall be as when God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah.

13:20    其內必永無人煙，世世代代無人居住。阿拉伯人也不在那裡支搭帳蓬。牧羊的人，也不使羊群臥在那裡。
It shall never be inhabited, neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation: neither shall the Arabian pitch tent there; neither shall the shepherds make their fold there.

13:21    只有曠野的走獸臥在那裡。咆哮的獸滿了房屋。鴕鳥住在那裡。野山羊在那裡跳舞。
But wild beasts of the desert shall lie there; and their houses shall be full of doleful creatures; and owls shall dwell there, and satyrs shall dance there.

13:22    豺狼必在他宮中呼號。野狗必在他華美殿內吼叫。巴比倫受罰的時候臨近，他的日子，必不長久。
And the wild beasts of the islands shall cry in their desolate houses, and dragons in their pleasant palaces: and her time is near to come, and her days shall not be prolonged.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


14:1    耶和華要憐恤雅各，必再撿選以色列，將他們安置在本地。寄居的必與他們聯合，緊貼雅各家。
For the LORD will have mercy on Jacob, and will yet choose Israel, and set them in their own land: and the strangers shall be joined with them, and they shall cleave to the house of Jacob.

14:2    外邦人必將他們帶回本土。以色列家必在耶和華的地上得外邦人為僕婢。也要擄掠先前擄掠他們的，轄制先前欺壓他們的。
And the people shall take them, and bring them to their place: and the house of Israel shall possess them in the land of the LORD for servants and handmaids: and they shall take them captives, whose captives they were; and they shall rule over their oppressors.

14:3    當耶和華使你脫離愁苦，煩惱，並人勉強你作的苦工，得享安息的日子，
And it shall come to pass in the day that the LORD shall give thee rest from thy sorrow, and from thy fear, and from the hard bondage wherein thou wast made to serve,

14:4    你必題這詩歌論巴比倫王說，欺壓人的何竟息滅，強暴的何竟止息。
That thou shalt take up this proverb against the king of Babylon, and say, How hath the oppressor ceased! the golden city ceased!

14:5    耶和華折斷了惡人的杖，轄制人的圭，
The LORD hath broken the staff of the wicked, and the sceptre of the rulers.

14:6    就是在忿怒中連連攻擊眾民的，在怒氣中轄制列國，行逼迫無人阻止的。
He who smote the people in wrath with a continual stroke, he that ruled the nations in anger, is persecuted, and none hindereth.

14:7    現在全地得安息，享平靜。人皆發聲歡呼。
The whole earth is at rest, and is quiet: they break forth into singing.

14:8    松樹和黎巴嫩的香柏樹，都因你歡樂，說，自從你仆倒，再無人上來砍伐我們。
Yea, the fir trees rejoice at thee, and the cedars of Lebanon, saying, Since thou art laid down, no feller is come up against us.

14:9    你下到陰間，陰間就因你震動，來迎接你。又因你驚動在世曾為首領的陰魂，並使那曾為列國君王的，都離位站起。
Hell from beneath is moved for thee to meet thee at thy coming: it stirreth up the dead for thee, even all the chief ones of the earth; it hath raised up from their thrones all the kings of the nations.

14:10    他們都要發言對你說，你也變為軟弱，像我們一樣嗎。你也成了我們的樣子嗎。
All they shall speak and say unto thee, Art thou also become weak as we? art thou become like unto us?

14:11    你的威勢，和你琴瑟的聲音，都下到陰間。你下鋪的是蟲，上蓋的是蛆。
Thy pomp is brought down to the grave, and the noise of thy viols: the worm is spread under thee, and the worms cover thee.

14:12    明亮之星，早晨之子阿，你何竟從天墜落。你這攻敗列國的，何竟被砍倒在地上。
How art thou fallen from heaven, O Lucifer, son of the morning! how art thou cut down to the ground, which didst weaken the nations!

14:13    你心裡曾說，我要升到天上。我要高舉我的寶座在神眾星以上。我要坐在聚會的山上，在北方的極處，
For thou hast said in thine heart, I will ascend into heaven, I will exalt my throne above the stars of God: I will sit also upon the mount of the congregation, in the sides of the north:

14:14    我要升到高雲之上。我要與至上者同等。
I will ascend above the heights of the clouds; I will be like the most High.

14:15    然而你必墜落陰間，到坑中極深之處。
Yet thou shalt be brought down to hell, to the sides of the pit.

14:16    凡看見你的，都要定睛看你，留意看你，說，使大地戰抖，使列國震動，
They that see thee shall narrowly look upon thee, and consider thee, saying, Is this the man that made the earth to tremble, that did shake kingdoms;

14:17    使世界如同荒野，使城邑傾覆，不釋放被擄的人歸家，是這個人嗎。
That made the world as a wilderness, and destroyed the cities thereof; that opened not the house of his prisoners?

14:18    列國的君王俱各在自己陰宅的榮耀中安睡。
All the kings of the nations, even all of them, lie in glory, every one in his own house.

14:19    惟獨你被拋棄，不得入你的墳墓，好像可憎的枝子。以被殺的人為衣，就是被刀刺透，墜落坑中石頭那裡的。你又像被踐踏的屍首一樣。
But thou art cast out of thy grave like an abominable branch, and as the raiment of those that are slain, thrust through with a sword, that go down to the stones of the pit; as a carcase trodden under feet.

14:20    你不得與君王同葬，因為你敗壞你的國，殺戮你的民。惡人後裔的名，必永不題說。
Thou shalt not be joined with them in burial, because thou hast destroyed thy land, and slain thy people: the seed of evildoers shall never be renowned.

14:21    先人既有罪孽，就要豫備殺戮他的子孫，免得他們興起來，得了遍地，在世上修滿城邑。
Prepare slaughter for his children for the iniquity of their fathers; that they do not rise, nor possess the land, nor fill the face of the world with cities.

14:22    萬軍之耶和華說，我必興起攻擊他們，將巴比倫的名號，和所餘剩的人，連子帶孫一併剪除。這是耶和華說的。
For I will rise up against them, saith the LORD of hosts, and cut off from Babylon the name, and remnant, and son, and nephew, saith the LORD.

14:23    我必使巴比倫為箭豬所得，又變為水池。我要用滅亡的掃帚掃淨他。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
I will also make it a possession for the bittern, and pools of water: and I will sweep it with the besom of destruction, saith the LORD of hosts.

14:24    萬軍之耶和華起誓，說，我怎樣思想，必照樣成就。我怎樣定意，必照樣成立。
The LORD of hosts hath sworn, saying, Surely as I have thought, so shall it come to pass; and as I have purposed, so shall it stand:

14:25    就是在我地上打折亞述人，在我山上將他踐踏，他加的軛，必離開以色列人。他加的重擔，必離開他們的肩頭。
That I will break the Assyrian in my land, and upon my mountains tread him under foot: then shall his yoke depart from off them, and his burden depart from off their shoulders.

14:26    這是向全地所定的旨意。這是向萬國所伸出的手。
This is the purpose that is purposed upon the whole earth: and this is the hand that is stretched out upon all the nations.

14:27    萬軍之耶和華既然定意，誰能廢棄呢。他的手已經伸出，誰能轉回呢。
For the LORD of hosts hath purposed, and who shall disannul it? and his hand is stretched out, and who shall turn it back?

14:28    亞哈斯王崩的那年，就有以下的默示。
In the year that king Ahaz died was this burden.

14:29    非利士全地阿，不要因擊打你的仗折斷就喜樂。因為從蛇的根，必生出毒蛇。他所生的，是火焰的飛龍。
Rejoice not thou, whole Palestina, because the rod of him that smote thee is broken: for out of the serpent's root shall come forth a cockatrice, and his fruit shall be a fiery flying serpent.

14:30    貧寒人的長子，必有所食，窮乏人必安然躺臥。我必以饑荒，治死你的根，你所餘剩的人，必被殺戮。
And the firstborn of the poor shall feed, and the needy shall lie down in safety: and I will kill thy root with famine, and he shall slay thy remnant.

14:31    門哪，應當哀號。城阿，應當呼喊。非利士全地阿，你都消化了。因為有煙從北方出來，他行伍中必無亂隊的。
Howl, O gate; cry, O city; thou, whole Palestina, art dissolved: for there shall come from the north a smoke, and none shall be alone in his appointed times.

14:32    可怎樣回答外邦的使者呢。（外邦或指非利士）必說，耶和華建立了錫安，他百姓中的困苦人，必投奔在其中。
What shall one then answer the messengers of the nation? That the LORD hath founded Zion, and the poor of his people shall trust in it.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


15:1    論摩押的默示。一夜之間，摩押的亞珥，變為荒廢，歸於無有。一夜之間，摩押的基珥，變為荒廢，歸於無有。
The burden of Moab. Because in the night Ar of Moab is laid waste, and brought to silence; because in the night Kir of Moab is laid waste, and brought to silence;

15:2    他們上巴益，又往底本，到高處去哭泣。摩押人因泥波和米底巴哀號，各人頭上光禿，鬍鬚剃淨。
He is gone up to Bajith, and to Dibon, the high places, to weep: Moab shall howl over Nebo, and over Medeba: on all their heads shall be baldness, and every beard cut off.

15:3    他們在街市上都腰束麻布，在房頂上和寬闊處，俱各哀號，眼淚汪汪。
In their streets they shall gird themselves with sackcloth: on the tops of their houses, and in their streets, every one shall howl, weeping abundantly.

15:4    希實本和以利亞利悲哀的聲音，達到雅雜。所以摩押帶兵器的高聲喊囔。人心戰兢。
And Heshbon shall cry, and Elealeh: their voice shall be heard even unto Jahaz: therefore the armed soldiers of Moab shall cry out; his life shall be grievous unto him.

15:5    我心為摩押悲哀，他的貴胄，（或作逃民）逃到瑣珥，到伊基拉，施利施亞。他們上魯希坡隨走隨哭。在何羅唸的路上，因毀滅舉起哀聲。
My heart shall cry out for Moab; his fugitives shall flee unto Zoar, an heifer of three years old: for by the mounting up of Luhith with weeping shall they go it up; for in the way of Horonaim they shall raise up a cry of destruction.

15:6    因為寧林的水成為乾涸。青草枯乾，嫩草滅沒，青綠之物，一無所有。
For the waters of Nimrim shall be desolate: for the hay is withered away, the grass faileth, there is no green thing.

15:7    因此，摩押人所得的財物，和所積蓄的，都要運過柳樹河。
Therefore the abundance they have gotten, and that which they have laid up, shall they carry away to the brook of the willows.

15:8    哀聲遍聞摩押的四境。哀號的聲音，達到以基蓮。哀號的聲音，達到比珥以琳。
For the cry is gone round about the borders of Moab; the howling thereof unto Eglaim, and the howling thereof unto Beerelim.

15:9    底們的水充滿了血。我還要加增底們的災難，叫獅子來追上摩押逃脫的民，和那地上所餘剩的人。
For the waters of Dimon shall be full of blood: for I will bring more upon Dimon, lions upon him that escapeth of Moab, and upon the remnant of the land.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


16:1    你們當將羊羔奉給那地掌權的，從西拉往曠野，送到錫安城的山。（城原文作女子）
Send ye the lamb to the ruler of the land from Sela to the wilderness, unto the mount of the daughter of Zion.

16:2    摩押的居民，（居民原文作女子）在亞嫩渡口，必像遊飛的鳥，如拆窩的雛。
For it shall be, that, as a wandering bird cast out of the nest, so the daughters of Moab shall be at the fords of Arnon.

16:3    求你獻謀略，行公平，使你的影子在午間如黑夜，隱藏被趕散的人，不可顯露逃民。
Take counsel, execute judgment; make thy shadow as the night in the midst of the noonday; hide the outcasts; bewray not him that wandereth.

16:4    求你容我這被趕散的人和你同居。至於摩押，求你作他的隱密處脫離滅命者的面。勒索人的歸於無有，毀滅的事止息了，欺壓人的從國中除滅了。
Let mine outcasts dwell with thee, Moab; be thou a covert to them from the face of the spoiler: for the extortioner is at an end, the spoiler ceaseth, the oppressors are consumed out of the land.

16:5    必有寶座因慈愛堅立。必有一位誠誠實實坐在其上，在大衛脹幕中施行審判，尋求公平，速行公義。
And in mercy shall the throne be established: and he shall sit upon it in truth in the tabernacle of David, judging, and seeking judgment, and hasting righteousness.

16:6    我們聽說摩押人驕傲，是極其驕傲，聽說他狂妄，驕傲，忿怒，他誇大的話，是虛空的。
We have heard of the pride of Moab; he is very proud: even of his haughtiness, and his pride, and his wrath: but his lies shall not be so.

16:7    因此，摩押人必為摩押哀號，人人都要哀號。你們摩押人要為吉珥哈列設的葡萄餅哀嘆，極其憂傷。
Therefore shall Moab howl for Moab, every one shall howl: for the foundations of Kirhareseth shall ye mourn; surely they are stricken.

16:8    因為希實本的田地，和西比瑪的葡萄樹，都衰殘了。列國的君主折斷其上美好的枝子。這枝子長到雅謝延到曠野。嫩枝向外探出，直探過鹽海。
For the fields of Heshbon languish, and the vine of Sibmah: the lords of the heathen have broken down the principal plants thereof, they are come even unto Jazer, they wandered through the wilderness: her branches are stretched out, they are gone over the sea.

16:9    因此，我要為西比瑪的葡萄樹哀哭，與雅謝人哀哭一樣。希實本，以利亞利阿，我要以眼淚澆灌你。因為有交戰吶喊的聲音，臨到你夏天的果子，並你收割的莊稼。
Therefore I will bewail with the weeping of Jazer the vine of Sibmah: I will water thee with my tears, O Heshbon, and Elealeh: for the shouting for thy summer fruits and for thy harvest is fallen.

16:10    從肥美的田中，奪去了歡喜快樂。在葡萄園裡，必無歌唱，也無歡樂的聲音。踹酒的在酒榨中不得踹出酒來。我使他歡呼的聲音止息。
And gladness is taken away, and joy out of the plentiful field; and in the vineyards there shall be no singing, neither shall there be shouting: the treaders shall tread out no wine in their presses; I have made their vintage shouting to cease.

16:11    因此我心腹為摩押哀嗚如琴，我心腸為吉珥哈列設，也是如此。
Wherefore my bowels shall sound like an harp for Moab, and mine inward parts for Kirharesh.

16:12    摩押人朝見的時候，在高處疲乏，又到他聖所祈禱，也不蒙應許。
And it shall come to pass, when it is seen that Moab is weary on the high place, that he shall come to his sanctuary to pray; but he shall not prevail.

16:13    這是耶和華從前論摩押的話。
This is the word that the LORD hath spoken concerning Moab since that time.

16:14    但現在耶和華說，三年之內，照僱工的年數，摩押的榮耀，與他的群眾，必被藐視，剩餘的人，甚少無幾。
But now the LORD hath spoken, saying, Within three years, as the years of an hireling, and the glory of Moab shall be contemned, with all that great multitude; and the remnant shall be very small and feeble.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


17:1    論大馬士革的默示。看哪，大馬士革已被廢棄，不再為城，必變作亂堆。
The burden of Damascus. Behold, Damascus is taken away from being a city, and it shall be a ruinous heap.

17:2    亞羅珥的城邑，已被撇棄。必成為牧羊之處，羊在那裡躺臥，無人驚嚇。
The cities of Aroer are forsaken: they shall be for flocks, which shall lie down, and none shall make them afraid.

17:3    以法蓮不再有保障。大馬士革不再有國權，亞蘭所剩下的，必像以色列人的榮耀消滅一樣。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
The fortress also shall cease from Ephraim, and the kingdom from Damascus, and the remnant of Syria: they shall be as the glory of the children of Israel, saith the LORD of hosts.

17:4    到那日雅各的榮耀，必至枵薄，他肥胖的身體，必漸瘦弱。
And in that day it shall come to pass, that the glory of Jacob shall be made thin, and the fatness of his flesh shall wax lean.

17:5    就必像收割的人，收斂禾稼，用手割取穗子。又像人在利乏音谷拾取遺落的穗子。
And it shall be as when the harvestman gathereth the corn, and reapeth the ears with his arm; and it shall be as he that gathereth ears in the valley of Rephaim.

17:6    其間所剩下的不多，好像人打橄欖樹，在盡上的枝梢上，只剩兩三個果子，在多果樹的旁枝上，只剩四五個果子。這是耶和華以色列的神說的。
Yet gleaning grapes shall be left in it, as the shaking of an olive tree, two or three berries in the top of the uppermost bough, four or five in the outmost fruitful branches thereof, saith the LORD God of Israel.

17:7    當那日人必仰望造他們的主，眼目重看以色列的聖者。
At that day shall a man look to his Maker, and his eyes shall have respect to the Holy One of Israel.

17:8    他們必不仰望祭壇，就是自己手所築的，也不重看自己指頭所作的，無論是木偶，或日像。
And he shall not look to the altars, the work of his hands, neither shall respect that which his fingers have made, either the groves, or the images.

17:9    在那日他們的堅固城，必像樹林中和山頂上所撇棄的地方，就是從前在以色列人面前被人撇棄的。這樣，地就荒涼了。
In that day shall his strong cities be as a forsaken bough, and an uppermost branch, which they left because of the children of Israel: and there shall be desolation.

17:10    因你忘記救你的神，不記念你能力的磐石。所以你栽上佳美的樹秧子，插上異樣的栽子。
Because thou hast forgotten the God of thy salvation, and hast not been mindful of the rock of thy strength, therefore shalt thou plant pleasant plants, and shalt set it with strange slips:

17:11    栽種的日子，你周圍圈上籬笆，又到早晨使你所種的開花。但在愁苦極其傷痛的日子，所收割的，都飛去了。
In the day shalt thou make thy plant to grow, and in the morning shalt thou make thy seed to flourish: but the harvest shall be a heap in the day of grief and of desperate sorrow.

17:12    唉，多民哄囔，好像海浪？？訇，列邦奔騰，好像猛水滔滔。
Woe to the multitude of many people, which make a noise like the noise of the seas; and to the rushing of nations, that make a rushing like the rushing of mighty waters!

17:13    列邦奔騰，好像多水滔滔。但神斥責他們，他們就遠遠逃避，又被追趕，如同山上的風前糠，又如暴風前的旋風土。
The nations shall rush like the rushing of many waters: but God shall rebuke them, and they shall flee far off, and shall be chased as the chaff of the mountains before the wind, and like a rolling thing before the whirlwind.

17:14    到晚上有驚嚇，未到早晨他們就沒有了。這是擄掠我們之人所得的分，是搶奪我們之人的報應。
And behold at eveningtide trouble; and before the morning he is not. This is the portion of them that spoil us, and the lot of them that rob us.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


18:1    唉，古實河外翅膀刷刷響聲之地，
Woe to the land shadowing with wings, which is beyond the rivers of Ethiopia:

18:2    差遣使者在水面上，坐蒲草船過海。先知說，你們快行的使者，要到高大光滑的民那裡去。自從開國以來那民極其可畏，是分地界踐踏人的，他們的地有江河分開。
That sendeth ambassadors by the sea, even in vessels of bulrushes upon the waters, saying, Go, ye swift messengers, to a nation scattered and peeled, to a people terrible from their beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden down, whose land the rivers have spoiled!

18:3    世上一切的居民，和地上所住的人哪，山上豎立大旗的時候，你們要看。吹角的時候，你們要聽。
All ye inhabitants of the world, and dwellers on the earth, see ye, when he lifteth up an ensign on the mountains; and when he bloweth a trumpet, hear ye.

18:4    耶和華對我這樣說，我要安靜，在我的居所觀看，如同日光中的清熱，又如露水的雲霧在收割的熱天。
For so the LORD said unto me, I will take my rest, and I will consider in my dwelling place like a clear heat upon herbs, and like a cloud of dew in the heat of harvest.

18:5    收割之先，花開已謝，花也成了將熟的葡萄，他必用鐮刀削去嫩枝，又砍掉蔓延的枝條。
For afore the harvest, when the bud is perfect, and the sour grape is ripening in the flower, he shall both cut off the sprigs with pruning hooks, and take away and cut down the branches.

18:6    都要撇給山間的鷙鳥，和地上的野獸。夏天鷙鳥要宿在其上，冬天野獸都臥在其中。
They shall be left together unto the fowls of the mountains, and to the beasts of the earth: and the fowls shall summer upon them, and all the beasts of the earth shall winter upon them.

18:7    到那時這高大光滑的民，就是從開國以來極其可畏，分地界踐踏人的，他們的地有江河分開，他們必將禮物奉給萬軍之耶和華，就是奉到錫安山，耶和華安置他名的地方。
In that time shall the present be brought unto the LORD of hosts of a people scattered and peeled, and from a people terrible from their beginning hitherto; a nation meted out and trodden under foot, whose land the rivers have spoiled, to the place of the name of the LORD of hosts, the mount Zion.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


19:1    論埃及的默示。看哪，耶和華乘駕快雲，臨到埃及。埃及的偶像在他面前山兢。埃及人的心在裡面消化。
The burden of Egypt. Behold, the LORD rideth upon a swift cloud, and shall come into Egypt: and the idols of Egypt shall be moved at his presence, and the heart of Egypt shall melt in the midst of it.

19:2    我必激動埃及人攻擊埃及人，弟兄攻擊弟兄，鄰舍攻擊鄰舍，這城攻擊那城，這國攻擊那國。
And I will set the Egyptians against the Egyptians: and they shall fight every one against his brother, and every one against his neighbour; city against city, and kingdom against kingdom.

19:3    埃及人的心神，必在裡面耗盡。我必敗壞他們的謀略。他們必求問偶像，和唸咒的，交鬼的，行巫術的。
And the spirit of Egypt shall fail in the midst thereof; and I will destroy the counsel thereof: and they shall seek to the idols, and to the charmers, and to them that have familiar spirits, and to the wizards.

19:4    我必將埃及人交在殘忍主的手中。強暴王必轄制他們。這是主萬軍之耶和華說的。
And the Egyptians will I give over into the hand of a cruel lord; and a fierce king shall rule over them, saith the Lord, the LORD of hosts.

19:5    海中的水必絕盡，河也消沒乾涸。
And the waters shall fail from the sea, and the river shall be wasted and dried up.

19:6    江河要變臭，埃及的河水，都必減少枯乾。葦子和蘆荻，都必衰殘。
And they shall turn the rivers far away; and the brooks of defence shall be emptied and dried up: the reeds and flags shall wither.

19:7    靠尼羅河旁的草田，並沿尼羅河所種的田，都必枯乾，莊稼被風吹去，歸於無有。
The paper reeds by the brooks, by the mouth of the brooks, and every thing sown by the brooks, shall wither, be driven away, and be no more.

19:8    打魚的必哀哭，在尼羅河一切釣魚的必悲傷，在水上撒網的，必都衰弱。
The fishers also shall mourn, and all they that cast angle into the brooks shall lament, and they that spread nets upon the waters shall languish.

19:9    用梳好的麻造物的，和織白布的，都必羞愧。
Moreover they that work in fine flax, and they that weave networks, shall be confounded.

19:10    國柱必被打碎，所有傭工的，心必愁煩。
And they shall be broken in the purposes thereof, all that make sluices and ponds for fish.

19:11    瑣安的首領，極其愚昧，法老大有智慧的謀士，所籌畫的，成為愚昧。你們怎敢對法老說，我是智慧人的子孫，我是古王的後裔。
Surely the princes of Zoan are fools, the counsel of the wise counsellors of Pharaoh is become brutish: how say ye unto Pharaoh, I am the son of the wise, the son of ancient kings?

19:12    你的智慧人在那裡呢。萬軍之耶和華向埃及所定的旨意，他們可以知道，可以告訴你吧。
Where are they? where are thy wise men? and let them tell thee now, and let them know what the LORD of hosts hath purposed upon Egypt.

19:13    瑣安的首領，都變為愚昧，挪弗的首領，都受了迷惑。當埃及支派房角石的使埃及人走錯了路。
The princes of Zoan are become fools, the princes of Noph are deceived; they have also seduced Egypt, even they that are the stay of the tribes thereof.

19:14    耶和華使乖謬的靈，攙入埃及中間。首領使埃及一切所作的都有差錯，好像醉酒之人嘔吐的時候，東倒西歪一樣。
The LORD hath mingled a perverse spirit in the midst thereof: and they have caused Egypt to err in every work thereof, as a drunken man staggereth in his vomit.



19:15    埃及中無論是頭與尾，棕枝與蘆葦，所作之工，都不成就。
Neither shall there be any work for Egypt, which the head or tail, branch or rush, may do.

19:16    到那日，埃及人必像婦人一樣。他們必因萬軍之耶和華在埃及以上所掄的手，戰兢懼怕。
In that day shall Egypt be like unto women: and it shall be afraid and fear because of the shaking of the hand of the LORD of hosts, which he shaketh over it.

19:17    猶大地必使埃及驚恐。向誰題起猶大地，誰就懼怕。這是因萬軍之耶和華向埃及所定得旨意。
And the land of Judah shall be a terror unto Egypt, every one that maketh mention thereof shall be afraid in himself, because of the counsel of the LORD of hosts, which he hath determined against it.

19:18    當那日埃及地必有五城的人說迦南的方言，又指著萬軍之耶和華起誓。有一城，必稱為滅亡城。
In that day shall five cities in the land of Egypt speak the language of Canaan, and swear to the LORD of hosts; one shall be called, The city of destruction.

19:19    當那日，在埃及地中必有為耶和華築的一座壇。在埃及的邊界上，必有為耶和華立的一根柱。
In that day shall there be an altar to the LORD in the midst of the land of Egypt, and a pillar at the border thereof to the LORD.

19:20    這都要在埃及地為萬軍之耶和華作記號和證據。埃及人因為受人的欺壓哀求耶和華，他就差遣一位救主，作護衛者，拯救他們。
And it shall be for a sign and for a witness unto the LORD of hosts in the land of Egypt: for they shall cry unto the LORD because of the oppressors, and he shall send them a saviour, and a great one, and he shall deliver them.

19:21    耶和華必被埃及人所認識。在那日埃及人必認識耶和華，也要獻祭物和供物敬拜他，並向耶和華許願還願。
And the LORD shall be known to Egypt, and the Egyptians shall know the LORD in that day, and shall do sacrifice and oblation; yea, they shall vow a vow unto the LORD, and perform it.

19:22    耶和華必擊打埃及，又擊打，又醫治，埃及人就歸向耶和華。他必應允他們的禱告，醫治他們。
And the LORD shall smite Egypt: he shall smite and heal it: and they shall return even to the LORD, and he shall be intreated of them, and shall heal them.

19:23    當那日必有從埃及通亞述去的大道。亞述人要進入埃及，埃及人也進入亞述。埃及人要與亞述人一同敬拜耶和華。
In that day shall there be a highway out of Egypt to Assyria, and the Assyrian shall come into Egypt, and the Egyptian into Assyria, and the Egyptians shall serve with the Assyrians.

19:24    當那日以色列必與埃及亞述三國一律，使地上的人得福。
In that day shall Israel be the third with Egypt and with Assyria, even a blessing in the midst of the land:

19:25    因萬軍之耶和華賜福給他們，說，埃及我的百姓，亞述我手的工作，以色列我的產業，都有福了。
Whom the LORD of hosts shall bless, saying, Blessed be Egypt my people, and Assyria the work of my hands, and Israel mine inheritance.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


20:1    亞述王撒珥根打發他珥探到亞實突的那年，他珥探就攻打亞實突，將城攻取。
In the year that Tartan came unto Ashdod, (when Sargon the king of Assyria sent him,) and fought against Ashdod, and took it;

20:2    那時耶和華曉諭亞摩斯的兒子以賽亞說，你去解掉你腰間的麻布，脫下你腳上的鞋。以賽亞就這樣作，露身赤腳行走。
At the same time spake the LORD by Isaiah the son of Amoz, saying, Go and loose the sackcloth from off thy loins, and put off thy shoe from thy foot. And he did so, walking naked and barefoot.

20:3    耶和華說，我僕人以賽亞怎樣露身赤腳行走三年，作為關乎埃及和古實的豫兆奇蹟。
And the LORD said, Like as my servant Isaiah hath walked naked and barefoot three years for a sign and wonder upon Egypt and upon Ethiopia;

20:4    照樣，亞述王也必擄去埃及人，掠去古實人，無論老少，都露身赤腳，現出下體，使埃及蒙羞。
So shall the king of Assyria lead away the Egyptians prisoners, and the Ethiopians captives, young and old, naked and barefoot, even with their buttocks uncovered, to the shame of Egypt.

20:5    以色列人必因所仰望的古實，所誇耀的埃及，驚惶羞愧。
And they shall be afraid and ashamed of Ethiopia their expectation, and of Egypt their glory.

20:6    那時這沿海一帶的居民必說，看哪，我們素所仰望的，就是我們為脫離亞述王逃往求救的，不過是如此。我們怎能逃脫呢。
And the inhabitant of this isle shall say in that day, Behold, such is our expectation, whither we flee for help to be delivered from the king of Assyria: and how shall we escape?




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


21:1    論海旁曠野的默示。有仇敵從曠野，從可怕之地而來，好像南方的旋風，猛然掃過。
The burden of the desert of the sea. As whirlwinds in the south pass through; so it cometh from the desert, from a terrible land.

21:2    令人悽慘的異象，已默示於我。詭詐的行詭詐，毀滅的行毀滅。以攔哪，你要上去。瑪代阿，你要圍困。主說，我使一切嘆息止住。
A grievous vision is declared unto me; the treacherous dealer dealeth treacherously, and the spoiler spoileth. Go up, O Elam: besiege, O Media; all the sighing thereof have I made to cease.

21:3    所以我滿腰疼痛。痛苦將我抓住，好像產難的婦人一樣。我疼痛甚至不能聽。我驚惶甚至不能看。
Therefore are my loins filled with pain: pangs have taken hold upon me, as the pangs of a woman that travaileth: I was bowed down at the hearing of it; I was dismayed at the seeing of it.

21:4    我心慌張，驚恐威嚇我，我所羨慕的黃昏，變為我的戰兢。
My heart panted, fearfulness affrighted me: the night of my pleasure hath he turned into fear unto me.

21:5    他們擺設筵席，派人守望，又吃又喝。首領阿，你們起來，用油抹盾牌。
Prepare the table, watch in the watchtower, eat, drink: arise, ye princes, and anoint the shield.

21:6    主對我如此說，你去設立守望的，使他將所看見的述說。
For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Go, set a watchman, let him declare what he seeth.

21:7    他看見軍隊，就是騎馬的一對一對的來，又看見驢隊，駱駝隊，就要側耳細聽。
And he saw a chariot with a couple of horsemen, a chariot of asses, and a chariot of camels; and he hearkened diligently with much heed:

21:8    他像獅子吼叫，說，主阿，我白日常站在望樓上，整夜立在我守望所。
And he cried, A lion: My lord, I stand continually upon the watchtower in the daytime, and I am set in my ward whole nights:

21:9    看哪，有一隊軍兵騎著馬，一對一對的來。他就說，巴比倫傾倒了。傾倒了，他一切雕刻的神像，都打碎於地。
And, behold, here cometh a chariot of men, with a couple of horsemen. And he answered and said, Babylon is fallen, is fallen; and all the graven images of her gods he hath broken unto the ground.

21:10    我被打的禾稼，我場上的谷阿，我從萬軍之耶和華以色列的神那裡所聽見的，都告訴你們了。
O my threshing, and the corn of my floor: that which I have heard of the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, have I declared unto you.

21:11    論度瑪的默示。有人聲從西珥呼問我，說，守望的阿，夜裡如何。守望的阿，夜裡如何。
The burden of Dumah. He calleth to me out of Seir, Watchman, what of the night? Watchman, what of the night?

21:12    守望的說，早晨將到，黑夜也來。你們若要問，就可以問，可以回頭再來。
The watchman said, The morning cometh, and also the night: if ye will enquire, enquire ye: return, come.

21:13    論阿拉伯的默示。底但結伴的客旅阿，你們必在阿拉伯的樹林中住宿。
The burden upon Arabia. In the forest in Arabia shall ye lodge, O ye travelling companies of Dedanim.

21:14    提瑪地的居民拿水來，送給口渴的，拿餅來迎接逃避的。
The inhabitants of the land of Tema brought water to him that was thirsty, they prevented with their bread him that fled.

21:15    因為他們逃避刀劍，和出了鞘的刀，並上了弦的弓，與刀兵的重災。
For they fled from the swords, from the drawn sword, and from the bent bow, and from the grievousness of war.

21:16    主對我這樣說，一年之內，照僱工的年數，基達的一切榮耀必歸於無有。
For thus hath the LORD said unto me, Within a year, according to the years of an hireling, and all the glory of Kedar shall fail:

21:17    弓箭手所餘剩的，就是基達人的勇士，必然稀少。因為這是耶和華以色列的神說的。
And the residue of the number of archers, the mighty men of the children of Kedar, shall be diminished: for the LORD God of Israel hath spoken it.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


22:1    論異象谷的默示。有什麼事使你這滿城的人都上房頂呢。
The burden of the valley of vision. What aileth thee now, that thou art wholly gone up to the housetops?

22:2    你這滿處吶喊，大有喧譁的城，歡樂的邑阿，你中間被殺的，並不是被刀殺，也不是因打仗死亡。
Thou that art full of stirs, a tumultuous city, a joyous city: thy slain men are not slain with the sword, nor dead in battle.

22:3    你所有的官長一同逃跑，都為弓箭手所捆綁。你中間一切被找到的都一同被捆綁。他們本是逃往遠方的。
All thy rulers are fled together, they are bound by the archers: all that are found in thee are bound together, which have fled from far.

22:4    所以我說，你們轉眼不看我，我要痛哭。不要因我眾民（原文作民女）的毀滅，就竭力安慰我。
Therefore said I, Look away from me; I will weep bitterly, labour not to comfort me, because of the spoiling of the daughter of my people.

22:5    因為主萬軍之耶和華使異象谷有潰亂，踐踏，煩擾的日子。城被攻破，哀聲達到山間。
For it is a day of trouble, and of treading down, and of perplexity by the Lord GOD of hosts in the valley of vision, breaking down the walls, and of crying to the mountains.

22:6    以欄帶著箭袋，還有坐戰車的和馬兵，吉珥揭開盾牌。
And Elam bare the quiver with chariots of men and horsemen, and Kir uncovered the shield.

22:7    你嘉美的谷遍滿戰車，也有馬兵在城門前排列。
And it shall come to pass, that thy choicest valleys shall be full of chariots, and the horsemen shall set themselves in array at the gate.

22:8    他去掉猶大的遮蓋。那日，你就仰望林庫內的軍器。
And he discovered the covering of Judah, and thou didst look in that day to the armour of the house of the forest.

22:9    你們看見大衛城的破口很多，便聚積下池的水。
Ye have seen also the breaches of the city of David, that they are many: and ye gathered together the waters of the lower pool.

22:10    又數點耶路撒冷的房屋，將房屋拆毀，修補城牆。
And ye have numbered the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses have ye broken down to fortify the wall.

22:11    又在兩道城牆中間挖一個聚水池，可盛舊池的水。卻不仰望作這事的主，也不顧念從古定這事的。
Ye made also a ditch between the two walls for the water of the old pool: but ye have not looked unto the maker thereof, neither had respect unto him that fashioned it long ago.

22:12    當那日，主萬軍之耶和華叫人哭泣哀號，頭上光禿，身披麻布。
And in that day did the Lord GOD of hosts call to weeping, and to mourning, and to baldness, and to girding with sackcloth:

22:13    誰知，人倒歡喜快樂，宰牛殺羊，吃肉喝酒，說，我們吃喝吧，因為明天要死了。
And behold joy and gladness, slaying oxen, and killing sheep, eating flesh, and drinking wine: let us eat and drink; for to morrow we shall die.

22:14    萬軍之耶和華親自默示我，說，這罪孽直到你們死，斷不得赦免。這是主萬軍之耶和華說的。
And it was revealed in mine ears by the LORD of hosts, Surely this iniquity shall not be purged from you till ye die, saith the Lord GOD of hosts.

22:15    主萬軍之耶和華這樣說，你去見掌銀庫的，就是家宰舍伯那，對他說，
Thus saith the Lord GOD of hosts, Go, get thee unto this treasurer, even unto Shebna, which is over the house, and say,

22:16    你在這裡作什麼呢。有什麼人竟在這裡鑿墳墓，就是在高處為自給鑿墳墓，在磐石中為自己鑿出安身之所。
What hast thou here? and whom hast thou here, that thou hast hewed thee out a sepulchre here, as he that heweth him out a sepulchre on high, and that graveth an habitation for himself in a rock?

22:17    看哪，耶和華必像大有力的人，將你緊緊纏裹，竭力拋去。
Behold, the LORD will carry thee away with a mighty captivity, and will surely cover thee.

22:18    他必將你輥成一團，拋在寬闊之地，好像拋球一樣。你這主人家的羞辱，必在那裡坐你榮耀的車，也必在那裡死亡。
He will surely violently turn and toss thee like a ball into a large country: there shalt thou die, and there the chariots of thy glory shall be the shame of thy lord's house.

22:19    我必趕逐你離開官職。你必從你的原位撤下。
And I will drive thee from thy station, and from thy state shall he pull thee down.

22:20    到那日我必召我僕人希勒家的兒子以利亞敬來。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will call my servant Eliakim the son of Hilkiah:

22:21    將你的外袍給他穿上，將你的腰帶給他繫緊，將你的政權交在他手中。他必作耶路撒冷居民和猶大家的父。
And I will clothe him with thy robe, and strengthen him with thy girdle, and I will commit thy government into his hand: and he shall be a father to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to the house of Judah.

22:22    我必將大衛家的鑰匙放在他肩頭上。他開，無人能關。他關，無人能開。
And the key of the house of David will I lay upon his shoulder; so he shall open, and none shall shut; and he shall shut, and none shall open.

22:23    我必將他安穩，像釘子釘在堅固處。他必作為他父家榮耀的寶座。
And I will fasten him as a nail in a sure place; and he shall be for a glorious throne to his father's house.



22:24    他父家所有的榮耀，連兒女帶子孫，都掛在他身上，好像一切小器皿，從杯子到酒瓶掛上一樣。
And they shall hang upon him all the glory of his father's house, the offspring and the issue, all vessels of small quantity, from the vessels of cups, even to all the vessels of flagons.

22:25    萬軍之耶和華說，當那日，釘在堅固處的釘子必壓斜，被砍斷落地。掛在其上的重擔必被剪斷。因為這是耶和華說的。
In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall the nail that is fastened in the sure place be removed, and be cut down, and fall; and the burden that was upon it shall be cut off: for the LORD hath spoken it.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


23:1    論推羅的默示。他施的船隻，都要哀號。因為推羅變為荒場，甚至沒有房屋，沒有可進之路。這訊息是從基提地得來的。
The burden of Tyre. Howl, ye ships of Tarshish; for it is laid waste, so that there is no house, no entering in: from the land of Chittim it is revealed to them.

23:2    沿海的居民，就是素來靠航海西頓的商家得豐盛的，你們當靜默無言。
Be still, ye inhabitants of the isle; thou whom the merchants of Zidon, that pass over the sea, have replenished.

23:3    在大水之上，西曷的糧食，尼羅河的莊稼，是推羅的進項。他作列國的大碼頭。
And by great waters the seed of Sihor, the harvest of the river, is her revenue; and she is a mart of nations.

23:4    西噸哪，你當慚愧。因為大海說，就是海中的保障說，我沒有劬勞，也沒有生產，沒有養育男子，也沒有撫養童女。
Be thou ashamed, O Zidon: for the sea hath spoken, even the strength of the sea, saying, I travail not, nor bring forth children, neither do I nourish up young men, nor bring up virgins.

23:5    這風聲傳到埃及，埃及人為推羅的風聲，極其疼痛。
As at the report concerning Egypt, so shall they be sorely pained at the report of Tyre.

23:6    推羅人哪，你們當過到他施去。沿海的居民哪，你們都當哀號。
Pass ye over to Tarshish; howl, ye inhabitants of the isle.

23:7    這是你們歡樂的城，從上古而有的嗎。其中的居民，往遠方寄居。
Is this your joyous city, whose antiquity is of ancient days? her own feet shall carry her afar off to sojourn.

23:8    推羅本是賜冠冕的。他的商家是王子，他的買賣人，是世上的尊貴人。遭遇如此，是誰定的呢。
Who hath taken this counsel against Tyre, the crowning city, whose merchants are princes, whose traffickers are the honourable of the earth?

23:9    是萬軍之耶和華所定的，為要汙辱一切高傲的榮耀，使地上一切的尊貴人被藐視。
The LORD of hosts hath purposed it, to stain the pride of all glory, and to bring into contempt all the honourable of the earth.

23:10    他施的民哪，（民原文作女）可以流行你的地，好像尼羅河，不再有腰帶拘緊你。
Pass through thy land as a river, O daughter of Tarshish: there is no more strength.

23:11    耶和華已經向海伸手，震動列國。至於迦南，他已經吩咐拆毀其中的保障。
He stretched out his hand over the sea, he shook the kingdoms: the LORD hath given a commandment against the merchant city, to destroy the strong holds thereof.

23:12    他又說，受欺壓西頓的居民哪，（居民原文作處女）你必不得再歡樂，起來，過到基提去。就是在那裡，也不得安歇。
And he said, Thou shalt no more rejoice, O thou oppressed virgin, daughter of Zidon: arise, pass over to Chittim; there also shalt thou have no rest.

23:13    看哪，迦勒底人之地向來沒有這民。這國是亞述人為住曠野的人所立的。現在他們建築戍樓，拆毀推羅的宮殿，使他成為荒涼。
Behold the land of the Chaldeans; this people was not, till the Assyrian founded it for them that dwell in the wilderness: they set up the towers thereof, they raised up the palaces thereof; and he brought it to ruin.

23:14    他施的船隻都要哀號。因為你們的保障便為荒場。
Howl, ye ships of Tarshish: for your strength is laid waste.

23:15    到那時推羅必被忘記七十年，照著一王的年日。七十年後，推羅的景況，必像妓女所唱的歌。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that Tyre shall be forgotten seventy years, according to the days of one king: after the end of seventy years shall Tyre sing as an harlot.

23:16    你這被忘記的妓女阿，拿琴周流城內，巧彈多唱，使人再想念你。
Take an harp, go about the city, thou harlot that hast been forgotten; make sweet melody, sing many songs, that thou mayest be remembered.

23:17    七十年後，耶和華必眷顧推羅，他就仍得利息，（原文作僱價下同）與地上的萬國交易。（原文作行淫）
And it shall come to pass after the end of seventy years, that the LORD will visit Tyre, and she shall turn to her hire, and shall commit fornication with all the kingdoms of the world upon the face of the earth.

23:18    他的貨財和利息，要歸耶和華為聖，必不積攢存留。因為他的貨財必為住在耶和華面前的人所得，使他們吃飽，穿耐久的衣服。
And her merchandise and her hire shall be holiness to the LORD: it shall not be treasured nor laid up; for her merchandise shall be for them that dwell before the LORD, to eat sufficiently, and for durable clothing.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


24:1    看哪，耶和華使地空虛，變為荒涼。又翻轉大地，將居民分散。
Behold, the LORD maketh the earth empty, and maketh it waste, and turneth it upside down, and scattereth abroad the inhabitants thereof.

24:2    那時百姓怎樣，祭司也怎樣。僕人怎樣，主人也怎樣。婢女怎樣，主母也怎樣。買物的怎樣，賣物的也怎樣。放債的怎樣，借債的也怎樣。取利的怎樣，出利的也怎樣。
And it shall be, as with the people, so with the priest; as with the servant, so with his master; as with the maid, so with her mistress; as with the buyer, so with the seller; as with the lender, so with the borrower; as with the taker of usury, so with the giver of usury to him.

24:3    地必全然空虛，盡都荒涼。因為這話是耶和華說的。
The land shall be utterly emptied, and utterly spoiled: for the LORD hath spoken this word.

24:4    地上悲哀衰殘，世界敗落衰殘，地上居高位的人也敗落了。
The earth mourneth and fadeth away, the world languisheth and fadeth away, the haughty people of the earth do languish.

24:5    地被其上的居民汙穢。因為他們犯了律法，廢了律例，背了永約。
The earth also is defiled under the inhabitants thereof; because they have transgressed the laws, changed the ordinance, broken the everlasting covenant.

24:6    所以地被咒詛吞滅，住在其上的顯為有罪。地上的居民被火焚燒，剩下的人稀少。
Therefore hath the curse devoured the earth, and they that dwell therein are desolate: therefore the inhabitants of the earth are burned, and few men left.

24:7    新酒悲哀，葡萄樹衰殘，心中歡樂的，俱都嘆息。
The new wine mourneth, the vine languisheth, all the merryhearted do sigh.

24:8    擊鼓之樂止息，宴樂人的聲音完畢，彈琴之樂也止息了。
The mirth of tabrets ceaseth, the noise of them that rejoice endeth, the joy of the harp ceaseth.

24:9    人必不得飲酒唱歌。喝濃酒的，必以為苦。
They shall not drink wine with a song; strong drink shall be bitter to them that drink it.

24:10    荒涼的城拆毀了。各家關門閉戶，使人都不得進去。
The city of confusion is broken down: every house is shut up, that no man may come in.

24:11    在街上因酒有悲歡的聲音。一切喜樂變為昏暗。地上的歡樂歸於無有。
There is a crying for wine in the streets; all joy is darkened, the mirth of the land is gone.

24:12    城中只有荒涼，城門拆毀淨盡。
In the city is left desolation, and the gate is smitten with destruction.

24:13    在地上的萬民中，必像打過的橄欖樹，又像已摘的葡萄所剩無幾。
When thus it shall be in the midst of the land among the people, there shall be as the shaking of an olive tree, and as the gleaning grapes when the vintage is done.

24:14    這些人要高聲歡呼。他們為耶和華的威嚴，從海那裡揚起聲來。
They shall lift up their voice, they shall sing for the majesty of the LORD, they shall cry aloud from the sea.

24:15    因此你們要在東方榮耀耶和華，在眾海島榮耀耶和華以色列神的名。
Wherefore glorify ye the LORD in the fires, even the name of the LORD God of Israel in the isles of the sea.

24:16    我們聽見從地極有人歌唱，說，榮耀歸於義人。我卻說，我消滅了，我消滅了，我有禍了。詭詐的行詭詐，詭詐的大行詭詐。
From the uttermost part of the earth have we heard songs, even glory to the righteous. But I said, My leanness, my leanness, woe unto me! the treacherous dealers have dealt treacherously; yea, the treacherous dealers have dealt very treacherously.

24:17    地上的居民哪，恐懼，陷坑，網羅，都臨近你。
Fear, and the pit, and the snare, are upon thee, O inhabitant of the earth.

24:18    躲避恐懼聲音的必墜入陷坑。從陷坑上來的必被網羅纏住。因為天上的窗戶都開了，地的根基也震動了。
And it shall come to pass, that he who fleeth from the noise of the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that cometh up out of the midst of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for the windows from on high are open, and the foundations of the earth do shake.

24:19    地全然破壞，盡都崩裂，大大的震動了。
The earth is utterly broken down, the earth is clean dissolved, the earth is moved exceedingly.

24:20    地要東倒西歪，好像醉酒的人。又搖來搖去，好像吊床。罪過在其上沉重，必然塌陷，不能復起。
The earth shall reel to and fro like a drunkard, and shall be removed like a cottage; and the transgression thereof shall be heavy upon it; and it shall fall, and not rise again.

24:21    到那日耶和華在高處必懲罰高處的眾軍，在地上必懲罰地上的列王，
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall punish the host of the high ones that are on high, and the kings of the earth upon the earth.

24:22    他們必被聚集，像囚犯被聚在牢獄中，並要囚在監牢裡，多日之後便被討罪。（或作眷顧）
And they shall be gathered together, as prisoners are gathered in the pit, and shall be shut up in the prison, and after many days shall they be visited.

24:23    那時月亮要蒙羞，日頭要慚愧。因為萬軍之耶和華必在錫安山，在耶路撒冷作王。在敬畏他的長老面前，必有榮耀。
Then the moon shall be confounded, and the sun ashamed, when the LORD of hosts shall reign in mount Zion, and in Jerusalem, and before his ancients gloriously.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


25:1    耶和華阿，你是我的神。我要尊崇你，我要稱讚你的名。因為你以忠信誠實行過奇妙的事。成就你古時所定的。
O Lord, thou art my God; I will exalt thee, I will praise thy name; for thou hast done wonderful things; thy counsels of old are faithfulness and truth.

25:2    你使城變為亂堆，使堅固城變為荒場，使外邦人宮殿的城，不再為城，永遠不再建造。
For thou hast made of a city an heap; of a defenced city a ruin: a palace of strangers to be no city; it shall never be built.

25:3    所以剛強的民，必榮耀你。強暴之國的城，必敬畏你。
Therefore shall the strong people glorify thee, the city of the terrible nations shall fear thee.

25:4    因為當強暴人催逼人的時候，如同暴風直吹牆壁，你就作貧窮人的保障，作睏乏人急難中的保障，作躲暴風之處，作避炎熱的陰涼。
For thou hast been a strength to the poor, a strength to the needy in his distress, a refuge from the storm, a shadow from the heat, when the blast of the terrible ones is as a storm against the wall.

25:5    你要壓制外邦人的喧譁，好像乾燥地的熱氣下落，禁止強暴人的凱歌，好像熱氣被雲影消化。
Thou shalt bring down the noise of strangers, as the heat in a dry place; even the heat with the shadow of a cloud: the branch of the terrible ones shall be brought low.

25:6    在這山上萬軍之耶和華，必為萬民用肥甘設擺筵席，用陳酒和滿髓的肥甘，並澄清的陳酒，設擺筵席。
And in this mountain shall the LORD of hosts make unto all people a feast of fat things, a feast of wines on the lees, of fat things full of marrow, of wines on the lees well refined.

25:7    他又必在這山上，除滅遮蓋萬民之物，和遮蔽萬國蒙臉的帕子。
And he will destroy in this mountain the face of the covering cast over all people, and the vail that is spread over all nations.

25:8    他已經吞滅死亡直到永遠。主耶和華必擦去各人臉上的眼淚，賽25：08B）又除掉普天下他百姓的羞辱。因為這是耶和華說的。
He will swallow up death in victory; and the Lord GOD will wipe away tears from off all faces; and the rebuke of his people shall he take away from off all the earth: for the LORD hath spoken it.

25:9    到那日人必說，看哪，這是我們的神。我們素來等候他，他必拯救我們，這是耶和華，我們素來等候他，我們必因他的救恩。歡喜快樂。
And it shall be said in that day, Lo, this is our God; we have waited for him, and he will save us: this is the LORD; we have waited for him, we will be glad and rejoice in his salvation.

25:10    耶和華的手，必按在這山上。摩押人在所居之地必被踐踏，好像乾草被踐踏在糞池的水中。
For in this mountain shall the hand of the LORD rest, and Moab shall be trodden down under him, even as straw is trodden down for the dunghill.

25:11    他必在其中伸開手，好像？？水的伸開手？？水一樣。但耶和華必使他的驕傲，和他手所行的詭計，一併敗落。
And he shall spread forth his hands in the midst of them, as he that swimmeth spreadeth forth his hands to swim: and he shall bring down their pride together with the spoils of their hands.

25:12    耶和華使你城上的堅固高臺傾倒，拆平直到塵埃。
And the fortress of the high fort of thy walls shall he bring down, lay low, and bring to the ground, even to the dust.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


26:1    當那日在猶大地人必唱這歌，說，我們有堅固的城。耶和華要將救恩定為城牆，為外郭。
In that day shall this song be sung in the land of Judah; We have a strong city; salvation will God appoint for walls and bulwarks.



26:2    敝開城門，使守信的義民得以進入。
Open ye the gates, that the righteous nation which keepeth the truth may enter in.

26:3    堅心倚賴你的，你必保守他十分平安，因為他倚靠你。
Thou wilt keep him in perfect peace, whose mind is stayed on thee: because he trusteth in thee.

26:4    你們當倚靠耶和華直到永遠。因為耶和華是永久的磐石。
Trust ye in the LORD for ever: for in the LORD JEHOVAH is everlasting strength:

26:5    他使住高處的，與高城一併敗落，將城拆毀，拆平直到塵埃。
For he bringeth down them that dwell on high; the lofty city, he layeth it low; he layeth it low, even to the ground; he bringeth it even to the dust.

26:6    要被腳踐踏，就是被困苦人的腳，和窮乏人的腳踐踏。
The foot shall tread it down, even the feet of the poor, and the steps of the needy.

26:7    義人的道，是正直的，你為正直的主，必修平義人的路。
The way of the just is uprightness: thou, most upright, dost weigh the path of the just.

26:8    耶和華阿，我們在你行審判的路上等候你。我們心裡所羨慕的是你的名，就是你那可記念的名。
Yea, in the way of thy judgments, O LORD, have we waited for thee; the desire of our soul is to thy name, and to the remembrance of thee.

26:9    夜間我心中羨慕你。我裡面的靈切切尋求你。因為你在世上行審判的時候，地上的居民就學習公義。
With my soul have I desired thee in the night; yea, with my spirit within me will I seek thee early: for when thy judgments are in the earth, the inhabitants of the world will learn righteousness.

26:10    以恩惠待惡人，他仍不學習公義。在正直的地上，他必行事不義，也不注意耶和華的威嚴。
Let favour be shewed to the wicked, yet will he not learn righteousness: in the land of uprightness will he deal unjustly, and will not behold the majesty of the LORD.

26:11    耶和華阿，你的手高舉，他們仍然不看。卻要看你為百姓發的熱心，因而抱愧。並且有火燒滅你的敵人。
LORD, when thy hand is lifted up, they will not see: but they shall see, and be ashamed for their envy at the people; yea, the fire of thine enemies shall devour them.

26:12    耶和華阿，你必派定我們得平安。因為我們所作的事，都是你給我們成就的。
LORD, thou wilt ordain peace for us: for thou also hast wrought all our works in us.

26:13    耶和華我們的神阿，在你以外曾有別的主管轄我們，但我們專要倚靠你，題你的名。
O LORD our God, other lords beside thee have had dominion over us: but by thee only will we make mention of thy name.

26:14    他們死了，必不能再活。他們去世，必不能再起。因為你刑罰他們，他們的名號就全然消滅。
They are dead, they shall not live; they are deceased, they shall not rise: therefore hast thou visited and destroyed them, and made all their memory to perish.

26:15    耶和華阿，你增添國民，你增添國民。你得了榮耀，又擴張地的四境。
Thou hast increased the nation, O LORD, thou hast increased the nation: thou art glorified: thou hadst removed it far unto all the ends of the earth.

26:16    耶和華阿，他們在急難中尋求你。你的懲罰臨到他們身上，他們就傾心吐膽禱告你。
LORD, in trouble have they visited thee, they poured out a prayer when thy chastening was upon them.

26:17    婦人懷孕，臨產疼痛，在痛苦之中喊叫，耶和華阿，我們在你面前，也是如此。
Like as a woman with child, that draweth near the time of her delivery, is in pain, and crieth out in her pangs; so have we been in thy sight, O LORD.

26:18    我們也曾懷孕疼痛，所產的竟像風一樣，我們在地上未曾行什麼拯救的事。世上的居民也未曾敗落。
We have been with child, we have been in pain, we have as it were brought forth wind; we have not wrought any deliverance in the earth; neither have the inhabitants of the world fallen.

26:19    死人（原文作你的死人）要復活。屍首（原文作我的屍首）要興起。睡在塵埃的阿，要醒起唱歌。因你的甘露好像菜蔬上的甘露，地也要交出死人來。
Thy dead men shall live, together with my dead body shall they arise. Awake and sing, ye that dwell in dust: for thy dew is as the dew of herbs, and the earth shall cast out the dead.

26:20    我的百姓阿，你們要來進入內室，關上門，隱藏片時，等到忿怒過去。
Come, my people, enter thou into thy chambers, and shut thy doors about thee: hide thyself as it were for a little moment, until the indignation be overpast.

26:21    因為耶和華從他的居民所出來，要刑罰地上居民的罪孽。地也必露出其中的血，不再掩蓋被殺的人。
For, behold, the LORD cometh out of his place to punish the inhabitants of the earth for their iniquity: the earth also shall disclose her blood, and shall no more cover her slain.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


27:1    到那日，耶和華必用他剛硬有力的大刀，刑罰鱷魚，就是那快行的蛇，刑罰鱷魚，就是那曲行的蛇。並殺海中的大魚。
In that day the LORD with his sore and great and strong sword shall punish leviathan the piercing serpent, even leviathan that crooked serpent; and he shall slay the dragon that is in the sea.

27:2    當那日有出酒的葡萄園。你們要指這園唱歌，說，
In that day sing ye unto her, A vineyard of red wine.

27:3    我耶和華是看守葡萄園的，我必時刻澆灌，晝夜看守，免得有人損害。
I the LORD do keep it; I will water it every moment: lest any hurt it, I will keep it night and day.

27:4    我心中不存忿怒。惟願荊棘蒺藜與我交戰，我就勇往直前，把他一同焚燒。
Fury is not in me: who would set the briers and thorns against me in battle? I would go through them, I would burn them together.

27:5    不然，讓他持住我的能力，使他與我和好。願他與我和好。
Or let him take hold of my strength, that he may make peace with me; and he shall make peace with me.

27:6    將來雅各要紮根，以色列要發芽開花。他們的果實，必充滿世界。
He shall cause them that come of Jacob to take root: Israel shall blossom and bud, and fill the face of the world with fruit.

27:7    主擊打他們，豈像擊打那些擊打他們的人嗎。他們被殺戮，豈像被他們所殺戮的嗎。
Hath he smitten him, as he smote those that smote him? or is he slain according to the slaughter of them that are slain by him?

27:8    你打發他們去，是相機宜與他們相爭。刮東風的日子，就用暴風將他們逐去。
In measure, when it shooteth forth, thou wilt debate with it: he stayeth his rough wind in the day of the east wind.

27:9    所以雅各的罪孽得赦免，他的罪過得除掉的果效，全在乎此。就是他叫祭壇的石頭，變為打碎的灰石，以致木偶和日像，不再立起。
By this therefore shall the iniquity of Jacob be purged; and this is all the fruit to take away his sin; when he maketh all the stones of the altar as chalkstones that are beaten in sunder, the groves and images shall not stand up.

27:10    因為堅固城變為淒涼，成了撇下離棄的居所，像曠野一樣，牛犢必在那裡吃草，在那裡躺臥，並吃盡其中的樹枝。
Yet the defenced city shall be desolate, and the habitation forsaken, and left like a wilderness: there shall the calf feed, and there shall he lie down, and consume the branches thereof.

27:11    枝條枯乾，必被折斷。婦女要來，點火燒著，因為為這百姓矇昧無知，所以創造他們的，必不憐恤他們，造成他們的，也不施恩與他們。
When the boughs thereof are withered, they shall be broken off: the women come, and set them on fire: for it is a people of no understanding: therefore he that made them will not have mercy on them, and he that formed them will shew them no favour.

27:12    以色列人哪，到那日，耶和華必從大河，直到埃及小河，將你們一一的收集，如同人打樹拾果一樣。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the LORD shall beat off from the channel of the river unto the stream of Egypt, and ye shall be gathered one by one, O ye children of Israel.

27:13    當那日，必大發角聲。在亞述地將要滅亡的，必在埃及地被趕散的，都要來。他們就在耶路撒冷聖山上敬拜耶和華。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the great trumpet shall be blown, and they shall come which were ready to perish in the land of Assyria, and the outcasts in the land of Egypt, and shall worship the LORD in the holy mount at Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


28:1    禍哉，以法蓮的酒徒，住在肥美谷的山上，他們心裡高傲，以所誇的為冠冕，猶如將殘之花。
Woe to the crown of pride, to the drunkards of Ephraim, whose glorious beauty is a fading flower, which are on the head of the fat valleys of them that are overcome with wine!

28:2    看哪，主有一大能大力者，像一陣冰雹，像毀滅的暴風，像漲溢的大水，他必用手將冠冕摔落於地。
Behold, the Lord hath a mighty and strong one, which as a tempest of hail and a destroying storm, as a flood of mighty waters overflowing, shall cast down to the earth with the hand.

28:3    以法蓮高傲的酒徒，他的冠冕，必被踏在腳下。
The crown of pride, the drunkards of Ephraim, shall be trodden under feet:

28:4    那榮美將殘之花，就是在肥美谷山上的，必像夏令以前初熟的無花果。看見這果的就注意，一到手中就吞吃了。
And the glorious beauty, which is on the head of the fat valley, shall be a fading flower, and as the hasty fruit before the summer; which when he that looketh upon it seeth, while it is yet in his hand he eateth it up.

28:5    到那日，萬軍之耶和華必作他餘剩之民的榮冠華冕。
In that day shall the LORD of hosts be for a crown of glory, and for a diadem of beauty, unto the residue of his people,

28:6    也作了在位上行審判者公平之靈，並城門口打退仇敵者的力量。
And for a spirit of judgment to him that sitteth in judgment, and for strength to them that turn the battle to the gate.

28:7    就是這地的人，因酒搖搖晃晃，因濃酒東倒西歪。祭司和先知因濃酒搖搖晃晃，被酒所困，因濃酒東倒西歪。他們錯解默示，謬行審判。
But they also have erred through wine, and through strong drink are out of the way; the priest and the prophet have erred through strong drink, they are swallowed up of wine, they are out of the way through strong drink; they err in vision, they stumble in judgment.

28:8    因為各席上滿了嘔吐的汙穢，無一處乾淨。
For all tables are full of vomit and filthiness, so that there is no place clean.

28:9    譏誚先知的說，他要將知識指教誰呢，要使誰明白傳言呢。是那剛斷奶離懷的嗎。
Whom shall he teach knowledge? and whom shall he make to understand doctrine? them that are weaned from the milk, and drawn from the breasts.

28:10    他竟命上加命，令上加令，律上加律，例上加例，這裡一點，那裡一點。
For precept must be upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little:

28:11    先知說，不然，主要藉異邦人的嘴脣，和外邦人的舌頭，對這百姓說話。
For with stammering lips and another tongue will he speak to this people.

28:12    他曾對他們說，你們要使疲乏人得安息。這樣才得安息，才得舒暢。他們卻不肯聽。
To whom he said, This is the rest wherewith ye may cause the weary to rest; and this is the refreshing: yet they would not hear.

28:13    所以耶和華向他們說的話，是命上加命，令上加令，律上加律，例上加例，這裡一點，那裡一點，以致他們前行仰面跌倒，而且跌碎，並陷入網羅，被纏住。
But the word of the LORD was unto them precept upon precept, precept upon precept; line upon line, line upon line; here a little, and there a little; that they might go, and fall backward, and be broken, and snared, and taken.

28:14    所以你們這些褻慢的人，就是轄管住在耶路撒冷這百姓的，要聽耶和華的話。
Wherefore hear the word of the LORD, ye scornful men, that rule this people which is in Jerusalem.

28:15    你們曾說，我們與死亡立約，與陰間結盟。敵軍（原文作鞭子）如水漲漫經過的時候，必不臨到我們。因我們以謊言為避所，在虛假以下藏身。
Because ye have said, We have made a covenant with death, and with hell are we at agreement; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, it shall not come unto us: for we have made lies our refuge, and under falsehood have we hid ourselves:

28:16    所以主耶和華如此說，看哪，我在錫安放一塊石頭，作為根基，是試驗過的石頭，是穩固根基，寶貴的房角石，信靠的人必不著急。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, I lay in Zion for a foundation a stone, a tried stone, a precious corner stone, a sure foundation: he that believeth shall not make haste.

28:17    我必以公平為準繩，以公義為線鉈。冰雹必衝去謊言的避所，大水必漫過藏身之處。
Judgment also will I lay to the line, and righteousness to the plummet: and the hail shall sweep away the refuge of lies, and the waters shall overflow the hiding place.

28:18    你們與死亡所立的約，必然廢掉，與陰間所結的盟，必立不住。敵軍（原文作鞭子）如水漲漫經過的時候，你們必被他踐踏。
And your covenant with death shall be disannulled, and your agreement with hell shall not stand; when the overflowing scourge shall pass through, then ye shall be trodden down by it.

28:19    每逢經過必將你們擄去。因為每早晨他必經過，白晝黑夜都必如此。明白傳言的，必受驚恐。
From the time that it goeth forth it shall take you: for morning by morning shall it pass over, by day and by night: and it shall be a vexation only to understand the report.

28:20    原來床榻短，使人不能舒身。被窩窄，使人不能遮體。
For the bed is shorter than that a man can stretch himself on it: and the covering narrower than that he can wrap himself in it.

28:21    耶和華必興起，像在毗拉心山，他必發怒，像在基遍谷，好作成他的工，就是非常的工，成就他的事，就是奇異的事。
For the LORD shall rise up as in mount Perazim, he shall be wroth as in the valley of Gibeon, that he may do his work, his strange work; and bring to pass his act, his strange act.

28:22    現在你們不可褻慢，恐怕捆你們的綁索更結實了。因為我從主萬軍之耶和華那裡聽見已經決定，在全地上施行滅絕的事。
Now therefore be ye not mockers, lest your bands be made strong: for I have heard from the Lord GOD of hosts a consumption, even determined upon the whole earth.

28:23    你們當側耳聽我的聲音，留心聽我的言語。
Give ye ear, and hear my voice; hearken, and hear my speech.

28:24    那耕地為要撒種的，豈是常常耕地呢，豈是常常開墾耙地呢。
Doth the plowman plow all day to sow? doth he open and break the clods of his ground?

28:25    他拉平了地面，豈不就撒種小茴香，播種大茴香，按行列種小麥，在定處種大麥，在田邊種粗麥呢。
When he hath made plain the face thereof, doth he not cast abroad the fitches, and scatter the cummin, and cast in the principal wheat and the appointed barley and the rie in their place?

28:26    因為他的神教導他務農相宜，並且指教他。
For his God doth instruct him to discretion, and doth teach him.

28:27    原來打小茴香，不用尖利的器具，軋大茴香，也不用碌碡。（原文作車輪下同）但用杖打小茴香，用棍打大茴香。
For the fitches are not threshed with a threshing instrument, neither is a cart wheel turned about upon the cummin; but the fitches are beaten out with a staff, and the cummin with a rod.

28:28    作餅的糧食是用磨磨碎，因他不必常打。雖用碌碡和馬打散，卻不磨他。
Bread corn is bruised; because he will not ever be threshing it, nor break it with the wheel of his cart, nor bruise it with his horsemen.

28:29    這也是出於萬軍之耶和華。他的謀略奇妙，他的智慧廣大。
This also cometh forth from the LORD of hosts, which is wonderful in counsel, and excellent in working.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


29:1    唉，亞利伊勒，亞利伊勒，大衛安營的城。任憑你年上加年，節期照常周流。
Woe to Ariel, to Ariel, the city where David dwelt! add ye year to year; let them kill sacrifices.

29:2    我終必使亞利伊勒困難。他必悲傷哀號，我卻仍以他為亞利伊勒。
Yet I will distress Ariel, and there shall be heaviness and sorrow: and it shall be unto me as Ariel.

29:3    我必四圍安營攻擊你，屯兵圍困你，築壘攻擊你。
And I will camp against thee round about, and will lay siege against thee with a mount, and I will raise forts against thee.

29:4    你必敗落，從地中說話。你的言語必微細出於塵埃。你的聲音必像那交鬼者的聲音出於地。你的言語低低微微出於塵埃。
And thou shalt be brought down, and shalt speak out of the ground, and thy speech shall be low out of the dust, and thy voice shall be, as of one that hath a familiar spirit, out of the ground, and thy speech shall whisper out of the dust.

29:5    你仇敵的群眾，卻要像細塵，強暴人的群眾，也要像飛糠。這事必頃刻之間忽然臨到。
Moreover the multitude of thy strangers shall be like small dust, and the multitude of the terrible ones shall be as chaff that passeth away: yea, it shall be at an instant suddenly.

29:6    萬軍之耶和華必用雷轟，地震，大聲，旋風，暴風，併吞滅的火焰，向他討罪。
Thou shalt be visited of the LORD of hosts with thunder, and with earthquake, and great noise, with storm and tempest, and the flame of devouring fire.

29:7    那時，攻擊亞利伊勒列國的群眾，就是一切攻擊亞利伊勒和他的保障，並使他困難的，必如夢景，如夜間的異象。
And the multitude of all the nations that fight against Ariel, even all that fight against her and her munition, and that distress her, shall be as a dream of a night vision.

29:8    又必像飢餓的人，夢中吃飯，醒了仍覺腹空。或像口渴的人，夢中喝水，醒了仍覺發昏，心裡想喝。攻擊錫安山列國的群眾，也必如此。
It shall even be as when an hungry man dreameth, and, behold, he eateth; but he awaketh, and his soul is empty: or as when a thirsty man dreameth, and, behold, he drinketh; but he awaketh, and, behold, he is faint, and his soul hath appetite: so shall the multitude of all the nations be, that fight against mount Zion.

29:9    你們等候驚奇吧。你們宴樂昏迷吧。他們醉了，卻非因酒。他們東倒西歪，卻非因濃酒。
Stay yourselves, and wonder; cry ye out, and cry: they are drunken, but not with wine; they stagger, but not with strong drink.

29:10    因為耶和華將沉睡的靈，澆灌你們，封閉你們的眼，蒙蓋你們的頭。你們的眼，就是先知。你們的頭，就是先見。
For the LORD hath poured out upon you the spirit of deep sleep, and hath closed your eyes: the prophets and your rulers, the seers hath he covered.

29:11    所有的默示你們看如封住的書卷。人將這書卷交給識字的，說，請唸吧。他說，我不能念，因為是封住了。
And the vision of all is become unto you as the words of a book that is sealed, which men deliver to one that is learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I cannot; for it is sealed:

29:12    又將這書卷交給不識字的人，說，請唸吧。他說，我不識字。
And the book is delivered to him that is not learned, saying, Read this, I pray thee: and he saith, I am not learned.

29:13    主說，因為這百姓親近我，用嘴脣尊敬我，心卻遠離我。他們敬畏我，不過是領受人的吩咐。
Wherefore the Lord said, Forasmuch as this people draw near me with their mouth, and with their lips do honour me, but have removed their heart far from me, and their fear toward me is taught by the precept of men:

29:14    所以我在這百姓中要行奇妙的事，就是奇妙又奇妙的事。他們智慧人的智慧，必然消滅，聰明人的聰明，必然隱藏。
Therefore, behold, I will proceed to do a marvellous work among this people, even a marvellous work and a wonder: for the wisdom of their wise men shall perish, and the understanding of their prudent men shall be hid.

29:15    禍哉，那些向耶和華深藏謀略的，又在暗中行事，說，誰看見我們呢。誰知道我們呢。
Woe unto them that seek deep to hide their counsel from the LORD, and their works are in the dark, and they say, Who seeth us? and who knoweth us?

29:16    你們把事顛倒了，豈可看窯匠如泥嗎。被製作的物，豈可論製作物的說，他沒有製作我。或是被創造的物論造物的說，他沒有聰明。
Surely your turning of things upside down shall be esteemed as the potter's clay: for shall the work say of him that made it, He made me not? or shall the thing framed say of him that framed it, He had no understanding?

29:17    黎巴嫩變為肥田，肥田看如樹林，不是隻有一點點時候嗎。
Is it not yet a very little while, and Lebanon shall be turned into a fruitful field, and the fruitful field shall be esteemed as a forest?

29:18    那時，聾子必聽見這書上的話。瞎子的眼，必從迷濛黑暗中得以看見。
And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness.

29:19    謙卑人，必因耶和華增添歡喜。人間貧窮的，必因以色列的聖者快樂。
The meek also shall increase their joy in the LORD, and the poor among men shall rejoice in the Holy One of Israel.

29:20    因為強暴人已歸無有。褻慢人已經滅絕。一切找機會作孽的，都被剪除。
For the terrible one is brought to nought, and the scorner is consumed, and all that watch for iniquity are cut off:

29:21    他們在爭訟的事上，定無罪的為有罪，為城門口責備人的，設下網羅，用虛無的事，屈枉義人。
That make a man an offender for a word, and lay a snare for him that reproveth in the gate, and turn aside the just for a thing of nought.

29:22    所以救贖亞伯拉罕的耶和華，論雅各家如此說，雅各必不再羞愧，面容也不至變色。
Therefore thus saith the LORD, who redeemed Abraham, concerning the house of Jacob, Jacob shall not now be ashamed, neither shall his face now wax pale.

29:23    但他看見他的眾子，就是我手的工作，在他那裡，他們必尊我的名為聖，必尊雅各的聖者為聖，必敬畏以色列的神。
But when he seeth his children, the work of mine hands, in the midst of him, they shall sanctify my name, and sanctify the Holy One of Jacob, and shall fear the God of Israel.

29:24    心中迷糊的，必得明白，發怨言的，必受訓誨。
They also that erred in spirit shall come to understanding, and they that murmured shall learn doctrine.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


30:1    耶和華說，禍哉，這悖逆的兒女。他們同謀，卻不由於我，結盟，卻不由於我的靈，以至罪上加罪。
Woe to the rebellious children, saith the LORD, that take counsel, but not of me; and that cover with a covering, but not of my spirit, that they may add sin to sin:

30:2    起身下埃及去，並沒有求問我。要靠法老的力量，加添自己的力量，並投在埃及的蔭下。
That walk to go down into Egypt, and have not asked at my mouth; to strengthen themselves in the strength of Pharaoh, and to trust in the shadow of Egypt!

30:3    所以法老的力量，必作你們的羞辱，投在埃及的蔭下，要為你們的慚愧。
Therefore shall the strength of Pharaoh be your shame, and the trust in the shadow of Egypt your confusion.

30:4    他們的首領已在瑣安，他們的使臣到了哈內斯。
For his princes were at Zoan, and his ambassadors came to Hanes.

30:5    他們必因那不利於他們的民蒙羞。那民並非幫助，也非利益，只作羞恥凌辱。
They were all ashamed of a people that could not profit them, nor be an help nor profit, but a shame, and also a reproach.

30:6    論南方牲畜的默示。他們把財物馱在驢駒的脊背上，將寶物馱在駱駝的肉鞍上，經過艱難困苦之地，就是公獅，母獅，蝮蛇，火焰的飛龍之地，往那不利於他們的民那裡去。
The burden of the beasts of the south: into the land of trouble and anguish, from whence come the young and old lion, the viper and fiery flying serpent, they will carry their riches upon the shoulders of young asses, and their treasures upon the bunches of camels, to a people that shall not profit them.

30:7    埃及的幫助是徒然無益的。所以我稱他為坐而不動的拉哈伯。
For the Egyptians shall help in vain, and to no purpose: therefore have I cried concerning this, Their strength is to sit still.

30:8    現今你去，在他們面前將這話刻在版上，寫在書上，以便留傳後世，直到永永遠遠。
Now go, write it before them in a table, and note it in a book, that it may be for the time to come for ever and ever:

30:9    因為他們是悖逆的百姓，說謊的兒女，不肯聽從耶和華訓誨的兒女。
That this is a rebellious people, lying children, children that will not hear the law of the LORD:

30:10    他們對先見說，不要望見不吉利的事，對先知說，不要向我們講正直的話，要向我們說柔和的話，言虛幻的事。
Which say to the seers, See not; and to the prophets, Prophesy not unto us right things, speak unto us smooth things, prophesy deceits:

30:11    你們要離棄正道，偏離直路。不要在我們面前，再題說以色列的聖者。
Get you out of the way, turn aside out of the path, cause the Holy One of Israel to cease from before us.

30:12    所以以色列的聖者如此說，因為你們藐視這訓誨的話，依賴欺壓和乖僻，以此為可靠的。
Wherefore thus saith the Holy One of Israel, Because ye despise this word, and trust in oppression and perverseness, and stay thereon:

30:13    故此，這罪孽在你們身上，好像將要破裂凸出來的高牆，頃刻之間，忽然坍塌。
Therefore this iniquity shall be to you as a breach ready to fall, swelling out in a high wall, whose breaking cometh suddenly at an instant.

30:14    要被打碎，好像把窯匠的瓦器打碎，毫不顧惜，甚至碎塊中找不到一片，可用以從爐內取火，從池中舀水。
And he shall break it as the breaking of the potters' vessel that is broken in pieces; he shall not spare: so that there shall not be found in the bursting of it a sherd to take fire from the hearth, or to take water withal out of the pit.

30:15    主耶和華以色列的聖者曾如此說，你們得救在乎歸回安息。你們得力在乎平靜安穩。你們竟自不肯。
For thus saith the Lord GOD, the Holy One of Israel; In returning and rest shall ye be saved; in quietness and in confidence shall be your strength: and ye would not.

30:16    你們卻說，不然，我們要騎馬奔走。所以你們必然奔走。又說，我們要騎飛快的牲口。所以追趕你們的，也必飛快。
But ye said, No; for we will flee upon horses; therefore shall ye flee: and, We will ride upon the swift; therefore shall they that pursue you be swift.

30:17    一人叱喝，必令千人逃跑。五人叱喝，你們都必逃跑。以致剩下的，好像山頂的旗杆，岡上的大旗。
One thousand shall flee at the rebuke of one; at the rebuke of five shall ye flee: till ye be left as a beacon upon the top of a mountain, and as an ensign on an hill.

30:18    耶和華必然等候，要施恩給你們。必然興起，好憐憫你們。因為耶和華是公平的神。凡等候他的，都是有福的。
And therefore will the LORD wait, that he may be gracious unto you, and therefore will he be exalted, that he may have mercy upon you: for the LORD is a God of judgment: blessed are all they that wait for him.

30:19    百姓必在錫安在耶路撒冷居住。你不再哭泣。主必因你哀求的聲音施恩給你。他聽見的時候，就必應允你。
For the people shall dwell in Zion at Jerusalem: thou shalt weep no more: he will be very gracious unto thee at the voice of thy cry; when he shall hear it, he will answer thee.

30:20    主雖然以艱難給你當餅，以困苦給你當水，你的教師卻不再隱藏，你眼必看見你的教師。
And though the Lord give you the bread of adversity, and the water of affliction, yet shall not thy teachers be removed into a corner any more, but thine eyes shall see thy teachers:

30:21    你或向左，或向右，你必聽見後面有聲音說，這是正路，要行在其間。
And thine ears shall hear a word behind thee, saying, This is the way, walk ye in it, when ye turn to the right hand, and when ye turn to the left.

30:22    你雕刻偶像所包的銀子，和鑄造偶像所鍍的金子，你要玷汙，要拋棄，好像汙穢之物，對偶像說，去吧。
Ye shall defile also the covering of thy graven images of silver, and the ornament of thy molten images of gold: thou shalt cast them away as a menstruous cloth; thou shalt say unto it, Get thee hence.

30:23    你將種子撒在地裡，主必降雨在其上。並使地所出的糧肥美豐盛。到那時你的牲畜，必在寬闊的草場吃草。
Then shall he give the rain of thy seed, that thou shalt sow the ground withal; and bread of the increase of the earth, and it shall be fat and plenteous: in that day shall thy cattle feed in large pastures.

30:24    耕地的牛和驢駒，必吃加鹽的料。這料是用木？？和杈子揚淨的。
The oxen likewise and the young asses that ear the ground shall eat clean provender, which hath been winnowed with the shovel and with the fan.

30:25    在大行殺戮的日子，高臺倒塌的時候，各高山岡陵，必有川流河湧。
And there shall be upon every high mountain, and upon every high hill, rivers and streams of waters in the day of the great slaughter, when the towers fall.

30:26    當耶和華纏裹他百姓的損處，醫治他民鞭傷的日子，月光必像日光，日光必加七倍，像七日的光一樣。
Moreover the light of the moon shall be as the light of the sun, and the light of the sun shall be sevenfold, as the light of seven days, in the day that the LORD bindeth up the breach of his people, and healeth the stroke of their wound.

30:27    看哪，耶和華的名從遠方來，怒氣燒起，密煙上騰。他的嘴脣滿有忿恨，他的舌頭像吞滅的火。
Behold, the name of the LORD cometh from far, burning with his anger, and the burden thereof is heavy: his lips are full of indignation, and his tongue as a devouring fire:

30:28    他的氣如漲溢的河水，直漲到頸項，要用毀滅的篩籮，篩淨列國。並且在眾民的口中，必有使人錯行的嚼環。
And his breath, as an overflowing stream, shall reach to the midst of the neck, to sift the nations with the sieve of vanity: and there shall be a bridle in the jaws of the people, causing them to err.

30:29    你們必唱歌，像守聖節的夜間一樣。並且心中喜樂，像人吹笛，上耶和華的山，到以色列的磐石那裡。
Ye shall have a song, as in the night when a holy solemnity is kept; and gladness of heart, as when one goeth with a pipe to come into the mountain of the LORD, to the mighty One of Israel.

30:30    耶和華必使人聽他威嚴的聲音，又顯他降罰的臂膀，和他怒中的忿恨，併吞滅的火焰，與霹雷，暴風，冰雹。
And the LORD shall cause his glorious voice to be heard, and shall shew the lighting down of his arm, with the indignation of his anger, and with the flame of a devouring fire, with scattering, and tempest, and hailstones.

30:31    亞述人必因耶和華的聲音驚惶。耶和華必用杖擊打他。
For through the voice of the LORD shall the Assyrian be beaten down, which smote with a rod.

30:32    耶和華必將命定的杖，加在他身上，每打一下，人必擊鼓彈琴。打仗的時候，耶和華必掄起手來，與他交戰。
And in every place where the grounded staff shall pass, which the LORD shall lay upon him, it shall be with tabrets and harps: and in battles of shaking will he fight with it.

30:33    原來陀斐特又深又寬，早已為王豫備好了，其中堆的是火，與許多木柴。耶和華的氣如一股硫磺火，使他著起來。
For Tophet is ordained of old; yea, for the king it is prepared; he hath made it deep and large: the pile thereof is fire and much wood; the breath of the LORD, like a stream of brimstone, doth kindle it.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


31:1    禍哉，那些下埃及求幫住的，是因仗賴馬匹，倚靠甚多的車輛，並倚靠強壯的馬兵，卻不仰望以色列的聖者，也不求問耶和華。
Woe to them that go down to Egypt for help; and stay on horses, and trust in chariots, because they are many; and in horsemen, because they are very strong; but they look not unto the Holy One of Israel, neither seek the LORD!

31:2    其實耶和華有智慧。他必降災禍，並不反悔自己的話，卻要興起攻擊那作惡之家，又攻擊那作孽幫助人的。
Yet he also is wise, and will bring evil, and will not call back his words: but will arise against the house of the evildoers, and against the help of them that work iniquity.

31:3    埃及人不過是人，並不是神。他們的馬不過是血肉，並不是靈。耶和華一伸手，那幫助人的必絆跌，那受幫助的也必跌倒，都一同滅亡。
Now the Egyptians are men, and not God; and their horses flesh, and not spirit. When the LORD shall stretch out his hand, both he that helpeth shall fall, and he that is holpen shall fall down, and they all shall fail together.

31:4    耶和華對我如此說，獅子和少壯獅子，獲食咆哮，就是喊許多牧人來攻擊他，他總不因他們的聲音驚惶，也不因他們的喧譁縮伏。如此萬軍之耶和華，也必降臨在錫安山岡上爭戰。
For thus hath the LORD spoken unto me, Like as the lion and the young lion roaring on his prey, when a multitude of shepherds is called forth against him, he will not be afraid of their voice, nor abase himself for the noise of them: so shall the LORD of hosts come down to fight for mount Zion, and for the hill thereof.

31:5    雀鳥怎樣扇翅（覆雛），萬軍之耶和華也要照樣保護耶路撒冷，他必保護拯救，要越門保守。
As birds flying, so will the LORD of hosts defend Jerusalem; defending also he will deliver it; and passing over he will preserve it.

31:6    以色列人哪，你們深深的悖逆耶和華，現今要歸向他。
Turn ye unto him from whom the children of Israel have deeply revolted.

31:7    到那日各人必將他金偶像，銀偶像，就是親手所造陷自己在罪中的，都拋棄了。
For in that day every man shall cast away his idols of silver, and his idols of gold, which your own hands have made unto you for a sin.

31:8    亞述人必倒在刀下，並非人的刀。有刀要將他吞滅，並非人的刀。他必逃避這刀，他的少年人，必成為服苦的。
Then shall the Assyrian fall with the sword, not of a mighty man; and the sword, not of a mean man, shall devour him: but he shall flee from the sword, and his young men shall be discomfited.

31:9    他的磐石，必因驚嚇挪去，他的首領，必因大旗驚惶。這是那有火在錫安，有爐在耶路撒冷的耶和華說的。
And he shall pass over to his strong hold for fear, and his princes shall be afraid of the ensign, saith the LORD, whose fire is in Zion, and his furnace in Jerusalem.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


32:1    看哪，必有一王憑公義行政。必有首領藉公平掌權。
Behold, a king shall reign in righteousness, and princes shall rule in judgment.

32:2    必有一人像避風所，和避暴雨的隱密處，又像河流在乾旱之地，像大磐石的影子在疲乏之地。
And a man shall be as an hiding place from the wind, and a covert from the tempest; as rivers of water in a dry place, as the shadow of a great rock in a weary land.

32:3    那能看的人，眼不再昏迷，能聽的人，耳必得聽聞。
And the eyes of them that see shall not be dim, and the ears of them that hear shall hearken.

32:4    冒失人的心，必明白知識，結吧人的舌，必說話通快。
The heart also of the rash shall understand knowledge, and the tongue of the stammerers shall be ready to speak plainly.

32:5    愚頑人不再稱為高明，吝嗇人不再稱為大方。
The vile person shall be no more called liberal, nor the churl said to be bountiful.

32:6    因為愚頑人，必說愚頑話，心裡想作罪孽，慣行褻瀆的事，說錯謬的話，攻擊耶和華，使飢餓的人，無食可吃，使口渴的人，無水可喝。
For the vile person will speak villany, and his heart will work iniquity, to practise hypocrisy, and to utter error against the LORD, to make empty the soul of the hungry, and he will cause the drink of the thirsty to fail.

32:7    吝嗇人所用的法子是惡的。他圖謀惡計，用謊言毀滅謙卑人。窮乏人講公理的時候，他也是這樣行。
The instruments also of the churl are evil: he deviseth wicked devices to destroy the poor with lying words, even when the needy speaketh right.

32:8    高明人卻謀高明事，在高明事上，也必永存。
But the liberal deviseth liberal things; and by liberal things shall he stand.

32:9    安逸的婦女阿，起來聽我的聲音。無慮的女子阿，側耳聽我的言語。
Rise up, ye women that are at ease; hear my voice, ye careless daughters; give ear unto my speech.

32:10    無慮的女子阿，再過一年多，必受騷擾。因為無葡萄可摘，無果子（或作禾稼）可收。
Many days and years shall ye be troubled, ye careless women: for the vintage shall fail, the gathering shall not come.

32:11    安逸的婦女阿，要戰兢。無慮的女子阿，要受騷擾。脫去衣服，赤著身體，腰束麻布。
Tremble, ye women that are at ease; be troubled, ye careless ones: strip you, and make you bare, and gird sackcloth upon your loins.

32:12    他們必為美好的田地，和多結果的葡萄樹，捶胸哀哭。
They shall lament for the teats, for the pleasant fields, for the fruitful vine.

32:13    荊棘蒺藜必長在我百姓的地上，又長在歡樂的城中，和一切快樂的房屋上。
Upon the land of my people shall come up thorns and briers; yea, upon all the houses of joy in the joyous city:

32:14    因為宮殿必被撇下。多民的城必被離棄。山岡望樓永為洞穴，作野驢所喜樂的，為羊群的草場。
Because the palaces shall be forsaken; the multitude of the city shall be left; the forts and towers shall be for dens for ever, a joy of wild asses, a pasture of flocks;

32:15    等到聖靈從上澆灌我們，曠野就變為肥田，肥田看如樹林。
Until the spirit be poured upon us from on high, and the wilderness be a fruitful field, and the fruitful field be counted for a forest.

32:16    那時，公平要居在曠野，公義要居在肥田。
Then judgment shall dwell in the wilderness, and righteousness remain in the fruitful field.

32:17    公義的果效，必是平安。公義的效驗，必是平穩，直到永遠。
And the work of righteousness shall be peace; and the effect of righteousness quietness and assurance for ever.

32:18    我的百姓，必住在平安的居所，安穩的住處，平靜的安歇所。
And my people shall dwell in a peaceable habitation, and in sure dwellings, and in quiet resting places;

32:19    但要降冰雹打倒樹林。城必全然拆平。
When it shall hail, coming down on the forest; and the city shall be low in a low place.

32:20    你們在各水邊撒種牧放牛驢的有福了。
Blessed are ye that sow beside all waters, that send forth thither the feet of the ox and the ass.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


33:1    禍哉，你這毀滅人的，自己倒不被毀滅。行事詭詐的，人倒不以詭詐待你。你毀滅吧休了，自己必被毀滅。你行完了詭詐，人必以詭詐待你。
Woe to thee that spoilest, and thou wast not spoiled; and dealest treacherously, and they dealt not treacherously with thee! when thou shalt cease to spoil, thou shalt be spoiled; and when thou shalt make an end to deal treacherously, they shall deal treacherously with thee.

33:2    耶和華阿，求你施恩於我們。我們等候你。求你每早晨作我們的膀臂。遭難的時候，為我們的拯救。
O LORD, be gracious unto us; we have waited for thee: be thou their arm every morning, our salvation also in the time of trouble.

33:3    喧囔的響聲一發，眾民奔逃。你一興起，列國四散。
At the noise of the tumult the people fled; at the lifting up of thyself the nations were scattered.

33:4    你們所擄的，必被斂盡，好像螞蚱吃（原文作斂）盡禾稼。人要蹦在其上，好像蝗蟲一樣。
And your spoil shall be gathered like the gathering of the caterpiller: as the running to and fro of locusts shall he run upon them.

33:5    耶和華被尊崇，因他居在高處。他以公平公義充滿錫安。
The LORD is exalted; for he dwelleth on high: he hath filled Zion with judgment and righteousness.

33:6    你一生一世必得安穩，有豐盛的救恩，並智慧，和知識。你以敬畏耶和華為至寶。
And wisdom and knowledge shall be the stability of thy times, and strength of salvation: the fear of the LORD is his treasure.

33:7    看哪，他們的豪傑在外頭哀號。求和的使臣，痛痛哭泣。
Behold, their valiant ones shall cry without: the ambassadors of peace shall weep bitterly.

33:8    大路荒涼，行人止息。敵人背約，藐視城邑，不顧人民。
The highways lie waste, the wayfaring man ceaseth: he hath broken the covenant, he hath despised the cities, he regardeth no man.

33:9    地上悲哀衰殘。黎巴嫩羞愧枯乾。沙崙像曠野。巴珊和迦密的樹林凋殘。
The earth mourneth and languisheth: Lebanon is ashamed and hewn down: Sharon is like a wilderness; and Bashan and Carmel shake off their fruits.

33:10    耶和華說，現在我要起來。我要興起。我要勃然而興。
Now will I rise, saith the LORD; now will I be exalted; now will I lift up myself.

33:11    你們要懷的是糠？？。要生的是碎秸。你們的氣就是吞滅自己的火。
Ye shall conceive chaff, ye shall bring forth stubble: your breath, as fire, shall devour you.

33:12    列邦必像已燒的石灰，已割的荊棘，在火中焚燒。
And the people shall be as the burnings of lime: as thorns cut up shall they be burned in the fire.

33:13    你們遠方的人，當聽我所行的，你們近處的人，當承認我的大能。
Hear, ye that are far off, what I have done; and, ye that are near, acknowledge my might.

33:14    錫安中的罪人都懼怕。不敬虔的人被戰兢抓住。我們中間誰能與吞滅的火同住。我們中間誰能與永火同住呢。
The sinners in Zion are afraid; fearfulness hath surprised the hypocrites. Who among us shall dwell with the devouring fire? who among us shall dwell with everlasting burnings?

33:15    行事公義，說話正直，憎惡欺壓的財利，擺手不受賄胳，塞耳不聽流血的話，閉眼不看邪惡事的，
He that walketh righteously, and speaketh uprightly; he that despiseth the gain of oppressions, that shaketh his hands from holding of bribes, that stoppeth his ears from hearing of blood, and shutteth his eyes from seeing evil;

33:16    他必居高處。他的保障是磐石的堅壘。他的糧必不缺乏，（原文作賜給）他的水必不斷絕。
He shall dwell on high: his place of defence shall be the munitions of rocks: bread shall be given him; his waters shall be sure.

33:17    你的眼必見王的榮美，必見遼闊之地。
Thine eyes shall see the king in his beauty: they shall behold the land that is very far off.

33:18    你的心必思想那驚嚇的事，自問說，記數目的在那裡呢。平貢銀的在那裡呢。數戍樓的在那裡呢。
Thine heart shall meditate terror. Where is the scribe? where is the receiver? where is he that counted the towers?

33:19    你必不見那強暴的民，就是說話深奧，你不能明白，言語呢喃，你不能懂得的。
Thou shalt not see a fierce people, a people of a deeper speech than thou canst perceive; of a stammering tongue, that thou canst not understand.

33:20    你要看錫安我們守聖節的城。你的眼必見耶路撒冷為安靜的居所，為不挪移的帳幕，橛子永不拔出，繩索一根也不折斷。
Look upon Zion, the city of our solemnities: thine eyes shall see Jerusalem a quiet habitation, a tabernacle that shall not be taken down; not one of the stakes thereof shall ever be removed, neither shall any of the cords thereof be broken.

33:21    在那裡耶和華必顯威嚴與我們同在，當作江河寬闊之地。其中必沒有蕩槳搖櫓的船來往，也沒有威武的船經過。
But there the glorious LORD will be unto us a place of broad rivers and streams; wherein shall go no galley with oars, neither shall gallant ship pass thereby.

33:22    因為耶和華是審判我們的，耶和華是給我們設律法的，耶和華是我們的王。他必拯救我們。
For the LORD is our judge, the LORD is our lawgiver, the LORD is our king; he will save us.

33:23    你的繩索鬆開不能栽穩桅杆，也不能揚起篷來，那時許多擄來的物被分了。瘸腿的把掠物奪去了。
Thy tacklings are loosed; they could not well strengthen their mast, they could not spread the sail: then is the prey of a great spoil divided; the lame take the prey.

33:24    城內居民必不說，我病了。其中居住的百姓，罪孽都赦免了。
And the inhabitant shall not say, I am sick: the people that dwell therein shall be forgiven their iniquity.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


34:1    列國阿，要近前來聽。眾民哪，要側耳而聽。地和其上所充滿的，世界和其中一切所出的，都應當聽。
Come near, ye nations, to hear; and hearken, ye people: let the earth hear, and all that is therein; the world, and all things that come forth of it.

34:2    因為耶和華向萬國發忿怒，向他們的全軍發烈怒，將他們滅盡，交出他們受殺戮。
For the indignation of the LORD is upon all nations, and his fury upon all their armies: he hath utterly destroyed them, he hath delivered them to the slaughter.

34:3    被殺的必然拋棄，屍首臭氣上騰。諸山被他們的血融化。
Their slain also shall be cast out, and their stink shall come up out of their carcases, and the mountains shall be melted with their blood.

34:4    天上的永珍都要消沒，天被捲起，好像書卷。其上的永珍要殘敗，像葡萄樹的葉子殘敗，又像無花果樹的葉子殘敗一樣
And all the host of heaven shall be dissolved, and the heavens shall be rolled together as a scroll: and all their host shall fall down, as the leaf falleth off from the vine, and as a falling fig from the fig tree.

34:5    因為我的刀在天上已經喝足。這刀必臨到以東，和我所咒詛的民，要施行審判。
For my sword shall be bathed in heaven: behold, it shall come down upon Idumea, and upon the people of my curse, to judgment.

34:6    耶和華的刀滿了血，用脂油和羊羔公山羊的血，並公綿羊腰子的脂油滋潤的。因為耶和華在波斯拉有獻祭的事，在以東地大行殺戮。
The sword of the LORD is filled with blood, it is made fat with fatness, and with the blood of lambs and goats, with the fat of the kidneys of rams: for the LORD hath a sacrifice in Bozrah, and a great slaughter in the land of Idumea.

34:7    野牛，牛犢，和公牛，要一同下來。他們的地喝醉了血，他們的塵土因脂油肥潤。
And the unicorns shall come down with them, and the bullocks with the bulls; and their land shall be soaked with blood, and their dust made fat with fatness.

34:8    因耶和華有報仇之日，為錫安的爭辯，有報應之年。
For it is the day of the LORD's vengeance, and the year of recompences for the controversy of Zion.

34:9    以東的河水要變為石油，塵埃要變為硫磺，地土成為燒著的石油。
And the streams thereof shall be turned into pitch, and the dust thereof into brimstone, and the land thereof shall become burning pitch.

34:10    晝夜總不熄滅，煙氣永遠上騰，必世世代代成為荒廢，永永遠遠無人經過。
It shall not be quenched night nor day; the smoke thereof shall go up for ever: from generation to generation it shall lie waste; none shall pass through it for ever and ever.

34:11    鵜鶘，箭豬，卻要得為業。貓頭鷹，烏鴉，要住在其間。耶和華必將空虛的準繩，混沌的錢鉈，拉在其上。
But the cormorant and the bittern shall possess it; the owl also and the raven shall dwell in it: and he shall stretch out upon it the line of confusion, and the stones of emptiness.

34:12    以東人要召貴胄來治國，那裡卻無一個。首領也都歸於無有。
They shall call the nobles thereof to the kingdom, but none shall be there, and all her princes shall be nothing.

34:13    以東的宮殿要長荊棘，保障要長蒺藜和刺草。要作野狗的住處，鴕鳥的居所。
And thorns shall come up in her palaces, nettles and brambles in the fortresses thereof: and it shall be an habitation of dragons, and a court for owls.

34:14    曠野的走獸，要和豺狼相遇。野山羊，要與伴偶對叫。夜間的怪物，必在那裡棲身，自找安歇之處。
The wild beasts of the desert shall also meet with the wild beasts of the island, and the satyr shall cry to his fellow; the screech owl also shall rest there, and find for herself a place of rest.

34:15    箭蛇要在那裡作窩，下蛋，？？蛋，生子，聚子在其影下。鷂鷹，各與伴偶聚集在那裡。
There shall the great owl make her nest, and lay, and hatch, and gather under her shadow: there shall the vultures also be gathered, every one with her mate.

34:16    你們要查考宣讀耶和華的書。這都無一缺少，無一沒有伴偶，因為我的口已經吩咐，他的靈將他們聚集。
Seek ye out of the book of the LORD, and read: no one of these shall fail, none shall want her mate: for my mouth it hath commanded, and his spirit it hath gathered them.

34:17    他也為他們奉拈鬮，又親手用準繩給他們分地，他們必永得為業，世世代代住在期間。
And he hath cast the lot for them, and his hand hath divided it unto them by line: they shall possess it for ever, from generation to generation shall they dwell therein.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


35:1    曠野和乾旱之地，必然歡喜。沙漠也必快樂。又像玫瑰開花。
The wilderness and the solitary place shall be glad for them; and the desert shall rejoice, and blossom as the rose.

35:2    必開花繁盛，樂上加樂，而且歡呼。黎巴嫩的榮耀，並迦密與沙崙的華美，必賜給他。人必看見耶和華的榮耀，我們神的華美。
It shall blossom abundantly, and rejoice even with joy and singing: the glory of Lebanon shall be given unto it, the excellency of Carmel and Sharon, they shall see the glory of the LORD, and the excellency of our God.

35:3    你們要使軟弱的手堅壯，無力的膝穩固。
Strengthen ye the weak hands, and confirm the feeble knees.

35:4    對膽怯的人說，你們要剛強，不要懼怕。看哪，你們的神必來報仇，必來施行極大的報應，他必來拯救你們。
Say to them that are of a fearful heart, Be strong, fear not: behold, your God will come with vengeance, even God with a recompence; he will come and save you.

35:5    那時瞎子的眼必睜開，聾子的耳必開通。
Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf shall be unstopped.

35:6    那時瘸子必跳躍像鹿，啞吧的舌頭必能歌唱。在曠野必有水發出，在沙漠必有河湧流。
Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb sing: for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the desert.

35:7    發光的沙，（或作蜃樓）要變為水池，乾渴之地，要變為泉源。在野狗躺臥之處，必有青草，蘆葦，和蒲草。
And the parched ground shall become a pool, and the thirsty land springs of water: in the habitation of dragons, where each lay, shall be grass with reeds and rushes.

35:8    在那裡必有一條大道，稱為聖路。汙穢人不得經過，必專為贖民行走，行路的人雖愚昧，也不至失迷。
And an highway shall be there, and a way, and it shall be called The way of holiness; the unclean shall not pass over it; but it shall be for those: the wayfaring men, though fools, shall not err therein.

35:9    在那裡必沒有獅子，猛獸也不登這路，在那裡都遇不見。只有贖民在那裡行走。
No lion shall be there, nor any ravenous beast shall go up thereon, it shall not be found there; but the redeemed shall walk there:

35:10    並且耶和華救贖的民必歸回，歌唱來到錫安。永樂必歸到他們的頭上，他們必得著歡喜快樂，憂愁嘆息盡都逃避。
And the ransomed of the LORD shall return, and come to Zion with songs and everlasting joy upon their heads: they shall obtain joy and gladness, and sorrow and sighing shall flee away.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


36:1    希西家王十四年，亞述王西拿基立，上來攻擊猶大的一切堅固城，將城攻取。
Now it came to pass in the fourteenth year of king Hezekiah, that Sennacherib king of Assyria came up against all the defenced cities of Judah, and took them.

36:2    亞述王從拉吉差遣拉伯沙基，率領大軍，往耶路撒冷到希西家王那裡去。他就站在上池的水溝旁，在漂布地的大路上。
And the king of Assyria sent Rabshakeh from Lachish to Jerusalem unto king Hezekiah with a great army. And he stood by the conduit of the upper pool in the highway of the fuller's field.

36:3    於是希勒家的兒子家宰以利亞敬，並書記舍伯那，和亞薩的兒子史官約亞，出來見拉伯沙基。
Then came forth unto him Eliakim, Hilkiah's son, which was over the house, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, Asaph's son, the recorder.

36:4    拉伯沙基對他們說，你們去告訴希西家說，亞述大王如此說，你所倚靠的有什麼可仗賴的呢。
And Rabshakeh said unto them, Say ye now to Hezekiah, Thus saith the great king, the king of Assyria, What confidence is this wherein thou trustest?

36:5    你說，有打仗的計謀和能力。我看不過是虛話，你到底倚靠誰，才背叛我呢。
I say, sayest thou, (but they are but vain words) I have counsel and strength for war: now on whom dost thou trust, that thou rebellest against me?

36:6    看哪，你所倚靠的埃及，是那壓傷的葦仗，人若靠這仗，就必刺透他的手。埃及王法老向一切倚靠他的人，也是這樣。
Lo, thou trustest in the staff of this broken reed, on Egypt; whereon if a man lean, it will go into his hand, and pierce it: so is Pharaoh king of Egypt to all that trust in him.

36:7    你若對我說，我們倚靠耶和華我們的神。希西家豈不是將神的邱壇，和祭壇廢去，且對猶大和耶路撒冷的人說，你們當在這壇前敬拜嗎。
But if thou say to me, We trust in the LORD our God: is it not he, whose high places and whose altars Hezekiah hath taken away, and said to Judah and to Jerusalem, Ye shall worship before this altar?

36:8    現在你把當頭給我主亞述王，我給你二千匹馬，看你這一面騎馬的人彀不彀。
Now therefore give pledges, I pray thee, to my master the king of Assyria, and I will give thee two thousand horses, if thou be able on thy part to set riders upon them.

36:9    若不然，怎能打敗我主臣僕中最小的軍長呢。你竟倚靠埃及的戰車馬兵嗎。
How then wilt thou turn away the face of one captain of the least of my master's servants, and put thy trust on Egypt for chariots and for horsemen?

36:10    現在我上來攻擊毀滅這地，豈沒有耶和華的意思嗎。耶和華吩咐我說，你上去攻擊毀滅這地吧。
And am I now come up without the LORD against this land to destroy it? the LORD said unto me, Go up against this land, and destroy it.

36:11    以利亞敬，舍伯那，約亞，對拉伯沙基說，求你用亞蘭言語和僕人說話，因為我們懂得，不要用猶大言語和我們說話達到城上百姓的耳中。
Then said Eliakim and Shebna and Joah unto Rabshakeh, Speak, I pray thee, unto thy servants in the Syrian language; for we understand it: and speak not to us in the Jews' language, in the ears of the people that are on the wall.

36:12    拉伯沙基說，我主差遣我來，豈是單對你和你的主說這些話嗎，不也是對這些坐在城上，要與你們一同吃自己糞喝自己尿的人說嗎。
But Rabshakeh said, Hath my master sent me to thy master and to thee to speak these words? hath he not sent me to the men that sit upon the wall, that they may eat their own dung, and drink their own piss with you?

36:13    於是拉伯沙基站著，用猶大言語，大聲喊著說，你們當聽亞述大王的話。
Then Rabshakeh stood, and cried with a loud voice in the Jews' language, and said, Hear ye the words of the great king, the king of Assyria.

36:14    王如此說，你們不要被希西家欺哄了，因他不能拯救你們。
Thus saith the king, Let not Hezekiah deceive you: for he shall not be able to deliver you.

36:15    也不要聽希西家使你們倚靠耶和華說，耶和華必要拯救我們，這城必不交在亞述王的手中。
Neither let Hezekiah make you trust in the LORD, saying, The LORD will surely deliver us: this city shall not be delivered into the hand of the king of Assyria.

36:16    不要聽希西家的話，因亞述王如此說，你們要與我和好，出來投降我，各人就可以吃自己葡萄樹和無花果樹的果子，喝自己井裡的水。
Hearken not to Hezekiah: for thus saith the king of Assyria, Make an agreement with me by a present, and come out to me: and eat ye every one of his vine, and every one of his fig tree, and drink ye every one the waters of his own cistern;

36:17    等我來領你們到一個地方，與你們本地一樣，就是有五穀和新酒之地，有糧食和葡萄園之地。
Until I come and take you away to a land like your own land, a land of corn and wine, a land of bread and vineyards.

36:18    你們要謹防，恐怕希西家勸導你們說，耶和華必要拯救我們。列國的神有那一個救他本國脫離亞述王的手呢。
Beware lest Hezekiah persuade you, saying, The LORD will deliver us. Hath any of the gods of the nations delivered his land out of the hand of the king of Assyria?

36:19    哈馬和亞珥拔的神在那裡呢，西法瓦音的神在那裡呢，他們曾救撒瑪利亞脫離我的手嗎。
Where are the gods of Hamath and Arphad? where are the gods of Sepharvaim? and have they delivered Samaria out of my hand?

36:20    這些國的神，有誰曾救自己的國脫離我的手呢，難到耶和華能救耶路撒冷脫離我的手嗎。
Who are they among all the gods of these lands, that have delivered their land out of my hand, that the LORD should deliver Jerusalem out of my hand?

36:21    百姓靜默不言，並不回答一句，因為王曾吩咐說，不要回答他。
But they held their peace, and answered him not a word: for the king's commandment was, saying, Answer him not.

36:22    當下希勒家的兒子家宰以利亞敬，和書記舍伯那，並亞薩的兒子史官約亞，都撕裂衣服，來到希西家那裡，將拉伯沙基的話告訴了他。
Then came Eliakim, the son of Hilkiah, that was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and Joah, the son of Asaph, the recorder, to Hezekiah with their clothes rent, and told him the words of Rabshakeh.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 37 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


37:1    希西家王聽見，就撕裂衣服，披上麻布，進了耶和華的殿。
And it came to pass, when king Hezekiah heard it, that he rent his clothes, and covered himself with sackcloth, and went into the house of the LORD.

37:2    使家宰以利亞敬，和書記舍伯那，並祭司中的長老，都披上麻布，去見亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞。
And he sent Eliakim, who was over the household, and Shebna the scribe, and the elders of the priests covered with sackcloth, unto Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz.

37:3    對他說，希西家如此說，今日是急難，責罰，凌辱的日子，就如婦人將要生產嬰孩，卻沒有力量生產。
And they said unto him, Thus saith Hezekiah, This day is a day of trouble, and of rebuke, and of blasphemy: for the children are come to the birth, and there is not strength to bring forth.

37:4    或者耶和華你的神，聽見拉伯沙基的話，就是他主人亞述王打發他來辱罵永生神的話。耶和華你的神，聽見這話就要發斥責，故此求你為餘剩的民，揚聲禱告。
It may be the LORD thy God will hear the words of Rabshakeh, whom the king of Assyria his master hath sent to reproach the living God, and will reprove the words which the LORD thy God hath heard: wherefore lift up thy prayer for the remnant that is left.

37:5    希西家王的臣僕，就去見以賽亞，
So the servants of king Hezekiah came to Isaiah.

37:6    以賽亞對他們說，要這樣對你們的主人說，耶和華如此說，你聽見亞述王的僕人褻瀆我的話，不要懼怕。
And Isaiah said unto them, Thus shall ye say unto your master, Thus saith the LORD, Be not afraid of the words that thou hast heard, wherewith the servants of the king of Assyria have blasphemed me.

37:7    我必驚動（原文作使靈進入）他的心，他要聽見風聲就歸回本地，我必使他在那裡倒在刀下。
Behold, I will send a blast upon him, and he shall hear a rumour, and return to his own land; and I will cause him to fall by the sword in his own land.

37:8    拉伯沙基回去，正遇見亞述王攻打立拿。原來他早聽見亞述王拔營離開拉吉。
So Rabshakeh returned, and found the king of Assyria warring against Libnah: for he had heard that he was departed from Lachish.

37:9    亞述王聽見人論古實王特哈加說，他出來與你爭戰。亞述王一聽見，就打發使者去見希西家，吩咐他們說。
And he heard say concerning Tirhakah king of Ethiopia, He is come forth to make war with thee. And when he heard it, he sent messengers to Hezekiah, saying,

37:10    你們對猶大王希西家如此說，不要聽你所倚靠的神欺哄你，說，耶路撒冷必不交在亞述王的手中。
Thus shall ye speak to Hezekiah king of Judah, saying, Let not thy God, in whom thou trustest, deceive thee, saying, Jerusalem shall not be given into the hand of the king of Assyria.

37:11    你總聽說亞述諸王向列國所行的，乃是盡行滅絕，難道你還能得救嗎。
Behold, thou hast heard what the kings of Assyria have done to all lands by destroying them utterly; and shalt thou be delivered?

37:12    我列祖所毀滅的，就是歌散，哈蘭，利色，和屬提拉撒的伊甸人。這些國的神，何曾拯救這些國呢。
Have the gods of the nations delivered them which my fathers have destroyed, as Gozan, and Haran, and Rezeph, and the children of Eden which were in Telassar?

37:13    哈馬的王，亞珥拔的王，西法瓦音城的王，希拿和以瓦的王，都在那裡呢。
Where is the king of Hamath, and the king of Arphad, and the king of the city of Sepharvaim, Hena, and Ivah?

37:14    希西家從使者手裡接過書信來，看完了，就上耶和華的殿，將書信在耶和華面前晒開。
And Hezekiah received the letter from the hand of the messengers, and read it: and Hezekiah went up unto the house of the LORD, and spread it before the LORD.

37:15    希西家向耶和華禱告說，
And Hezekiah prayed unto the LORD, saying,

37:16    坐在二基路伯上萬軍之耶和華以色列的神阿，你，惟有你，是天下萬國的神。你曾創造天地。
O LORD of hosts, God of Israel, that dwellest between the cherubims, thou art the God, even thou alone, of all the kingdoms of the earth: thou hast made heaven and earth.

37:17    耶和華阿，求你側耳而聽。耶和華阿，求你睜眼而看。要聽西拿基立的一切話，他是打發使者來辱罵永生的神的。
Incline thine ear, O LORD, and hear; open thine eyes, O LORD, and see: and hear all the words of Sennacherib, which hath sent to reproach the living God.

37:18    耶和華阿，亞述諸王果然使列國，和列國之地變為荒涼。
Of a truth, LORD, the kings of Assyria have laid waste all the nations, and their countries,

37:19    將列國的神像都扔在火裡，因為他本不是神，乃是人手所造的，是木頭，石頭的，所以滅絕他。
And have cast their gods into the fire: for they were no gods, but the work of men's hands, wood and stone: therefore they have destroyed them.

37:20    耶和華我們的神阿，現在求你救我們脫離亞述王的手，使天下萬國都知道惟有你是耶和華。
Now therefore, O LORD our God, save us from his hand, that all the kingdoms of the earth may know that thou art the LORD, even thou only.

37:21    亞摩斯的兒子以賽亞，就打發人去見希西家說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，你既然求我攻擊亞述王西拿基立，
Then Isaiah the son of Amoz sent unto Hezekiah, saying, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Whereas thou hast prayed to me against Sennacherib king of Assyria:

37:22    所以耶和華論他這樣說，錫安的處女藐視你，嗤笑你，耶路撒冷的女子向你搖頭。
This is the word which the LORD hath spoken concerning him; The virgin, the daughter of Zion, hath despised thee, and laughed thee to scorn; the daughter of Jerusalem hath shaken her head at thee.

37:23    你辱罵誰，褻瀆誰，揚起聲來，高舉眼目攻擊誰呢，乃是攻擊以色列的聖者。
Whom hast thou reproached and blasphemed? and against whom hast thou exalted thy voice, and lifted up thine eyes on high? even against the Holy One of Israel.

37:24    你藉你的臣僕辱罵主，說，我率領許多戰車上山頂，到黎巴嫩極深之處，我要砍伐其中高大的香柏樹，和佳美的松樹，我必上極高之處，進入肥田的樹林。
By thy servants hast thou reproached the Lord, and hast said, By the multitude of my chariots am I come up to the height of the mountains, to the sides of Lebanon; and I will cut down the tall cedars thereof, and the choice fir trees thereof: and I will enter into the height of his border, and the forest of his Carmel.

37:25    我已經挖井喝水，我必用腳掌踏乾埃及的一切河。
I have digged, and drunk water; and with the sole of my feet have I dried up all the rivers of the besieged places.

37:26    耶和華說，你豈沒有聽見我早先所作的古時所立的嗎，現在藉你使堅固城荒廢，變為亂堆。
Hast thou not heard long ago, how I have done it; and of ancient times, that I have formed it? now have I brought it to pass, that thou shouldest be to lay waste defenced cities into ruinous heaps.

37:27    所以其中的居民力量甚小，驚惶羞愧。他們像野草，像青菜，如房頂上的草，又如田間未長成的禾稼。
Therefore their inhabitants were of small power, they were dismayed and confounded: they were as the grass of the field, and as the green herb, as the grass on the housetops, and as corn blasted before it be grown up.

37:28    你坐下，你出去，你進來，你向我發烈怒，我都知道。
But I know thy abode, and thy going out, and thy coming in, and thy rage against me.

37:29    因你向我發烈怒，又因你狂傲的話達到我耳中，我就要用鉤子鉤上你的鼻子，把嚼環放在你口裡，使你從原路轉回去。
Because thy rage against me, and thy tumult, is come up into mine ears, therefore will I put my hook in thy nose, and my bridle in thy lips, and I will turn thee back by the way by which thou camest.

37:30    以色列人哪，我賜你們一個證據，你們今年要吃自生的，明年也要吃自長的，至於後年，你們要耕種收割，栽植葡萄園，吃其中的果子。
And this shall be a sign unto thee, Ye shall eat this year such as groweth of itself; and the second year that which springeth of the same: and in the third year sow ye, and reap, and plant vineyards, and eat the fruit thereof.

37:31    猶大家所逃脫剩餘的，仍要往下札根，向上結果。
And the remnant that is escaped of the house of Judah shall again take root downward, and bear fruit upward:

37:32    必有餘剩的民，從耶路撒冷而出，必有逃脫的人，從錫安而來。萬軍之耶和華的熱心必成就這事。
For out of Jerusalem shall go forth a remnant, and they that escape out of mount Zion: the zeal of the LORD of hosts shall do this.

37:33    所以耶和華論亞述王如此說，他必不得來到這城，也不在這裡射箭，不得拿盾牌到城前，也不築壘攻城。
Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the king of Assyria, He shall not come into this city, nor shoot an arrow there, nor come before it with shields, nor cast a bank against it.

37:34    他從那條路來，必從那條路回去，必不得來到這城。這是耶和華說的。
By the way that he came, by the same shall he return, and shall not come into this city, saith the LORD.

37:35    因我為自己的緣故，又為我僕人大衛的緣故，必保護拯救這城。
For I will defend this city to save it for mine own sake, and for my servant David's sake.

37:36    耶和華的使者出去，在亞述營中殺了十八萬五千人。清早有人起來一看，都是死屍了。
Then the angel of the LORD went forth, and smote in the camp of the Assyrians a hundred and fourscore and five thousand: and when they arose early in the morning, behold, they were all dead corpses.

37:37    亞述王西拿基立，就拔營回去，住在尼尼微。
So Sennacherib king of Assyria departed, and went and returned, and dwelt at Nineveh.

37:38    一日在他的神，尼斯洛廟裡叩拜，他兒子亞得米勒，和沙利色，用刀殺了他，就逃到亞拉臘地。他兒子以撒哈噸接續他作王。
And it came to pass, as he was worshipping in the house of Nisroch his god, that Adrammelech and Sharezer his sons smote him with the sword; and they escaped into the land of Armenia: and Esarhaddon his son reigned in his stead.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 38 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


38:1    那時希西家病得要死，亞摩斯的兒子先知以賽亞去見他，對他說，耶和華如此說，你當留遺命與你的家，因為你必死不能活了。
In those days was Hezekiah sick unto death. And Isaiah the prophet the son of Amoz came unto him, and said unto him, Thus saith the LORD, Set thine house in order: for thou shalt die, and not live.

38:2    希西家就轉臉朝牆，禱告耶和華說，
Then Hezekiah turned his face toward the wall, and prayed unto the LORD,

38:3    耶和華阿，求你記念我在你面前怎樣存完全的心，按誠實行事，又作你眼中所看為善的。希西家就痛哭了。
And said, Remember now, O LORD, I beseech thee, how I have walked before thee in truth and with a perfect heart, and have done that which is good in thy sight. And Hezekiah wept sore.

38:4    耶和華的話臨到以賽亞說，
Then came the word of the LORD to Isaiah, saying,

38:5    你去告訴希西家說，耶和華你祖大衛的神如此說，我聽見了你的禱告，看見了你的眼淚，我必加增你十五年的壽數。
Go, and say to Hezekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God of David thy father, I have heard thy prayer, I have seen thy tears: behold, I will add unto thy days fifteen years.

38:6    並且我要救你和這城脫離亞述王的手，也要保護這城。
And I will deliver thee and this city out of the hand of the king of Assyria: and I will defend this city.

38:7    我耶和華必成就我所說的，我先給你一個兆頭。
And this shall be a sign unto thee from the LORD, that the LORD will do this thing that he hath spoken;

38:8    就是叫亞哈斯的日晷，向前進的日影往後退十度。於是前進的日影，果然在日晷上往後退了十度。
Behold, I will bring again the shadow of the degrees, which is gone down in the sun dial of Ahaz, ten degrees backward. So the sun returned ten degrees, by which degrees it was gone down.

38:9    猶大王希西家患病，已經痊癒，就作詩說，
The writing of Hezekiah king of Judah, when he had been sick, and was recovered of his sickness:

38:10    我說，正在我中年（或作晌午）之日，必進入陰間的門。我餘剩的年歲不得享受。
I said in the cutting off of my days, I shall go to the gates of the grave: I am deprived of the residue of my years.

38:11    我說，我必不得見耶和華，就是在活人之地不見耶和華。我與世上的居民不再見面。
I said, I shall not see the LORD, even the LORD, in the land of the living: I shall behold man no more with the inhabitants of the world.

38:12    我的住處被遷去離開我，好像牧人的帳棚一樣。我將性命捲起，像織布的卷布一樣。耶和華必將我從機頭剪斷，從早到晚，他要使我完結。
Mine age is departed, and is removed from me as a shepherd's tent: I have cut off like a weaver my life: he will cut me off with pining sickness: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.

38:13    我使自己安靜直到天亮。他像獅子折斷我一切的骨頭，從早到晚，他要使我完結。
I reckoned till morning, that, as a lion, so will he break all my bones: from day even to night wilt thou make an end of me.

38:14    我像燕子呢喃。像白鶴嗚叫。又像鴿子哀嗚。我因仰觀，眼睛睏倦。耶和華阿，我受欺壓。求你為我作保。
Like a crane or a swallow, so did I chatter: I did mourn as a dove: mine eyes fail with looking upward: O LORD, I am oppressed; undertake for me.

38:15    我可說什麼呢，他應許我的，也給我成就了。我因心裡的苦楚，在一生的年日，必悄悄而行。
What shall I say? he hath both spoken unto me, and himself hath done it: I shall go softly all my years in the bitterness of my soul.

38:16    主阿，人得存活，乃在乎此。我靈存活，也全在此。所以求你使我痊癒，仍然存活。
O LORD, by these things men live, and in all these things is the life of my spirit: so wilt thou recover me, and make me to live.

38:17    看哪，我受大苦，本為使我得平安，你因愛我的靈魂，（或作生命）便救我脫離敗壞的坑。因為你將我一切的罪，扔在你的背後。
Behold, for peace I had great bitterness: but thou hast in love to my soul delivered it from the pit of corruption: for thou hast cast all my sins behind thy back.

38:18    原來陰間不能稱謝你，死亡不能頌揚你，下坑的人不能盼望你的誠實。
For the grave cannot praise thee, death can not celebrate thee: they that go down into the pit cannot hope for thy truth.

38:19    只有活人，活人必稱謝你，像我今日稱謝你一樣。為父的，必使兒女知道你的誠實。
The living, the living, he shall praise thee, as I do this day: the father to the children shall make known thy truth.

38:20    耶和華肯救我，所以我們要一生一世，在耶和華殿中用絲絃的樂器，唱我的詩歌。
The LORD was ready to save me: therefore we will sing my songs to the stringed instruments all the days of our life in the house of the LORD.

38:21    以賽亞說，當取一塊無花果餅來，貼在瘡上，王必痊癒。
For Isaiah had said, Let them take a lump of figs, and lay it for a plaister upon the boil, and he shall recover.

38:22    希西家問說，我能上耶和華的殿，有什麼兆頭呢。
Hezekiah also had said, What is the sign that I shall go up to the house of the LORD?




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 39 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


39:1    那時巴比倫王巴拉但的兒子米羅達巴拉但，聽見希西家病而痊癒，就送書信和禮物給他。
At that time Merodachbaladan, the son of Baladan, king of Babylon, sent letters and a present to Hezekiah: for he had heard that he had been sick, and was recovered.

39:2    希西家喜歡見使者，就把自己寶庫的金子，銀子，香料，貴重的膏油，和他武庫的一切軍器，並所有的財寶都給他們看。他家中和全國之內，希西家沒有一樣不給他們看的。
And Hezekiah was glad of them, and shewed them the house of his precious things, the silver, and the gold, and the spices, and the precious ointment, and all the house of his armour, and all that was found in his treasures: there was nothing in his house, nor in all his dominion, that Hezekiah shewed them not.

39:3    於是先知以賽亞來見希西家王，問他說，這些人說什麼，他們從那裡來見你。希西家說他們從遠方的巴比倫來見我。
Then came Isaiah the prophet unto king Hezekiah, and said unto him, What said these men? and from whence came they unto thee? And Hezekiah said, They are come from a far country unto me, even from Babylon.

39:4    以賽亞說，他們在你家裡看見了什麼。希西家說，凡我家中所有的，他們都看見了，我財寶中沒有一樣不給他們看的。
Then said he, What have they seen in thine house? And Hezekiah answered, All that is in mine house have they seen: there is nothing among my treasures that I have not shewed them.

39:5    以賽亞對希西家說，你要聽萬軍之耶和華的話。
Then said Isaiah to Hezekiah, Hear the word of the LORD of hosts:

39:6    日子必到，凡你家裡所有的，並你列祖積蓄到如今的，都要被擄到巴比倫去，不留下一樣，這是耶和華說的。
Behold, the days come, that all that is in thine house, and that which thy fathers have laid up in store until this day, shall be carried to Babylon: nothing shall be left, saith the LORD.

39:7    並且從你本身所生的眾子，其中必有被擄去，在巴比倫王宮裡當太監的。
And of thy sons that shall issue from thee, which thou shalt beget, shall they take away; and they shall be eunuchs in the palace of the king of Babylon.

39:8    希西家對以賽亞說，你所說耶和華的話甚好，因為在我的年日中，必有太平和穩固的景況。
Then said Hezekiah to Isaiah, Good is the word of the LORD which thou hast spoken. He said moreover, For there shall be peace and truth in my days.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 40 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


40:1    你們的神說，你們要安慰，安慰我的百姓。
Comfort ye, comfort ye my people, saith your God.

40:2    要對耶路撒冷說安慰的話，又向他宣告說，他爭戰的日子已滿了，他的罪孽赦免了，他為自己的一切罪，從耶和華手中加倍受罰。
Speak ye comfortably to Jerusalem, and cry unto her, that her warfare is accomplished, that her iniquity is pardoned: for she hath received of the LORD's hand double for all her sins.

40:3    有人聲喊著說，在曠野豫備耶和華的路，（或作在曠野有人聲喊著說，當豫備耶和華的路），在沙漠地修平我們神的道。
The voice of him that crieth in the wilderness, Prepare ye the way of the LORD, make straight in the desert a highway for our God.

40:4    一切山窪都要填滿，大小山岡都要削平，高高低低的要改為平坦，崎崎嶇嶇的必成為平原。
Every valley shall be exalted, and every mountain and hill shall be made low: and the crooked shall be made straight, and the rough places plain:

40:5    耶和華的榮耀必然顯現，凡有血氣的，必一同看見，因為這是耶和華親口說的。
And the glory of the LORD shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it.

40:6    有人聲說，你喊叫吧。有一個說，我喊叫什麼呢。說，凡有血氣的，盡都如草，他的美容，都像野地的花。
The voice said, Cry. And he said, What shall I cry? All flesh is grass, and all the goodliness thereof is as the flower of the field:

40:7    草必枯乾，花必凋殘，因為耶和華的氣吹在其上。百姓誠然是草。
The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: because the spirit of the LORD bloweth upon it: surely the people is grass.

40:8    草必枯乾，花必凋殘，唯有我們神的話，必永遠立定。
The grass withereth, the flower fadeth: but the word of our God shall stand for ever.

40:9    報好資訊給錫安的阿，你要登
O Zion, that bringest good tidings, get thee up into the high mountain; O Jerusalem, that bringest good tidings, lift up thy voice with strength; lift it up, be not afraid; say unto the cities of Judah, Behold your God!

40:10    主耶和華必像大能者臨到，他的膀臂必為他掌權。他的賞賜在他那裡，他的報應在他面前。
Behold, the Lord GOD will come with strong hand, and his arm shall rule for him: behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him.

40:11    他必像牧人牧養自己的羊群，用膀臂聚集羊羔抱在懷中，慢慢引導那乳養小羊的。
He shall feed his flock like a shepherd: he shall gather the lambs with his arm, and carry them in his bosom, and shall gently lead those that are with young.

40:12    誰曾用手心量諸水，用手虎口量蒼天，用升斗盛大地的塵土，用秤稱山嶺，用天平平崗陵呢。
Who hath measured the waters in the hollow of his hand, and meted out heaven with the span, and comprehended the dust of the earth in a measure, and weighed the mountains in scales, and the hills in a balance?

40:13    誰曾測度耶和華的心（或作誰曾指示耶和華的靈），或作他的謀士指教他呢。
Who hath directed the Spirit of the LORD, or being his counsellor hath taught him?

40:14    他與誰商議，誰教導他，誰將公平的路指示他，又將知識教訓他，將通達的道指教他呢。
With whom took he counsel, and who instructed him, and taught him in the path of judgment, and taught him knowledge, and shewed to him the way of understanding?

40:15    看哪，萬民都像水桶的一滴，又算如天平上的微塵。他舉起眾海島，好像極微之物。
Behold, the nations are as a drop of a bucket, and are counted as the small dust of the balance: behold, he taketh up the isles as a very little thing.

40:16    黎巴嫩的樹林不彀當柴燒，其中的走獸也不彀作燔祭。
And Lebanon is not sufficient to burn, nor the beasts thereof sufficient for a burnt offering.

40:17    萬民在他面前好像虛無，被他看為不及虛無，乃為虛空。
All nations before him are as nothing; and they are counted to him less than nothing, and vanity.

40:18    你們究竟將誰比神，用什麼形像與神比較呢。
To whom then will ye liken God? or what likeness will ye compare unto him?

40:19    偶像是匠人制造，銀匠用金包裹，為他鑄造銀鏈。
The workman melteth a graven image, and the goldsmith spreadeth it over with gold, and casteth silver chains.

40:20    窮乏獻不起這樣供物的，就揀選不能朽壞的樹木，為自己尋梢巧匠，立起不能搖動的偶像。
He that is so impoverished that he hath no oblation chooseth a tree that will not rot; he seeketh unto him a cunning workman to prepare a graven image, that shall not be moved.

40:21    你們豈不曾知道嗎，你們豈不曾聽見嗎，從起初豈沒有人告訴你們嗎，自從立地的根基，你們豈沒有明白嗎。
Have ye not known? have ye not heard? hath it not been told you from the beginning? have ye not understood from the foundations of the earth?

40:22    神坐在地球大圈之上，地上的居民好像蝗蟲。他鋪張穹蒼如幔子，展開諸天如可住的帳棚。
It is he that sitteth upon the circle of the earth, and the inhabitants thereof are as grasshoppers; that stretcheth out the heavens as a curtain, and spreadeth them out as a tent to dwell in:

40:23    他使君王歸於虛無，使地上的審判官成為虛空。
That bringeth the princes to nothing; he maketh the judges of the earth as vanity.

40:24    他們是剛才栽上，（剛才或作不曾下同）剛才種上，根也剛才紮在地裡，他一吹在其上，便都枯乾，旋風將他們吹去，像碎秸一樣。
Yea, they shall not be planted; yea, they shall not be sown: yea, their stock shall not take root in the earth: and he shall also blow upon them, and they shall wither, and the whirlwind shall take them away as stubble.

40:25    那聖者說，你們將誰比我，叫他與我相等呢。
To whom then will ye liken me, or shall I be equal? saith the Holy One.

40:26    你們向上舉目，看誰創造這永珍，按數目領出，他一一稱其名。因他的權能，又因他的大能大力，連一個都不缺。
Lift up your eyes on high, and behold who hath created these things, that bringeth out their host by number: he calleth them all by names by the greatness of his might, for that he is strong in power; not one faileth.

40:27    雅各阿，你為何說我的道路向耶和華隱藏。以色列阿，你為何言，我的冤屈神並不查問。
Why sayest thou, O Jacob, and speakest, O Israel, My way is hid from the LORD, and my judgment is passed over from my God?

40:28    你豈不曾知道嗎，你豈不曾聽見嗎，永在的神耶和華，創造地極的主，並不疲乏，也不睏倦。他的智慧無法測度。
Hast thou not known? hast thou not heard, that the everlasting God, the LORD, the Creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary? there is no searching of his understanding.

40:29    疲乏的，他賜能力。軟弱的，他加力量。
He giveth power to the faint; and to them that have no might he increaseth strength.

40:30    就是少年人也要疲乏困倦，強壯的也必全然跌倒。
Even the youths shall faint and be weary, and the young men shall utterly fall:

40:31    但那等候耶和華的，必從新得力，他們必如鷹展翅上騰，他們奔跑卻不睏倦，行走卻不疲乏。
But they that wait upon the LORD shall renew their strength; they shall mount up with wings as eagles; they shall run, and not be weary; and they shall walk, and not faint.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 41 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


41:1    眾海島阿，當在我面前靜默，眾民當從新得力，都要近前來才可以說話。我們可以彼此辯論。
Keep silence before me, O islands; and let the people renew their strength: let them come near; then let them speak: let us come near together to judgment.

41:2    誰從東方興起一人，憑公義召他來到腳前呢。耶和華將列國交給他，使他管轄君王，把他們如灰塵交與他的刀，如風吹的碎秸交與他的弓。
Who raised up the righteous man from the east, called him to his foot, gave the nations before him, and made him rule over kings? he gave them as the dust to his sword, and as driven stubble to his bow.

41:3    他追趕他們，走他所未走的道，坦然前行。
He pursued them, and passed safely; even by the way that he had not gone with his feet.

41:4    誰行作成就這事，從起初宣召歷代呢，就是我耶和華，我是首先的。也與末後的同在。
Who hath wrought and done it, calling the generations from the beginning? I the LORD, the first, and with the last; I am he.

41:5    海島看見就都害怕，地極也都戰兢，就近前來。
The isles saw it, and feared; the ends of the earth were afraid, drew near, and came.

41:6    他們各人幫助鄰舍，各人對弟兄說，壯膽吧。
They helped every one his neighbour; and every one said to his brother, Be of good courage.

41:7    木匠勉勵銀匠，用槌打光的勉勵打砧的，論焊工說，焊得好。又用釘子釘穩，免得偶像動搖。
So the carpenter encouraged the goldsmith, and he that smootheth with the hammer him that smote the anvil, saying, It is ready for the sodering: and he fastened it with nails, that it should not be moved.

41:8    惟你以色列我的僕人，雅各我所揀選的，我朋籽亞伯拉罕的後裔，
But thou, Israel, art my servant, Jacob whom I have chosen, the seed of Abraham my friend.

41:9    你是我從地極所領（原文作抓）來的，從地角所召來的，且對你說，你是我的僕人，我揀選你並不棄絕你。
Thou whom I have taken from the ends of the earth, and called thee from the chief men thereof, and said unto thee, Thou art my servant; I have chosen thee, and not cast thee away.

41:10    你不要害怕，因為我與你同在。不要驚惶，因為我是你的神。我必堅固你，我必幫助你，我必用我公義的右手扶持你。
Fear thou not; for I am with thee: be not dismayed; for I am thy God: I will strengthen thee; yea, I will help thee; yea, I will uphold thee with the right hand of my righteousness.

41:11    凡向你發怒的，必都抱愧蒙羞。與你相爭的，必如無有，並要滅亡。
Behold, all they that were incensed against thee shall be ashamed and confounded: they shall be as nothing; and they that strive with thee shall perish.

41:12    與你爭競的，你要找他們也找不著。與你爭戰的，必如無有，成為虛無。
Thou shalt seek them, and shalt not find them, even them that contended with thee: they that war against thee shall be as nothing, and as a thing of nought.

41:13    因為我耶和華你的神，必攙扶你的右手，對你說，不要害怕，我必幫助你。
For I the LORD thy God will hold thy right hand, saying unto thee, Fear not; I will help thee.

41:14    你這蟲雅各，和你們以色列人，不要害怕。耶和華說，我必幫助你。你的救贖主，就是以色列的聖者。
Fear not, thou worm Jacob, and ye men of Israel; I will help thee, saith the LORD, and thy redeemer, the Holy One of Israel.

41:15    看哪，我已使你成為有快齒打糧的新器具，你要把山嶺打得粉碎，使岡陵如同糠？？。
Behold, I will make thee a new sharp threshing instrument having teeth: thou shalt thresh the mountains, and beat them small, and shalt make the hills as chaff.

41:16    你要把他簸揚風要吹去，旋風要把他刮散。你倒要以耶和華為喜樂，以以色列的聖者為誇耀。
Thou shalt fan them, and the wind shall carry them away, and the whirlwind shall scatter them: and thou shalt rejoice in the LORD, and shalt glory in the Holy One of Israel.

41:17    困苦窮乏人尋求水卻沒有，他們因口渴，舌頭乾燥。我耶和華必應允他們，我以色列的神必不離棄他們。
When the poor and needy seek water, and there is none, and their tongue faileth for thirst, I the LORD will hear them, I the God of Israel will not forsake them.

41:18    我要在淨光的高處開江河，在谷中開泉源，我要使沙漠變為水池，使乾地變為湧泉。
I will open rivers in high places, and fountains in the midst of the valleys: I will make the wilderness a pool of water, and the dry land springs of water.

41:19    我要在曠野種上香柏樹，皂莢樹，番石榴樹，和野橄欖樹。我在沙漠要把松樹，杉樹，並黃楊樹，一同栽植。
I will plant in the wilderness the cedar, the shittah tree, and the myrtle, and the oil tree; I will set in the desert the fir tree, and the pine, and the box tree together:

41:20    好叫人看見，知道，思想，明白，這是耶和華的手所作的，是以色列的聖者所造的。
That they may see, and know, and consider, and understand together, that the hand of the LORD hath done this, and the Holy One of Israel hath created it.

41:21    耶和華對假神說，你們要呈上你們的案件，雅各的君說，你們要宣告你們確實的理由。
Produce your cause, saith the LORD; bring forth your strong reasons, saith the King of Jacob.

41:22    可以宣告，指示我們將來必遇的事，說明先前的是什麼事，好叫我們思索，得知事的結局，或者把將來的事指示我們。
Let them bring them forth, and shew us what shall happen: let them shew the former things, what they be, that we may consider them, and know the latter end of them; or declare us things for to come.

41:23    要說明後來的事，好叫我們知道你們是神，你們或降福，或降禍，使我們驚奇，一同觀看。
Shew the things that are to come hereafter, that we may know that ye are gods: yea, do good, or do evil, that we may be dismayed, and behold it together.

41:24    看哪，你們屬乎虛無，你們的作為也屬乎虛無。那選擇你們的是可憎惡的。
Behold, ye are of nothing, and your work of nought: an abomination is he that chooseth you.

41:25    我從北方興起一人，他是求告我名的，從日出之地而來。他必臨到掌權的，好像臨到灰泥，彷佛窯匠踹泥一樣。
I have raised up one from the north, and he shall come: from the rising of the sun shall he call upon my name: and he shall come upon princes as upon morter, and as the potter treadeth clay.

41:26    誰從起初指明這事，使我們知道呢。誰從先前說明，使我們說，他不錯呢。誰也沒有指明，誰也沒有說明。誰也沒有聽見你們的話。
Who hath declared from the beginning, that we may know? and beforetime, that we may say, He is righteous? yea, there is none that sheweth, yea, there is none that declareth, yea, there is none that heareth your words.

41:27    我首先對錫安說，看哪，我要將一位報好資訊的賜給耶路撒冷。
The first shall say to Zion, Behold, behold them: and I will give to Jerusalem one that bringeth good tidings.

41:28    我看的時候並沒有人，我問的時候他們中間也沒有謀士，可以回答一句。
For I beheld, and there was no man; even among them, and there was no counsellor, that, when I asked of them, could answer a word.

41:29    看哪，他們和他們的工作，都是虛空，且是虛無。他們所鑄的偶像都是風，都是虛的。
Behold, they are all vanity; their works are nothing: their molten images are wind and confusion.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 42 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


42:1    看哪，我的僕人，我所扶持，所揀選，心裡所喜悅的，我已將我的靈賜給他，他必將公理傳給外邦。
Behold my servant, whom I uphold; mine elect, in whom my soul delighteth; I have put my spirit upon him: he shall bring forth judgment to the Gentiles.

42:2    他不喧囔，不揚聲，也不使街上聽見他的聲音。
He shall not cry, nor lift up, nor cause his voice to be heard in the street.

42:3    壓傷的蘆葦，他不折斷。將殘的燈火，他不吹滅。他憑真實將公理傳開。
A bruised reed shall he not break, and the smoking flax shall he not quench: he shall bring forth judgment unto truth.

42:4    他不灰心，也不喪膽，直到他在地上設立公理。海島都等候他的訓誨。
He shall not fail nor be discouraged, till he have set judgment in the earth: and the isles shall wait for his law.

42:5    創造諸天，鋪張穹蒼，將地和地所出的一併鋪開，賜氣息給地上的眾人，又賜靈性給行在其上之人的神之和華，他如此說，
Thus saith God the LORD, he that created the heavens, and stretched them out; he that spread forth the earth, and that which cometh out of it; he that giveth breath unto the people upon it, and spirit to them that walk therein:

42:6    我耶和華憑公義召你，必攙扶你的手，保守你，使你作眾民的中保，（中保原文作約）作外邦人的光，
I the LORD have called thee in righteousness, and will hold thine hand, and will keep thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, for a light of the Gentiles;

42:7    開瞎子的眼，領被囚的出牢獄，領坐黑暗的出監牢。
To open the blind eyes, to bring out the prisoners from the prison, and them that sit in darkness out of the prison house.

42:8    我是耶和華，這是我的名。我必不將我的榮耀歸給假神，也不將我的稱讚歸給雕刻的偶像。
I am the LORD: that is my name: and my glory will I not give to another, neither my praise to graven images.

42:9    看哪，先前的事已經成就，現在我將新事說明，這事未發以前，我就說給你們聽。
Behold, the former things are come to pass, and new things do I declare: before they spring forth I tell you of them.

42:10    航海的，和海中所有的，海島，和其上的居民，都當向耶和華唱新歌，從地極讚美他。
Sing unto the LORD a new song, and his praise from the end of the earth, ye that go down to the sea, and all that is therein; the isles, and the inhabitants thereof.

42:11    曠野和其中的城邑，並基達人居住的村莊，都當揚聲。西拉的居民當歡呼，在山頂上吶喊。
Let the wilderness and the cities thereof lift up their voice, the villages that Kedar doth inhabit: let the inhabitants of the rock sing, let them shout from the top of the mountains.

42:12    他們當將榮耀歸給耶和華，在海島中傳揚他的頌讚。
Let them give glory unto the LORD, and declare his praise in the islands.

42:13    耶和華必像勇士出去，必像戰士激動熱心，要喊叫，大聲吶喊，要用大力攻擊仇敵。
The LORD shall go forth as a mighty man, he shall stir up jealousy like a man of war: he shall cry, yea, roar; he shall prevail against his enemies.

42:14    我許久閉口不言，靜默不語，現在我要喊叫像產難的婦人，我要急氣而喘哮。
I have long time holden my peace; I have been still, and refrained myself: now will I cry like a travailing woman; I will destroy and devour at once.

42:15    我要使大山小岡變為荒場，使其上的花草都枯乾，我要使江河變為洲島，使水池都乾涸。
I will make waste mountains and hills, and dry up all their herbs; and I will make the rivers islands, and I will dry up the pools.

42:16    我要引瞎子行不認識的道，領他們走不知道的路。在他們面前使黑暗變為光明，使彎曲變為平直。這些事我都要行，並不離棄他們。
And I will bring the blind by a way that they knew not; I will lead them in paths that they have not known: I will make darkness light before them, and crooked things straight. These things will I do unto them, and not forsake them.

42:17    倚靠雕刻的偶像，對鑄造的偶像說，你是我們的神，這等人要退後，全然蒙羞。
They shall be turned back, they shall be greatly ashamed, that trust in graven images, that say to the molten images, Ye are our gods.

42:18    你們這耳聾的聽吧。你們這眼瞎的看吧。使你們能看見。
Hear, ye deaf; and look, ye blind, that ye may see.

42:19    誰比我的僕人眼瞎呢，誰比我差遣的使者耳聾呢，誰瞎眼像那與我和好的，誰瞎眼像耶和華的僕人呢。
Who is blind, but my servant? or deaf, as my messenger that I sent? who is blind as he that is perfect, and blind as the LORD's servant?

42:20    你看見許多事卻不領會。耳朵開通卻不聽見。
Seeing many things, but thou observest not; opening the ears, but he heareth not.

42:21    耶和華因自己公義的緣故，喜歡使律法（或作訓誨）為大，為尊。
The LORD is well pleased for his righteousness' sake; he will magnify the law, and make it honourable.

42:22    但這百姓是被搶被奪的，都牢籠在坑中，隱藏在獄裡，他們作掠物，無人拯救，作擄物，無人說交還。
But this is a people robbed and spoiled; they are all of them snared in holes, and they are hid in prison houses: they are for a prey, and none delivereth; for a spoil, and none saith, Restore.

42:23    你們中間誰肯側耳聽此，誰肯留心而聽，以防將來呢。
Who among you will give ear to this? who will hearken and hear for the time to come?

42:24    誰將雅各交出當作擄物，將以色列交給搶奪的呢，豈不是耶和華嗎，就是我們所得罪的那位。他們不肯遵行他的道，也不聽從他的訓誨。
Who gave Jacob for a spoil, and Israel to the robbers? did not the LORD, he against whom we have sinned? for they would not walk in his ways, neither were they obedient unto his law.

42:25    所以他將猛烈的怒氣，和爭戰的勇力，傾倒在以色列的身上。在他四圍如火著起，他還不知道，燒著他，他也不介意。
Therefore he hath poured upon him the fury of his anger, and the strength of battle: and it hath set him on fire round about, yet he knew not; and it burned him, yet he laid it not to heart.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 43 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


43:1    雅各阿，創造你的耶和華，以色列阿，造成你的那位，現在如此說，你不要害怕，因為我救贖了你。我曾題你的名召你，你是屬我的。
But now thus saith the LORD that created thee, O Jacob, and he that formed thee, O Israel, Fear not: for I have redeemed thee, I have called thee by thy name; thou art mine.

43:2    你從水中經過，我必與你同在。你趟過江河，水必不漫過你。你從火中行過，必不被燒，火焰也不著在你身上。
When thou passest through the waters, I will be with thee; and through the rivers, they shall not overflow thee: when thou walkest through the fire, thou shalt not be burned; neither shall the flame kindle upon thee.

43:3    因為我是耶和華你的神，是以色列的聖者你的救主。我已經使埃及作你的贖價，使古實和西巴代替你。
For I am the LORD thy God, the Holy One of Israel, thy Saviour: I gave Egypt for thy ransom, Ethiopia and Seba for thee.

43:4    因我看你為寶為尊，又因我愛你，所以我使人代替你，使列邦人替換你的生命。
Since thou wast precious in my sight, thou hast been honourable, and I have loved thee: therefore will I give men for thee, and people for thy life.

43:5    不要害怕，因我與你同在。我必領你的後裔從東方來，又從西方招聚你。
Fear not: for I am with thee: I will bring thy seed from the east, and gather thee from the west;

43:6    我要對北方說，交出來。對南方說，不要拘留。將我的眾子從遠方帶來，將我的眾女從地極領回，
I will say to the north, Give up; and to the south, Keep not back: bring my sons from far, and my daughters from the ends of the earth;

43:7    就是凡稱為我名下的人，是我為自己的榮耀創造的，是我作成，所造作的。
Even every one that is called by my name: for I have created him for my glory, I have formed him; yea, I have made him.

43:8    你要將有眼而瞎，有耳而聾的民都帶出來。
Bring forth the blind people that have eyes, and the deaf that have ears.

43:9    任憑萬國聚集，任憑眾民會合，其中誰能將此宣告，並將先前的事說給我們聽呢。他們可以帶出見證來，自顯為是，或者他們聽見便說，這是真的。
Let all the nations be gathered together, and let the people be assembled: who among them can declare this, and shew us former things? let them bring forth their witnesses, that they may be justified: or let them hear, and say, It is truth.

43:10    耶和華說，你們是我的見證，我所揀選的僕人。既是這樣，便可以知道，且信服我，又明白我就是耶和華，在我以前沒有真神，（真原文作造作的）在我以後也必沒有。
Ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, and my servant whom I have chosen: that ye may know and believe me, and understand that I am he: before me there was no God formed, neither shall there be after me.

43:11    惟有我是耶和華，除我以外沒有救主。
I, even I, am the LORD; and beside me there is no saviour.

43:12    我曾指示，我曾拯救，我曾說明。並且在你們中間沒有別神，所以耶和華說，你們是我的見證，我也是神。
I have declared, and have saved, and I have shewed, when there was no strange god among you: therefore ye are my witnesses, saith the LORD, that I am God.

43:13    自從有日子以來，我就是神。誰也不能救人脫離我手，我要行事，誰能阻止呢。
Yea, before the day was I am he; and there is none that can deliver out of my hand: I will work, and who shall let it?

43:14    耶和華你們的救贖主，以色列的聖者如此說，因你們的緣故，我已經打發人到巴比倫去，並且我要使迦勒底人如逃民，都坐自己喜樂的船下來。
Thus saith the LORD, your redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; For your sake I have sent to Babylon, and have brought down all their nobles, and the Chaldeans, whose cry is in the ships.

43:15    我是耶和華你們的聖者，是創造以色列的，是你們的君王。
I am the LORD, your Holy One, the creator of Israel, your King.

43:16    耶和華在滄海中開道，在大水中開路。
Thus saith the LORD, which maketh a way in the sea, and a path in the mighty waters;

43:17    使車輛，馬匹，軍兵，勇士都出來，一同躺下不再起來，他們滅沒好像熄滅的燈火。
Which bringeth forth the chariot and horse, the army and the power; they shall lie down together, they shall not rise: they are extinct, they are quenched as tow.

43:18    耶和華如此說，你們不要記念從前的事，也不要思想古時的事。
Remember ye not the former things, neither consider the things of old.

43:19    看哪，我要做一件新事，如今要發現，你們豈不知道嗎。我必在曠野開道路，在沙漠開江河。
Behold, I will do a new thing; now it shall spring forth; shall ye not know it? I will even make a way in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert.

43:20    野地的走獸必尊重我，野狗和鴕鳥也必如此，因我使曠野有水，使沙漠有河，好賜給我的百姓我的選民喝。
The beast of the field shall honour me, the dragons and the owls: because I give waters in the wilderness, and rivers in the desert, to give drink to my people, my chosen.

43:21    這百姓是我為自己所造的，好述說我的美德。
This people have I formed for myself; they shall shew forth my praise.

43:22    雅各阿，你並沒有求告我。以色列阿，你倒厭煩我。
But thou hast not called upon me, O Jacob; but thou hast been weary of me, O Israel.

43:23    你沒有將你的羊帶來給我作燔祭，也沒有用祭物尊敬我。我沒有因供物使你服勞，也沒有因乳香使你厭煩。
Thou hast not brought me the small cattle of thy burnt offerings; neither hast thou honoured me with thy sacrifices. I have not caused thee to serve with an offering, nor wearied thee with incense.

43:24    你沒有用銀子為我買菖蒲，也沒有用祭物的脂油使我飽足，倒使我因你的罪惡服勞，使我因你的罪孽厭煩。
Thou hast bought me no sweet cane with money, neither hast thou filled me with the fat of thy sacrifices: but thou hast made me to serve with thy sins, thou hast wearied me with thine iniquities.

43:25    惟有我為自己的緣故塗抹你的過犯，我也不記念你的罪惡。
I, even I, am he that blotteth out thy transgressions for mine own sake, and will not remember thy sins.

43:26    你要題醒我，你我可以一同辯論，你可以將你的理陳明，自顯為義。
Put me in remembrance: let us plead together: declare thou, that thou mayest be justified.

43:27    你的始祖犯罪，你的師傅違揹我。
Thy first father hath sinned, and thy teachers have transgressed against me.

43:28    所以我要辱沒聖所的首領，使雅各成為咒詛，使以色列成為辱罵。
Therefore I have profaned the princes of the sanctuary, and have given Jacob to the curse, and Israel to reproaches.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 44 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


44:1    我的僕人雅各，我所揀選的以色列阿，現在你當聽。
Yet now hear, O Jacob my servant; and Israel, whom I have chosen:

44:2    造作你，又從你出胎造就你，並要幫助你的耶和華如此說，我的僕人雅各，我所揀選的耶書侖哪，不要害怕。
Thus saith the LORD that made thee, and formed thee from the womb, which will help thee; Fear not, O Jacob, my servant; and thou, Jesurun, whom I have chosen.

44:3    因為我要將水澆灌口渴的人，將河澆灌乾旱之地。我要將我的靈澆灌你的後裔，將我的福澆灌你的子孫。
For I will pour water upon him that is thirsty, and floods upon the dry ground: I will pour my spirit upon thy seed, and my blessing upon thine offspring:

44:4    他們要發生在草中，像溪水旁的柳樹。
And they shall spring up as among the grass, as willows by the water courses.

44:5    這個要說，我是屬耶和華的。那個要以雅各的名自稱。又一個要親手寫歸耶和華的（或作在手上寫歸耶和華）並自稱為以色列。
One shall say, I am the LORD's; and another shall call himself by the name of Jacob; and another shall subscribe with his hand unto the LORD, and surname himself by the name of Israel.

44:6    耶和華以色列的君，以色列的救贖主萬軍之耶和華如此說，我是首先的，我是末後的，除我以外，再沒有真神。
Thus saith the LORD the King of Israel, and his redeemer the LORD of hosts; I am the first, and I am the last; and beside me there is no God.

44:7    自從我設立古時的民，誰能像我宣告，並且指明，又為自己陳說呢。讓他將未來的事，和必成的事說明。
And who, as I, shall call, and shall declare it, and set it in order for me, since I appointed the ancient people? and the things that are coming, and shall come, let them shew unto them.

44:8    你們不要恐懼，也不要害怕。我豈不是從上古就指示說明你們嗎，並且你們是我的見證，除我以外，豈有真神嗎，誠然沒有磐石，我不知道一個。
Fear ye not, neither be afraid: have not I told thee from that time, and have declared it? ye are even my witnesses. Is there a God beside me? yea, there is no God; I know not any.

44:9    製造雕刻偶像的，盡都虛空。他們所喜悅的，都無益處。他們的見證，無所看見，無所知曉，他們便覺羞愧。
They that make a graven image are all of them vanity; and their delectable things shall not profit; and they are their own witnesses; they see not, nor know; that they may be ashamed.

44:10    誰製造神像，鑄造無益的偶像。
Who hath formed a god, or molten a graven image that is profitable for nothing?

44:11    看哪，他們的同伴都必羞愧，工匠也不過是人。任他們聚會，任他們站立，都必懼怕，一同羞愧。
Behold, all his fellows shall be ashamed: and the workmen, they are of men: let them all be gathered together, let them stand up; yet they shall fear, and they shall be ashamed together.

44:12    鐵匠把鐵在火炭中燒熱，用槌打鐵器，用他有力的臂膀錘成。他飢餓而無力，不喝水而發倦。
The smith with the tongs both worketh in the coals, and fashioneth it with hammers, and worketh it with the strength of his arms: yea, he is hungry, and his strength faileth: he drinketh no water, and is faint.

44:13    木匠拉線，用筆劃出樣子。用刨子刨成形狀，用圓尺劃了模樣，仿照人的體態，作成人形，好住在房屋中。
The carpenter stretcheth out his rule; he marketh it out with a line; he fitteth it with planes, and he marketh it out with the compass, and maketh it after the figure of a man, according to the beauty of a man; that it may remain in the house.

44:14    他砍伐香柏樹，又取柞（或作青桐）樹和橡樹，在樹林中選定了一棵。他栽種松樹得雨長養，
He heweth him down cedars, and taketh the cypress and the oak, which he strengtheneth for himself among the trees of the forest: he planteth an ash, and the rain doth nourish it.

44:15    這樹，人可用以燒火，他自己取些烤火，又燒著烤餅。而且作神像跪拜，作雕刻的偶像向他叩拜。
Then shall it be for a man to burn: for he will take thereof, and warm himself; yea, he kindleth it, and baketh bread; yea, he maketh a god, and worshippeth it; he maketh it a graven image, and falleth down thereto.

44:16    他把一分燒在火中，把一分烤肉吃飽。自己烤火說，阿哈，我暖和了，我見火了。
He burneth part thereof in the fire; with part thereof he eateth flesh; he roasteth roast, and is satisfied: yea, he warmeth himself, and saith, Aha, I am warm, I have seen the fire:

44:17    他用剩下的作了一神，就是雕刻的偶像，他向這偶像俯伏叩拜，禱告他說，求你拯救我，因你是我的神。
And the residue thereof he maketh a god, even his graven image: he falleth down unto it, and worshippeth it, and prayeth unto it, and saith, Deliver me; for thou art my god.

44:18    他們不知道，也不思想，因為耶和華閉住他們的眼不能看見，塞住他們的心不能明白。
They have not known nor understood: for he hath shut their eyes, that they cannot see; and their hearts, that they cannot understand.

44:19    誰心裡也不醒悟，也沒有知識，沒有聰明，能說，我曾拿一分在火中燒了，在炭上烤過餅，我也烤過肉吃，這剩下的，我豈要作可憎的物嗎。我豈可向木？？子叩拜呢。
And none considereth in his heart, neither is there knowledge nor understanding to say, I have burned part of it in the fire; yea, also I have baked bread upon the coals thereof; I have roasted flesh, and eaten it: and shall I make the residue thereof an abomination? shall I fall down to the stock of a tree?

44:20    他以灰為食，心中昏迷，使他偏邪，他不能自救，也不能說，我右手中豈不是有虛謊嗎。
He feedeth on ashes: a deceived heart hath turned him aside, that he cannot deliver his soul, nor say, Is there not a lie in my right hand?

44:21    雅各以色列阿，你是我的僕人，要記念這些事。以色列阿，你是我的僕人，我造就你必不忘記你。
Remember these, O Jacob and Israel; for thou art my servant: I have formed thee; thou art my servant: O Israel, thou shalt not be forgotten of me.

44:22    我塗抹了你的過犯，像厚雲消散。我塗抹了你的罪惡，如薄雲滅沒。你當歸向我，因我救贖了你。
I have blotted out, as a thick cloud, thy transgressions, and, as a cloud, thy sins: return unto me; for I have redeemed thee.

44:23    諸天哪，應當歌唱，因為耶和華作成這事。地的深處阿，應當歡呼，眾山應當發聲歌唱，樹林和其中所有的樹，都當如此，因為耶和華救贖了雅各，並要因以色列榮耀自己。
Sing, O ye heavens; for the LORD hath done it: shout, ye lower parts of the earth: break forth into singing, ye mountains, O forest, and every tree therein: for the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, and glorified himself in Israel.

44:24    從你出胎，造就你的救贖主耶和華如此說，我耶和華是創造萬物的，是獨自鋪張諸天，鋪開大地的。（誰與我同在呢）
Thus saith the LORD, thy redeemer, and he that formed thee from the womb, I am the LORD that maketh all things; that stretcheth forth the heavens alone; that spreadeth abroad the earth by myself;

44:25    使說假話的兆頭失效，使占卜的癲狂，使智慧人退後，使他的知識變為愚拙。
That frustrateth the tokens of the liars, and maketh diviners mad; that turneth wise men backward, and maketh their knowledge foolish;

44:26    使我僕人的話語立定，我使者的謀算成就。論到耶路撒冷說，必有人居住。論到猶大的城邑說，必被建造。其中的荒場我也必興起。
That confirmeth the word of his servant, and performeth the counsel of his messengers; that saith to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be inhabited; and to the cities of Judah, Ye shall be built, and I will raise up the decayed places thereof:

44:27    對深淵說，你乾了吧。我也要使你的江河乾涸。
That saith to the deep, Be dry, and I will dry up thy rivers:

44:28    論居魯士說，他是我的牧人，必成就我所喜悅的，必下令建造耶路撒冷，發令立穩聖殿的根基。
That saith of Cyrus, He is my shepherd, and shall perform all my pleasure: even saying to Jerusalem, Thou shalt be built; and to the temple, Thy foundation shall be laid.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 45 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


45:1    我耶和華所的膏的居魯士，我攙扶他的右手，使列國降伏在他面前，我也要放鬆列王的腰帶，使城門在他面前敞開，不得關閉，我對他如此說，
Thus saith the LORD to his anointed, to Cyrus, whose right hand I have holden, to subdue nations before him; and I will loose the loins of kings, to open before him the two leaved gates; and the gates shall not be shut;

45:2    我必在你面前行，修平崎嶇之地。我必打破銅門，砍斷鐵閂。
I will go before thee, and make the crooked places straight: I will break in pieces the gates of brass, and cut in sunder the bars of iron:

45:3    我要將暗中的寶物，和隱密的財寶賜給你，使你知道題名召你的，就是我耶和華以色列的神。
And I will give thee the treasures of darkness, and hidden riches of secret places, that thou mayest know that I, the LORD, which call thee by thy name, am the God of Israel.

45:4    因我僕人雅各，我所揀選以色列的緣故，我就題名召你。你雖不認識我，我也加給你名號。
For Jacob my servant's sake, and Israel mine elect, I have even called thee by thy name: I have surnamed thee, though thou hast not known me.

45:5    我是耶和華，在我以外並沒有別神，除了我以外再沒有神。你雖不認識我，我必給你束腰，
I am the LORD, and there is none else, there is no God beside me: I girded thee, though thou hast not known me:

45:6    從日出之地到日落之處，使人都知道除了我以外，沒有別神，我是耶和華，在我以外並沒有別神。
That they may know from the rising of the sun, and from the west, that there is none beside me. I am the LORD, and there is none else.

45:7    我造光，又造暗。我施平安，又降災禍。造作這一切的是我耶和華。
I form the light, and create darkness: I make peace, and create evil: I the LORD do all these things.

45:8    諸天哪，自上而滴。穹蒼降下公義，地面開裂，產出救恩，使公義一同發生，這都是我耶和華所造的。
Drop down, ye heavens, from above, and let the skies pour down righteousness: let the earth open, and let them bring forth salvation, and let righteousness spring up together; I the LORD have created it.

45:9    禍哉，那與造他的主爭論的，他不過是地上瓦片中的一塊瓦片。泥土豈可對摶弄他的說，你作什麼呢。所作的物，豈可說，你沒有手呢。
Woe unto him that striveth with his Maker! Let the potsherd strive with the potsherds of the earth. Shall the clay say to him that fashioneth it, What makest thou? or thy work, He hath no hands?

45:10    禍哉，那對父親說，你生的是什麼呢。或對母親（原文作婦人）說，你產的是什麼呢。
Woe unto him that saith unto his father, What begettest thou? or to the woman, What hast thou brought forth?

45:11    耶和華以色列的聖者，就是造就以色列的，如此說，將來的事你們可以問我。至於我的眾子，並我手的工作，你們可以求我命定。（求我命定原文作吩咐我）
Thus saith the LORD, the Holy One of Israel, and his Maker, Ask me of things to come concerning my sons, and concerning the work of my hands command ye me.

45:12    我造地，又造人在地上，我親手鋪張諸天，天上永珍也是我所命定的。
I have made the earth, and created man upon it: I, even my hands, have stretched out the heavens, and all their host have I commanded.

45:13    我憑公義興起居魯士，（居魯士原文作他）又要修直他一切道路。他必建造我的城，釋放我被擄的民，不是為工價，也不是為賞賜。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
I have raised him up in righteousness, and I will direct all his ways: he shall build my city, and he shall let go my captives, not for price nor reward, saith the LORD of hosts.

45:14    耶和華如此說，埃及勞碌得來的，和古實的貨物必歸你，身量高大的西巴人，必投降你，也要屬你，他們必帶著鎖鏈過來隨從你。又向你下拜祈求你說，神真在你們中間，此外再沒有別神；再沒有別神。
Thus saith the LORD, The labour of Egypt, and merchandise of Ethiopia and of the Sabeans, men of stature, shall come over unto thee, and they shall be thine: they shall come after thee; in chains they shall come over, and they shall fall down unto thee, they shall make supplication unto thee, saying, Surely God is in thee; and there is none else, there is no God.

45:15    救主以色列的神阿，你實在是自隱的神。
Verily thou art a God that hidest thyself, O God of Israel, the Saviour.

45:16    凡製造偶像的，都必抱愧蒙羞，都要一同歸於慚愧。
They shall be ashamed, and also confounded, all of them: they shall go to confusion together that are makers of idols.

45:17    惟有以色列必蒙耶和華的拯救，得永遠的救恩。你們必不蒙羞，也不抱愧，直到永世無盡。
But Israel shall be saved in the LORD with an everlasting salvation: ye shall not be ashamed nor confounded world without end.

45:18    創造諸天的耶和華，製造成全大地的神，他創造堅定大地，並非使地荒涼，是要給人居住。他如此說，我是耶和華，再沒有別神。
For thus saith the LORD that created the heavens; God himself that formed the earth and made it; he hath established it, he created it not in vain, he formed it to be inhabited: I am the LORD; and there is none else.

45:19    我沒有在隱密黑暗之地說話，我沒有對雅各的後裔說，你們尋求我是徒然的，我耶和華所講的是公義，所說的是正直。
I have not spoken in secret, in a dark place of the earth: I said not unto the seed of Jacob, Seek ye me in vain: I the LORD speak righteousness, I declare things that are right.

45:20    你們從列國逃脫的人，要一同聚集前來。那些抬著雕刻木偶，禱告不能救人之神的，毫無知識。
Assemble yourselves and come; draw near together, ye that are escaped of the nations: they have no knowledge that set up the wood of their graven image, and pray unto a god that cannot save.

45:21    你們要述說陳明你們的理，讓他們彼此商議。誰從古時指明，誰從上古述說，不是我耶和華嗎，除了我以外，再沒有神。我是公義的神，又是救主，除了我以外，再沒有別神。
Tell ye, and bring them near; yea, let them take counsel together: who hath declared this from ancient time? who hath told it from that time? have not I the LORD? and there is no God else beside me; a just God and a Saviour; there is none beside me.

45:22    地極的人都當仰望我，就必得救。因為我是神，再沒有別神。
Look unto me, and be ye saved, all the ends of the earth: for I am God, and there is none else.

45:23    我指著自己起誓，我口所出的話是憑公義，並不反回，萬膝必向我跪拜，萬口必憑我起誓。
I have sworn by myself, the word is gone out of my mouth in righteousness, and shall not return, That unto me every knee shall bow, every tongue shall swear.

45:24    人論我說，公義，能力，惟獨在乎耶和華。人都必歸向他，凡向他發怒的，必至蒙羞。
Surely, shall one say, in the LORD have I righteousness and strength: even to him shall men come; and all that are incensed against him shall be ashamed.

45:25    以色列的後裔，都必因耶和華得稱為義，並要誇耀。
In the LORD shall all the seed of Israel be justified, and shall glory.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 46 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


46:1    彼勒屈身，尼波彎腰。巴比倫的偶像馱在獸和牲畜上，他們所抬的如今成了重馱，使牲畜疲乏。
Bel boweth down, Nebo stoopeth, their idols were upon the beasts, and upon the cattle: your carriages were heavy loaden; they are a burden to the weary beast.

46:2    都一同彎腰屈身，不能保全重馱，自己倒被擄去。
They stoop, they bow down together; they could not deliver the burden, but themselves are gone into captivity.

46:3    雅各家，以色列家一切剩餘的，要聽我言，你們自從生下，就蒙我保抱，自從出胎，便蒙我懷搋。
Hearken unto me, O house of Jacob, and all the remnant of the house of Israel, which are borne by me from the belly, which are carried from the womb:

46:4    直到你們年老，我仍這樣，直到你們發白，我仍懷搋，我已造作，也必保抱，我必懷抱，也必拯救。
And even to your old age I am he; and even to hoar hairs will I carry you: I have made, and I will bear; even I will carry, and will deliver you.

46:5    你們將誰與我相比，與我同等，可以與我比較，使我們相同呢。
To whom will ye liken me, and make me equal, and compare me, that we may be like?

46:6    那從囊中抓金子，用天平平銀子的人，僱銀匠製造神像，他們又俯伏，又叩拜。
They lavish gold out of the bag, and weigh silver in the balance, and hire a goldsmith; and he maketh it a god: they fall down, yea, they worship.

46:7    他們將神像抬起，扛在肩上，安置在定處，他就站立，不離本位，人呼求他，他不能答應，也不能救人脫離患難。
They bear him upon the shoulder, they carry him, and set him in his place, and he standeth; from his place shall he not remove: yea, one shall cry unto him, yet can he not answer, nor save him out of his trouble.

46:8    你們當想念這事，自己作大丈夫。悖逆的人哪，要心裡思想。
Remember this, and shew yourselves men: bring it again to mind, O ye transgressors.

46:9    你們要追念上古的事，因為我是神，並無別神，我是神，再沒有能比我的。
Remember the former things of old: for I am God, and there is none else; I am God, and there is none like me,

46:10    我從起初指明末後的事，從古時言明未成的事，說，我的籌算必立定，凡我所喜悅的，我必成就。
Declaring the end from the beginning, and from ancient times the things that are not yet done, saying, My counsel shall stand, and I will do all my pleasure:

46:11    我召鷙鳥從東方來，召那成就我籌算的人從遠方來。我已說出，也必成就，我已謀定，也必作成。
Calling a ravenous bird from the east, the man that executeth my counsel from a far country: yea, I have spoken it, I will also bring it to pass; I have purposed it, I will also do it.

46:12    你們這些心中頑梗，遠離公義的，當聽我言。
Hearken unto me, ye stouthearted, that are far from righteousness:

46:13    我使我的公義臨近，必不遠離，我的救恩必不遲延，我要為以色列我的榮耀，在錫安施行救恩。
I bring near my righteousness; it shall not be far off, and my salvation shall not tarry: and I will place salvation in Zion for Israel my glory.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 47 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


47:1    巴比倫的處女阿，下來坐在塵埃，迦勒底的閨女阿，沒有寶座，要坐在地上，因為你不再稱為柔弱嬌嫩的。
Come down, and sit in the dust, O virgin daughter of Babylon, sit on the ground: there is no throne, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called tender and delicate.

47:2    要用磨磨面。揭去帕子，脫去長衣，露腿趟河。
Take the millstones, and grind meal: uncover thy locks, make bare the leg, uncover the thigh, pass over the rivers.

47:3    你的下體必被露出，你的醜陋必被看見。我要報仇，誰也不寬容。
Thy nakedness shall be uncovered, yea, thy shame shall be seen: I will take vengeance, and I will not meet thee as a man.

47:4    我們救贖主的名是萬軍之耶和華以色列的聖者。
As for our redeemer, the LORD of hosts is his name, the Holy One of Israel.

47:5    迦勒底的閨女阿，你要默然靜坐，進入暗中，因為你不再稱為列國的主母。
Sit thou silent, and get thee into darkness, O daughter of the Chaldeans: for thou shalt no more be called, The lady of kingdoms.

47:6    我向我的百姓發怒，使我的產業被褻瀆，將他們交在你手中，你毫不憐憫他們，把極重的軛加在老年人身上。
I was wroth with my people, I have polluted mine inheritance, and given them into thine hand: thou didst shew them no mercy; upon the ancient hast thou very heavily laid thy yoke.

47:7    你自己說，我必永為主母，所以你不將這事放在心上，也不思想這事的結局。
And thou saidst, I shall be a lady for ever: so that thou didst not lay these things to thy heart, neither didst remember the latter end of it.

47:8    你這專好宴樂，安然居住的，現在當聽這話，你心中說，惟有我，除我以外再沒有別的，我必不至寡居，也不遭喪子之事。
Therefore hear now this, thou that art given to pleasures, that dwellest carelessly, that sayest in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me; I shall not sit as a widow, neither shall I know the loss of children:

47:9    那知喪子，寡居，這兩件事，在一日轉眼之間必臨到你，正在你多行邪術，廣施符咒的時候，這兩件事必全然臨到你身上。
But these two things shall come to thee in a moment in one day, the loss of children, and widowhood: they shall come upon thee in their perfection for the multitude of thy sorceries, and for the great abundance of thine enchantments.

47:10    你素來倚仗自己的惡行，說，無人看見我。你的智慧，聰明，使你偏邪，並且你心裡說，惟有我，除我以外再沒有別的。
For thou hast trusted in thy wickedness: thou hast said, None seeth me. Thy wisdom and thy knowledge, it hath perverted thee; and thou hast said in thine heart, I am, and none else beside me.

47:11    因此，禍患要臨到你身，你不知何時發現。（何時發現或作如何驅逐）災害落在你身上，你也不能除掉。所不知道的毀滅，也必忽然臨到你身。
Therefore shall evil come upon thee; thou shalt not know from whence it riseth: and mischief shall fall upon thee; thou shalt not be able to put it off: and desolation shall come upon thee suddenly, which thou shalt not know.

47:12    站起來吧，用你從幼年勞神施行的符咒，和你許多的邪術，或者可得益處，或者可得強勝。
Stand now with thine enchantments, and with the multitude of thy sorceries, wherein thou hast laboured from thy youth; if so be thou shalt be able to profit, if so be thou mayest prevail.

47:13    你籌畫太多，以致疲倦。讓那些觀天象的，看星宿的，在月朔說預言的，都站起來，救你脫離所要臨到你的事。
Thou art wearied in the multitude of thy counsels. Let now the astrologers, the stargazers, the monthly prognosticators, stand up, and save thee from these things that shall come upon thee.

47:14    他們要像碎秸被火焚燒，不能救自己脫離火焰之力，這火併非可烤的炭火，也不是可以坐在其前的火。
Behold, they shall be as stubble; the fire shall burn them; they shall not deliver themselves from the power of the flame: there shall not be a coal to warm at, nor fire to sit before it.

47:15    你所勞神的事，都要這樣與你無益。從幼年與你貿易的，也都各奔各鄉，無人救你。
Thus shall they be unto thee with whom thou hast laboured, even thy merchants, from thy youth: they shall wander every one to his quarter; none shall save thee.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 48 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


48:1    雅各家，稱為以色列名下，從猶大水源出來的，當聽我言。你們指著耶和華的名起誓，題說以色列的神，卻不憑誠實，不憑公義。
Hear ye this, O house of Jacob, which are called by the name of Israel, and are come forth out of the waters of Judah, which swear by the name of the LORD, and make mention of the God of Israel, but not in truth, nor in righteousness.

48:2    （他們自稱為聖城的人，所倚靠的是名為萬軍之耶和華以色列的神
For they call themselves of the holy city, and stay themselves upon the God of Israel; The LORD of hosts is his name.

48:3    主說，早先的事我從古時說明，已經出了我的口，也是我所指示的，我忽然行作，事便成就。
I have declared the former things from the beginning; and they went forth out of my mouth, and I shewed them; I did them suddenly, and they came to pass.

48:4    因為我素來知道你是頑梗的，你的頸項是鐵的，你的額是銅的，
Because I knew that thou art obstinate, and thy neck is an iron sinew, and thy brow brass;

48:5    所以我從古時將這事給你說明，在未成以先指示你，免得你說，這些事是我的偶像所行的，是我雕刻的偶像，和我鑄造的偶像所命定的。
I have even from the beginning declared it to thee; before it came to pass I shewed it thee: lest thou shouldest say, Mine idol hath done them, and my graven image, and my molten image, hath commanded them.

48:6    你已經聽見，現在要看見這一切，你不說明嗎，從今以後，我將新事就是你所不知道的隱密事，指示你。
Thou hast heard, see all this; and will not ye declare it? I have shewed thee new things from this time, even hidden things, and thou didst not know them.

48:7    這事是現今造的，並非從古就有，在今日以先，你也未曾聽見，免得你說，這事我早已知道了。
They are created now, and not from the beginning; even before the day when thou heardest them not; lest thou shouldest say, Behold, I knew them.

48:8    你未曾聽見，未曾知道，你的耳朵從來未曾開通。我原知道你行事極其詭詐，你自從出胎以來，便稱為悖逆的。
Yea, thou heardest not; yea, thou knewest not; yea, from that time that thine ear was not opened: for I knew that thou wouldest deal very treacherously, and wast called a transgressor from the womb.

48:9    我為我的名，暫且忍怒，為我的頌讚，向你容忍，不將你剪除。
For my name's sake will I defer mine anger, and for my praise will I refrain for thee, that I cut thee not off.

48:10    我熬鏈你，卻不像熬鏈銀子。你在苦難的爐中，我揀選你。
Behold, I have refined thee, but not with silver; I have chosen thee in the furnace of affliction.

48:11    我為自己的緣故必行這事，我焉能使我的名被褻瀆，我必不將我的榮耀歸給假神。
For mine own sake, even for mine own sake, will I do it: for how should my name be polluted? and I will not give my glory unto another.

48:12    雅各，我所選召的以色列阿，當聽我言。我是耶和華，我是首先的，也是末後的。
Hearken unto me, O Jacob and Israel, my called; I am he; I am the first, I also am the last.

48:13    我手立了地的根基，我右手鋪張諸天，我一招呼便都立住。
Mine hand also hath laid the foundation of the earth, and my right hand hath spanned the heavens: when I call unto them, they stand up together.

48:14    你們都當聚集而聽，他們（或作偶像）內中誰說過這些事。耶和華所愛的人，必向巴比倫行他所喜悅的事，他的膀臂也要加在迦勒底人身上。
All ye, assemble yourselves, and hear; which among them hath declared these things? The LORD hath loved him: he will do his pleasure on Babylon, and his arm shall be on the Chaldeans.

48:15    惟有我曾說過，我又選召他，領他來，他的道路就必亨通。
I, even I, have spoken; yea, I have called him: I have brought him, and he shall make his way prosperous.

48:16    你們要就近我來聽這話。我從起頭並未曾在隱密處說話，自從有這事，我就在那裡。現在主耶和華差遣我和他的靈來。（或作耶和華和他的靈差遣我來）
Come ye near unto me, hear ye this; I have not spoken in secret from the beginning; from the time that it was, there am I: and now the Lord GOD, and his Spirit, hath sent me.

48:17    耶和華你的救贖主，以色列的聖者如此說，我是耶和華你的神，教訓你使你得益處，引導你所當行的路。
Thus saith the LORD, thy Redeemer, the Holy One of Israel; I am the LORD thy God which teacheth thee to profit, which leadeth thee by the way that thou shouldest go.

48:18    甚願你素來聽從我的命令，你的平安就如河水，你的公義就如海浪。
O that thou hadst hearkened to my commandments! then had thy peace been as a river, and thy righteousness as the waves of the sea:

48:19    你的後裔也必多如海沙，你腹中所生的也必多如沙粒。他的名在我面前必不剪除，也不滅絕。
Thy seed also had been as the sand, and the offspring of thy bowels like the gravel thereof; his name should not have been cut off nor destroyed from before me.

48:20    你們要從巴比倫出來，從迦勒底人中逃脫，以歡呼的聲音傳揚說，耶和華救贖了他的僕人雅各，你們要將這事宣揚到地極。
Go ye forth of Babylon, flee ye from the Chaldeans, with a voice of singing declare ye, tell this, utter it even to the end of the earth; say ye, The LORD hath redeemed his servant Jacob.

48:21    耶和華引導他們，經過沙漠，他們並不乾渴，他為他們使水從磐石而流，分裂磐石水就湧出。
And they thirsted not when he led them through the deserts: he caused the waters to flow out of the rock for them: he clave the rock also, and the waters gushed out.

48:22    耶和華說，惡人必不得平安。
There is no peace, saith the LORD, unto the wicked.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 49 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


49:1    眾海島阿，當聽我言。遠方的眾民哪，留心而聽。自我出胎，耶和華就選召我，自出母腹，他就題我的名。
Listen, O isles, unto me; and hearken, ye people, from far; The LORD hath called me from the womb; from the bowels of my mother hath he made mention of my name.

49:2    他使我的口如快刀，將我藏在他手蔭之下。又使我成為磨亮的箭，將我藏在他的箭袋之中。
And he hath made my mouth like a sharp sword; in the shadow of his hand hath he hid me, and made me a polished shaft; in his quiver hath he hid me;

49:3    對我說，你是我的僕人以色列，我必因你得榮耀。
And said unto me, Thou art my servant, O Israel, in whom I will be glorified.

49:4    我卻說，我勞碌是徒然，我盡力是虛無虛空，然而我當得的理必在耶和華那裡，我的賞賜必在我的神那裡。
Then I said, I have laboured in vain, I have spent my strength for nought, and in vain: yet surely my judgment is with the LORD, and my work with my God.

49:5    耶和華從我出胎造就我作他的僕人，要使雅各歸向他，使以色列到他那裡聚集。（原來耶和華看我為尊貴，我的神也成為我的力量）
And now, saith the LORD that formed me from the womb to be his servant, to bring Jacob again to him, Though Israel be not gathered, yet shall I be glorious in the eyes of the LORD, and my God shall be my strength.

49:6    現在他說，你作我的僕人，使雅各眾支派復興，使以色列中得保全的歸回，尚為小事，我還要使你作外邦人的光，叫你施行我的救恩，直到地極。
And he said, It is a light thing that thou shouldest be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob, and to restore the preserved of Israel: I will also give thee for a light to the Gentiles, that thou mayest be my salvation unto the end of the earth.

49:7    救贖主以色列的聖者耶和華，對那被人所藐視，本國所憎惡，官長所虐待的，如此說，君王要看見就站起，首領也要下拜，都因信實的耶和華，就是揀選你以色列的聖者。
Thus saith the LORD, the Redeemer of Israel, and his Holy One, to him whom man despiseth, to him whom the nation abhorreth, to a servant of rulers, Kings shall see and arise, princes also shall worship, because of the LORD that is faithful, and the Holy One of Israel, and he shall choose thee.

49:8    耶和華如此說，在悅納的時候我應允了你，在拯救的日子我濟助了你，我要保護你，使你作眾民的中保，（中保原文作約）復興遍地，使人承受荒涼之地為業。
Thus saith the LORD, In an acceptable time have I heard thee, and in a day of salvation have I helped thee: and I will preserve thee, and give thee for a covenant of the people, to establish the earth, to cause to inherit the desolate heritages;

49:9    對那被捆綁的人說，出來吧。對那在黑暗的人說，顯露吧。他們在路上必得飲食，在一切淨光的高處必有食物。
That thou mayest say to the prisoners, Go forth; to them that are in darkness, Shew yourselves. They shall feed in the ways, and their pastures shall be in all high places.

49:10    不飢不渴，炎熱和烈日必不傷害他們，因為憐恤他們的，必引導他們，領他們到水泉旁邊。
They shall not hunger nor thirst; neither shall the heat nor sun smite them: for he that hath mercy on them shall lead them, even by the springs of water shall he guide them.

49:11    我必使我的眾山成為大道，我的大路也被修高。
And I will make all my mountains a way, and my highways shall be exalted.

49:12    看哪，這些從遠方來，這些從北方，從西方來，這些從秦國來。（秦原文作希尼）
Behold, these shall come from far: and, lo, these from the north and from the west; and these from the land of Sinim.

49:13    諸天哪，應當歡呼。大地阿，應當快樂。眾山哪，應當發聲歌唱。因為耶和華已經安慰他的百姓，也要憐恤他困苦之民。
Sing, O heavens; and be joyful, O earth; and break forth into singing, O mountains: for the LORD hath comforted his people, and will have mercy upon his afflicted.

49:14    錫安說，耶和華離棄了我，主忘記了我。
But Zion said, The LORD hath forsaken me, and my Lord hath forgotten me.

49:15    婦人焉能忘記他吃奶的嬰孩，不憐恤他所生的兒子。即或有忘記的，我卻不忘記你。
Can a woman forget her sucking child, that she should not have compassion on the son of her womb? yea, they may forget, yet will I not forget thee.

49:16    看哪，我將你銘刻在我掌上，你的牆垣常在我眼前。
Behold, I have graven thee upon the palms of my hands; thy walls are continually before me.

49:17    你的兒女必急速歸回，毀壞你的，使你荒廢的，必都離你出去。
Thy children shall make haste; thy destroyers and they that made thee waste shall go forth of thee.

49:18    你舉目向四方觀看，他們都聚集來到你這裡。耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，你必要以他們為妝飾佩戴，以他們為華帶束腰，像新婦一樣。
Lift up thine eyes round about, and behold: all these gather themselves together, and come to thee. As I live, saith the LORD, thou shalt surely clothe thee with them all, as with an ornament, and bind them on thee, as a bride doeth.

49:19    至於你荒廢淒涼之處，並你被毀壞之地，現今眾民居住必顯為太窄。吞滅你的必離你遙遠。
For thy waste and thy desolate places, and the land of thy destruction, shall even now be too narrow by reason of the inhabitants, and they that swallowed thee up shall be far away.

49:20    你必聽見喪子之後所生的兒女說，這地方我居住太窄，求你給我地方居住。
The children which thou shalt have, after thou hast lost the other, shall say again in thine ears, The place is too strait for me: give place to me that I may dwell.

49:21    那時你心裡必說，我既喪子獨居，是被擄的，漂流在外，誰給我生這些，誰將這些養大呢。撇下我一人獨居的時候，這些在那裡呢。
Then shalt thou say in thine heart, Who hath begotten me these, seeing I have lost my children, and am desolate, a captive, and removing to and fro? and who hath brought up these? Behold, I was left alone; these, where had they been?

49:22    主耶和華如此說，我必向列國舉手，向萬民豎立大旗，他們必將你的眾子懷中抱來，將你的眾女肩上扛來。
Thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, I will lift up mine hand to the Gentiles, and set up my standard to the people: and they shall bring thy sons in their arms, and thy daughters shall be carried upon their shoulders.

49:23    列王必作你的養父，王后必做你的乳母。他們必將臉伏地，向你下拜，並舔你腳上的塵土。你便知道我是耶和華，等候我的必不至羞愧。
And kings shall be thy nursing fathers, and their queens thy nursing mothers: they shall bow down to thee with their face toward the earth, and lick up the dust of thy feet; and thou shalt know that I am the LORD: for they shall not be ashamed that wait for me.

49:24    勇士搶去的豈能奪回，該擄掠的豈能解救嗎。
Shall the prey be taken from the mighty, or the lawful captive delivered?

49:25    但耶和華如此說，就是勇士所擄掠的，也可以奪回，強暴人所搶的，也可以解救，與你相爭的我必與他相爭，我要拯救你的兒女。
But thus saith the LORD, Even the captives of the mighty shall be taken away, and the prey of the terrible shall be delivered: for I will contend with him that contendeth with thee, and I will save thy children.

49:26    並且我必使那欺壓你的吃自己的肉，也要以自己的血喝醉，好像喝甜酒一樣。凡有血氣的，必都知道我耶和華是你的救主，是你的救贖主，是雅各的大能者。
And I will feed them that oppress thee with their own flesh; and they shall be drunken with their own blood, as with sweet wine: and all flesh shall know that I the LORD am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 50 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


50:1    耶和華如此說，我休你們的母親，休書在那裡呢。我將你們賣給我那一個債主呢。你們被賣，是因你們的罪孽。你們的母親被休，是因你們的過犯。
Thus saith the LORD, Where is the bill of your mother's divorcement, whom I have put away? or which of my creditors is it to whom I have sold you? Behold, for your iniquities have ye sold yourselves, and for your transgressions is your mother put away.

50:2    我來的時候，為何無人等候呢。我呼喚的時候，為何無人答應呢。我的膀臂豈是縮短，不能救贖嗎。我豈無拯救之力嗎。看哪，我一斥責，海就乾了，我使江河變為曠野。其中的魚因無水腥臭，乾渴而死。
Wherefore, when I came, was there no man? when I called, was there none to answer? Is my hand shortened at all, that it cannot redeem? or have I no power to deliver? behold, at my rebuke I dry up the sea, I make the rivers a wilderness: their fish stinketh, because there is no water, and dieth for thirst.

50:3    我使諸天以黑暗為衣服，以麻布為遮蓋。
I clothe the heavens with blackness, and I make sackcloth their covering.

50:4    主耶和華賜我受教者的舌頭，使我知道怎樣用言語扶助疲乏的人。主每早晨題醒，題醒我的耳朵，使我能聽，像受教者一樣。
The Lord GOD hath given me the tongue of the learned, that I should know how to speak a word in season to him that is weary: he wakeneth morning by morning, he wakeneth mine ear to hear as the learned.

50:5    主耶和華開通我的耳朵，我並沒有違背，也沒有退後。
The Lord GOD hath opened mine ear, and I was not rebellious, neither turned away back.

50:6    人打我的背，我任他打。人拔我腮頰的鬍鬚，我由他拔。人辱我吐我，我並不掩面。
I gave my back to the smiters, and my cheeks to them that plucked off the hair: I hid not my face from shame and spitting.

50:7    主耶和華必幫助我，所以我不抱愧。我硬著臉面好像堅石，我也知道我必不至蒙羞。
For the Lord GOD will help me; therefore shall I not be confounded: therefore have I set my face like a flint, and I know that I shall not be ashamed.

50:8    稱我為義的與我相近。誰與我爭論，可以與我一同站立。誰與我作對，可以就近我來。
He is near that justifieth me; who will contend with me? let us stand together: who is mine adversary? let him come near to me.

50:9    主耶和華要幫助我。誰能定我有罪呢。他們都像衣服漸漸舊了，為蛀蟲所咬。
Behold, the Lord GOD will help me; who is he that shall condemn me? lo, they all shall wax old as a garment; the moth shall eat them up.

50:10    你們中間誰是敬畏耶和華聽從他僕人之話的。這人行在暗中，沒有亮光，當倚靠耶和華的名，仗賴自己的神。
Who is among you that feareth the LORD, that obeyeth the voice of his servant, that walketh in darkness, and hath no light? let him trust in the name of the LORD, and stay upon his God.

50:11    凡你們點火用火把圍繞自己的。可以行在你們的火焰裡，並你們所點的火把中。這是我手所定的。你們必躺在悲慘之中。
Behold, all ye that kindle a fire, that compass yourselves about with sparks: walk in the light of your fire, and in the sparks that ye have kindled. This shall ye have of mine hand; ye shall lie down in sorrow.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 51 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


51:1    你們這追求公義尋求耶和華的，當聽我言。你們要追想被鑿而出的磐石，被挖而出的嚴穴。
Hearken to me, ye that follow after righteousness, ye that seek the LORD: look unto the rock whence ye are hewn, and to the hole of the pit whence ye are digged.

51:2    要追想你們的祖宗亞伯拉罕，和生養你們的撒拉。因為亞伯拉罕獨自一人的時候，我選召他，賜福與他，使他人數增多。
Look unto Abraham your father, and unto Sarah that bare you: for I called him alone, and blessed him, and increased him.

51:3    耶和華已經安慰錫安，和錫安一切的荒場，使曠野像伊甸，使沙漠像耶和華的園囿。在其中必有歡喜，快樂，感謝和歌唱的聲音。
For the LORD shall comfort Zion: he will comfort all her waste places; and he will make her wilderness like Eden, and her desert like the garden of the LORD; joy and gladness shall be found therein, thanksgiving, and the voice of melody.

51:4    我的百姓阿，要向我留心。我的國民哪，要向我側耳。因為訓誨必從我而出，我必堅定我的公理為萬民之光。
Hearken unto me, my people; and give ear unto me, O my nation: for a law shall proceed from me, and I will make my judgment to rest for a light of the people.

51:5    我的公義臨近，我的救恩發出，我的膀臂要審判萬民。海島都要等候我，倚賴我的膀臂。
My righteousness is near; my salvation is gone forth, and mine arms shall judge the people; the isles shall wait upon me, and on mine arm shall they trust.

51:6    你們要向天舉目，觀看下地。因為天必像煙雲消散，地必如衣服漸漸舊了。其上的居民，也要如此死亡。（如此死亡或作像蠓蟲死亡）惟有我的救恩永遠長存，我的公義也不廢掉。
Lift up your eyes to the heavens, and look upon the earth beneath: for the heavens shall vanish away like smoke, and the earth shall wax old like a garment, and they that dwell therein shall die in like manner: but my salvation shall be for ever, and my righteousness shall not be abolished.

51:7    知道公義，將我訓誨存在心中的民，要聽我言不要怕人的辱罵，也不要因人的毀謗驚惶。
Hearken unto me, ye that know righteousness, the people in whose heart is my law; fear ye not the reproach of men, neither be ye afraid of their revilings.

51:8    因為蛀蟲必咬他們，好像咬衣服，蟲子必咬他們，如同咬羊絨。惟有我的公義永遠長存，我的救恩直到萬代。
For the moth shall eat them up like a garment, and the worm shall eat them like wool: but my righteousness shall be for ever, and my salvation from generation to generation.

51:9    耶和華的膀臂阿，興起，興起，以能力為衣穿上，像古時的年日，上古的世代興起一樣。從前砍碎拉哈伯，刺透大魚的，不是你嗎。
Awake, awake, put on strength, O arm of the LORD; awake, as in the ancient days, in the generations of old. Art thou not it that hath cut Rahab, and wounded the dragon?

51:10    使海與深淵的水乾涸，使海的深處變為贖民經過之路的，不是你嗎。
Art thou not it which hath dried the sea, the waters of the great deep; that hath made the depths of the sea a way for the ransomed to pass over?

51:11    耶和華救贖的民必歸回，歌唱來到錫安。永樂必歸到他們頭上，他們必得著歡喜快樂，憂愁嘆息盡都逃避。
Therefore the redeemed of the LORD shall return, and come with singing unto Zion; and everlasting joy shall be upon their head: they shall obtain gladness and joy; and sorrow and mourning shall flee away.

51:12    惟有我，是安慰你們的。你是誰，竟怕那必死的人，怕那要變如草的世人。
I, even I, am he that comforteth you: who art thou, that thou shouldest be afraid of a man that shall die, and of the son of man which shall be made as grass;

51:13    卻忘記鋪張諸天，立定地基，創造你的耶和華。又因欺壓者圖謀毀滅要發的暴怒，整天害怕。其實那欺壓者的暴怒在那裡呢。
And forgettest the LORD thy maker, that hath stretched forth the heavens, and laid the foundations of the earth; and hast feared continually every day because of the fury of the oppressor, as if he were ready to destroy? and where is the fury of the oppressor?

51:14    被擄去的快得釋放，必不死而下坑。他的食物，也不致缺乏。
The captive exile hasteneth that he may be loosed, and that he should not die in the pit, nor that his bread should fail.

51:15    我是耶和華你的神，攪動大海，使海中的波浪？？訇。萬軍之耶和華是我的名。
But I am the LORD thy God, that divided the sea, whose waves roared: The LORD of hosts is his name.

51:16    我將我的話傳給你，用我的手影哨蔽你，為要栽定諸天，立定地基。又對錫安說，你是我的百姓。
And I have put my words in thy mouth, and I have covered thee in the shadow of mine hand, that I may plant the heavens, and lay the foundations of the earth, and say unto Zion, Thou art my people.

51:17    耶路撒冷阿，興起，興起，站起來。你從耶和華手中喝了他忿怒之杯，喝了那使人東倒西歪的爵，以至喝盡。
Awake, awake, stand up, O Jerusalem, which hast drunk at the hand of the LORD the cup of his fury; thou hast drunken the dregs of the cup of trembling, and wrung them out.

51:18    他所生育的諸子中沒有一個引導他的。他所養大的諸子中沒有一個攙扶他的。
There is none to guide her among all the sons whom she hath brought forth; neither is there any that taketh her by the hand of all the sons that she hath brought up.

51:19    荒涼，毀滅，饑荒，刀兵，這幾樣臨到你，誰為你舉哀。我如何能安慰你呢。
These two things are come unto thee; who shall be sorry for thee? desolation, and destruction, and the famine, and the sword: by whom shall I comfort thee?

51:20    你的眾子發昏，在各市口上躺臥，好像黃羊在網羅之中。都滿了耶和華的忿怒，你神的斥責。
Thy sons have fainted, they lie at the head of all the streets, as a wild bull in a net: they are full of the fury of the LORD, the rebuke of thy God.

51:21    因此，你這困苦卻非因酒而醉的，要聽我言。
Therefore hear now this, thou afflicted, and drunken, but not with wine:

51:22    你的主耶和華，就是為他百姓辨屈的神，如此說，看哪，我已將那使人東倒西歪的杯，就是我忿怒的爵，從你手中接過來。你必不至再喝。
Thus saith thy Lord the LORD, and thy God that pleadeth the cause of his people, Behold, I have taken out of thine hand the cup of trembling, even the dregs of the cup of my fury; thou shalt no more drink it again:

51:23    我必將這杯，遞在苦待你的人手中。他們曾對你說，你屈身，由我們踐踏過去吧。你便以背為地，好像街市，任人經過。
But I will put it into the hand of them that afflict thee; which have said to thy soul, Bow down, that we may go over: and thou hast laid thy body as the ground, and as the street, to them that went over.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 52 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


52:1    錫安哪，興起，興起，披上你的能力。聖城耶路撒冷阿，穿上你華美的衣服。因為從今以後，未受割禮不潔淨的，必不再進入你中間。
Awake, awake; put on thy strength, O Zion; put on thy beautiful garments, O Jerusalem, the holy city: for henceforth there shall no more come into thee the uncircumcised and the unclean.

52:2    耶路撒冷阿，要抖下塵土。起來坐在位上。錫安被擄的居民哪，（居民原文作女子）要解開你頸項的鎖鏈。
Shake thyself from the dust; arise, and sit down, O Jerusalem: loose thyself from the bands of thy neck, O captive daughter of Zion.

52:3    耶和華如此說，你們是無價被賣的，也必無銀被贖。
For thus saith the LORD, Ye have sold yourselves for nought; and ye shall be redeemed without money.

52:4    主耶和華如此說，起先我的百姓下到埃及，在那裡寄居，又有亞述人無故欺壓他們。
For thus saith the Lord GOD, My people went down aforetime into Egypt to sojourn there; and the Assyrian oppressed them without cause.

52:5    耶和華說，我的百姓既是無價被擄去，如今我在這裡作什麼呢。耶和華說，轄制他們的人呼叫，我的名整天受褻瀆
Now therefore, what have I here, saith the LORD, that my people is taken away for nought? they that rule over them make them to howl, saith the LORD; and my name continually every day is blasphemed.



52:6    所以我的百姓必知道我的名。到那日他們必知道說這話的就是我，看哪，是我。
Therefore my people shall know my name: therefore they shall know in that day that I am he that doth speak: behold, it is I.

52:7    那報佳音，傳平安，報好信，傳救恩的，對錫安說，你的神作王了。這人的腳登山何等佳美。
How beautiful upon the mountains are the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace; that bringeth good tidings of good, that publisheth salvation; that saith unto Zion, Thy God reigneth!

52:8    聽阿，你守望之人的聲音。他們揚起聲來，一同歌唱。因為耶和華歸回錫安的時候，他們必親眼看見。
Thy watchmen shall lift up the voice; with the voice together shall they sing: for they shall see eye to eye, when the LORD shall bring again Zion.

52:9    耶路撒冷的荒場阿，要發起歡聲，一同歌唱。因為耶和華安慰了他的百姓。救贖了耶路撒冷。
Break forth into joy, sing together, ye waste places of Jerusalem: for the LORD hath comforted his people, he hath redeemed Jerusalem.

52:10    耶和華在萬國眼前露出聖臂。地極的人都看見我們神的救恩了。
The LORD hath made bare his holy arm in the eyes of all the nations; and all the ends of the earth shall see the salvation of our God.

52:11    你們離開吧，離開吧，從巴比倫出來，不要沾不潔淨的物。要從其中出來。你們扛抬耶和華器皿的人哪，務要自潔。
Depart ye, depart ye, go ye out from thence, touch no unclean thing; go ye out of the midst of her; be ye clean, that bear the vessels of the LORD.

52:12    你們出來必不至急忙，也不至奔逃。因為耶和華必在你們前頭行。以色列的神必作你們的後盾。
For ye shall not go out with haste, nor go by flight: for the LORD will go before you; and the God of Israel will be your rereward.

52:13    我的僕人行事必有智慧，（或作行事通達）必被高舉上升，且成為至高。
Behold, my servant shall deal prudently, he shall be exalted and extolled, and be very high.

52:14    許多人因他（原文作你）驚奇，（他的面貌比別人憔悴，他的形容比世人枯槁）
As many were astonied at thee; his visage was so marred more than any man, and his form more than the sons of men:

52:15    這樣，他必洗淨（或作鼓勵）許多國民。君王要向他閉口。因所未曾傳與他們的，他們必看見。未曾聽見的，他們要明白。
So shall he sprinkle many nations; the kings shall shut their mouths at him: for that which had not been told them shall they see; and that which they had not heard shall they consider.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 53 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


53:1    我們所傳的，（或作所傳與我們的）有誰信呢。耶和華的膀臂向誰顯露呢。
Who hath believed our report? and to whom is the arm of the LORD revealed?

53:2    他在耶和華面前生長如嫩芽，像根出於乾地。他無佳形美容，我們看見他的時候，也無美貌使我們羨慕他。
For he shall grow up before him as a tender plant, and as a root out of a dry ground: he hath no form nor comeliness; and when we shall see him, there is no beauty that we should desire him.

53:3    他被藐視，被人厭棄，多受痛苦，常經憂患。他被藐視，　　　　　　好像被人掩面不看的一樣。我們也不尊重他。
He is despised and rejected of men; a man of sorrows, and acquainted with grief: and we hid as it were our faces from him; he was despised, and we esteemed him not.

53:4    他誠然擔當我們的憂患，揹負我們的痛苦。我們卻以為他受責罰，被神擊打苦待了。
Surely he hath borne our griefs, and carried our sorrows: yet we did esteem him stricken, smitten of God, and afflicted.

53:5    那知他為我們的過犯受害，為我們的罪孽壓傷。因他受的刑罰我們得平安。因他受的鞭傷我們得醫治。
But he was wounded for our transgressions, he was bruised for our iniquities: the chastisement of our peace was upon him; and with his stripes we are healed.

53:6    我們都如羊走迷，各人偏行己路。耶和華使我們眾人的罪孽都歸在他身上。
All we like sheep have gone astray; we have turned every one to his own way; and the LORD hath laid on him the iniquity of us all.

53:7    他被欺壓，在受苦的時候卻不開口。（或作他受欺壓卻自卑不開口）他像羊羔被牽到宰殺之地，又像羊在剪毛的人手下無聲，他也是這樣不開口。
He was oppressed, and he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth: he is brought as a lamb to the slaughter, and as a sheep before her shearers is dumb, so he openeth not his mouth.

53:8    因受欺壓和審判他被奪去。至於他同世的人，誰想他受鞭打，從活人之地被剪除，是因我百姓的罪過呢。
He was taken from prison and from judgment: and who shall declare his generation? for he was cut off out of the land of the living: for the transgression of my people was he stricken.

53:9    他雖然未行強暴，口中也沒有詭詐，人還使他與惡人同埋。誰知死的時候與財主同葬。
And he made his grave with the wicked, and with the rich in his death; because he had done no violence, neither was any deceit in his mouth.

53:10    耶和華卻定意（或作喜悅）將他壓傷，使他受痛苦。耶和華以他為贖罪祭。（或作他獻本身為贖罪祭）他必看見後裔，並且延長年日，耶和華所喜悅的事，必在他手中亨通。
Yet it pleased the LORD to bruise him; he hath put him to grief: when thou shalt make his soul an offering for sin, he shall see his seed, he shall prolong his days, and the pleasure of the LORD shall prosper in his hand.

53:11    他必看見自己勞苦的功效，便心滿意足。有許多人，因認識我的義僕得稱為義。並且他要擔當他們的罪孽。
He shall see of the travail of his soul, and shall be satisfied: by his knowledge shall my righteous servant justify many; for he shall bear their iniquities.

53:12    所以我要使他與位大的同分，與強盛的均分擄物。因為他將命傾倒，以致於死。他也被列在罪犯之中。他卻擔當多人的罪，又為罪犯代求。
Therefore will I divide him a portion with the great, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong; because he hath poured out his soul unto death: and he was numbered with the transgressors; and he bare the sin of many, and made intercession for the transgressors.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 54 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


54:1    你這不懷孕不生養的，要歌唱。你這未曾經過產難的，要發聲歌唱，揚聲歡呼。因為沒有丈夫的，比有丈夫的兒女更多。這是耶和華說的。
Sing, O barren, thou that didst not bear; break forth into singing, and cry aloud, thou that didst not travail with child: for more are the children of the desolate than the children of the married wife, saith the LORD.

54:2    要擴張你帳幕之地，張大你居所的幔子，不要限止，要放長你的繩子，堅固你的橛子。
Enlarge the place of thy tent, and let them stretch forth the curtains of thine habitations: spare not, lengthen thy cords, and strengthen thy stakes;

54:3    因為你要向左向右開展。你的後裔必得多國為業，又使荒涼的城邑有人居住。
For thou shalt break forth on the right hand and on the left; and thy seed shall inherit the Gentiles, and make the desolate cities to be inhabited.

54:4    不要懼怕，因你必不致蒙羞。也不要抱愧，因你必不至受辱。你必忘記幼年的羞愧，不再記念你寡居的羞辱。
Fear not; for thou shalt not be ashamed: neither be thou confounded; for thou shalt not be put to shame: for thou shalt forget the shame of thy youth, and shalt not remember the reproach of thy widowhood any more.

54:5    因為造你的，是你的丈夫。萬軍之耶和華是他的名。救贖你的，是以色列的聖者。他必稱為全地之神。
For thy Maker is thine husband; the LORD of hosts is his name; and thy Redeemer the Holy One of Israel; The God of the whole earth shall he be called.

54:6    耶和華召你，如召被離棄心中憂傷的妻，就是幼年所娶被棄的妻。這是你神所說的。
For the LORD hath called thee as a woman forsaken and grieved in spirit, and a wife of youth, when thou wast refused, saith thy God.

54:7    我離棄你不過片時，卻要施大恩將你收回。
For a small moment have I forsaken thee; but with great mercies will I gather thee.

54:8    我的怒氣漲溢，頃刻之間向你掩面，卻要以永遠的慈愛憐恤你。這是耶和華你的救贖主說的。
In a little wrath I hid my face from thee for a moment; but with everlasting kindness will I have mercy on thee, saith the LORD thy Redeemer.

54:9    這事在我好像挪亞的洪水。我怎樣起誓不再使挪亞的洪水漫過遍地，我也照樣起誓不再向你發怒，也不斥責你。
For this is as the waters of Noah unto me: for as I have sworn that the waters of Noah should no more go over the earth; so have I sworn that I would not be wroth with thee, nor rebuke thee.

54:10    大山可以挪開，小山可以遷移。但我的慈愛必不離開你，我平安的約也不遷移。這是憐恤你的耶和華說的。
For the mountains shall depart, and the hills be removed; but my kindness shall not depart from thee, neither shall the covenant of my peace be removed, saith the LORD that hath mercy on thee.

54:11    你這受困苦被風飄蕩不得安慰的人哪，我必以彩色安置你的石頭，以藍寶石立定你的根基。
O thou afflicted, tossed with tempest, and not comforted, behold, I will lay thy stones with fair colours, and lay thy foundations with sapphires.

54:12    又以紅寶石造你的女牆，以紅玉造你的城門，以寶石造你四圍的邊界。（或作外郭）
And I will make thy windows of agates, and thy gates of carbuncles, and all thy borders of pleasant stones.

54:13    你的兒女都要受耶和華的教訓。你的兒女必大享平安。
And all thy children shall be taught of the LORD; and great shall be the peace of thy children.

54:14    你必因公義得堅立。必遠離欺壓，不至害怕。你必遠離驚嚇，驚嚇必不臨近你。
In righteousness shalt thou be established: thou shalt be far from oppression; for thou shalt not fear: and from terror; for it shall not come near thee.

54:15    即或有人聚集，卻不由於我。凡聚集攻擊你的，必因你仆倒。（因你仆倒或作投降你）
Behold, they shall surely gather together, but not by me: whosoever shall gather together against thee shall fall for thy sake.

54:16    吹噓炭打，打造合用器械的鐵匠，是我所造。殘害人行毀滅的，也是我所造。
Behold, I have created the smith that bloweth the coals in the fire, and that bringeth forth an instrument for his work; and I have created the waster to destroy.

54:17    凡為攻擊你造成的器械，必不利用。凡在審判時興起用舌攻擊你的，你必定為他有罪。這是耶和華僕人的產業，是他們從我所得的義。這是耶和華說的。
No weapon that is formed against thee shall prosper; and every tongue that shall rise against thee in judgment thou shalt condemn. This is the heritage of the servants of the LORD, and their righteousness is of me, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 55 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


55:1    你們一切乾渴的都當近水來。沒有銀錢的也可以來。你們都來，買了吃。不用銀錢，不用價值，也來買酒和奶。
Ho, every one that thirsteth, come ye to the waters, and he that hath no money; come ye, buy, and eat; yea, come, buy wine and milk without money and without price.

55:2    你們為何花錢（原文作平銀）買那不足為食物的，用勞碌的買那不使人飽足的呢。你們要留意聽我的話，就能吃那美物，得享肥甘，心中喜樂。
Wherefore do ye spend money for that which is not bread? and your labour for that which satisfieth not? hearken diligently unto me, and eat ye that which is good, and let your soul delight itself in fatness.

55:3    你們就當近我來。側耳而聽，就必得活。我必與你們立永約，就是應許大衛那可靠的恩典。
Incline your ear, and come unto me: hear, and your soul shall live; and I will make an everlasting covenant with you, even the sure mercies of David.

55:4    我已立他作萬民的見證，為萬民的君王和司令。
Behold, I have given him for a witness to the people, a leader and commander to the people.

55:5    你素不認識的國民，你也必召來。素來不認識你的國民，也必向你奔跑，都因耶和華你的神以色列的聖者。因為他已經榮耀你。
Behold, thou shalt call a nation that thou knowest not, and nations that knew not thee shall run unto thee because of the LORD thy God, and for the Holy One of Israel; for he hath glorified thee.

55:6    當趁耶和華可尋梢的時候尋梢他，相近的時候求告他。
Seek ye the LORD while he may be found, call ye upon him while he is near:

55:7    惡人當離棄自己的道路。不義的人當除去自己的意念，歸向耶和華，耶和華就必憐恤他，當歸向我們的神，因為神必廣行赦免。
Let the wicked forsake his way, and the unrighteous man his thoughts: and let him return unto the LORD, and he will have mercy upon him; and to our God, for he will abundantly pardon.

55:8    耶和華說，我的意念，非同你們的意念，我的道路，非同你們的道路。
For my thoughts are not your thoughts, neither are your ways my ways, saith the LORD.

55:9    天怎樣高過地，照樣我的道路，高過你們的道路，我的意念，高過你們的意念。
For as the heavens are higher than the earth, so are my ways higher than your ways, and my thoughts than your thoughts.

55:10    雨雪從天而降，並不返回，卻滋潤地土，使地上發芽結實，使撒種的有種，使要吃的有糧。
For as the rain cometh down, and the snow from heaven, and returneth not thither, but watereth the earth, and maketh it bring forth and bud, that it may give seed to the sower, and bread to the eater:

55:11    我口所出的話，也必如此，決不徒然返回，卻要成就我所喜悅的，在我發他去成就的事上（發他去成就或作所命定）必然亨通。
So shall my word be that goeth forth out of my mouth: it shall not return unto me void, but it shall accomplish that which I please, and it shall prosper in the thing whereto I sent it.

55:12    你們必歡歡喜喜而出來，平平安安蒙引導。大山小山必在你們面前發聲歌唱。田野的樹木也都拍掌。
For ye shall go out with joy, and be led forth with peace: the mountains and the hills shall break forth before you into singing, and all the trees of the field shall clap their hands.

55:13    松樹長出代替荊棘。番石榴長出代替蒺藜。這要為耶和華留名，作為永遠的證據，不能剪除。
Instead of the thorn shall come up the fir tree, and instead of the brier shall come up the myrtle tree: and it shall be to the LORD for a name, for an everlasting sign that shall not be cut off.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 56 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


56:1    耶和華如此說的，你們當守公平，行公義。因我的救恩臨近，我的公義將要顯現。
Thus saith the LORD, Keep ye judgment, and do justice: for my salvation is near to come, and my righteousness to be revealed.

56:2    謹守安息日而不干犯，禁止己手而不作惡。如此行，如此持守的人，賽56：02）便為有福。
Blessed is the man that doeth this, and the son of man that layeth hold on it; that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and keepeth his hand from doing any evil.

56:3    與耶和華聯合的外邦人不要說，耶和華必定將我從他民中分別出來。太監也不要說，我是枯樹。
Neither let the son of the stranger, that hath joined himself to the LORD, speak, saying, The LORD hath utterly separated me from his people: neither let the eunuch say, Behold, I am a dry tree.

56:4    因為耶和華如此說，那些謹守我的安息日，揀選我所喜悅的事，持守我約的太監。
For thus saith the LORD unto the eunuchs that keep my sabbaths, and choose the things that please me, and take hold of my covenant;

56:5    我必使他們在我殿中，在我牆內，有記念，有名號，比有兒女的更美。我必賜他們永遠的名，不能剪除。
Even unto them will I give in mine house and within my walls a place and a name better than of sons and of daughters: I will give them an everlasting name, that shall not be cut off.

56:6    還有那些與耶和華聯合的外邦人，要事奉他，要愛耶和華的名，要作他的僕人，就是凡守安息日不干犯，又持守他（原文作我）約的人。
Also the sons of the stranger, that join themselves to the LORD, to serve him, and to love the name of the LORD, to be his servants, every one that keepeth the sabbath from polluting it, and taketh hold of my covenant;

56:7    我必領他們到我的聖山，使他們在禱告我的殿中喜樂。他們的燔祭，和平安祭，在我壇上必蒙悅納。因我的殿必稱為萬民禱告的殿。
Even them will I bring to my holy mountain, and make them joyful in my house of prayer: their burnt offerings and their sacrifices shall be accepted upon mine altar; for mine house shall be called an house of prayer for all people.

56:8    主耶和華，就是招聚以色列被趕散的，說，在這被招聚的人以外，我還要招聚別人歸併他們。
The Lord GOD, which gathereth the outcasts of Israel saith, Yet will I gather others to him, beside those that are gathered unto him.

56:9    田野的諸獸，都來吞吃吧。林中的諸獸，也要如此。
All ye beasts of the field, come to devour, yea, all ye beasts in the forest.



56:10    他看守的人是瞎眼的，都沒有知識，都是啞吧狗，不能叫喚。但知作夢，躺臥，貪睡。
His watchmen are blind: they are all ignorant, they are all dumb dogs, they cannot bark; sleeping, lying down, loving to slumber.

56:11    這些狗貪食，不知飽足。這些牧人不能明白，各人偏行己路，各從各方求自己的利益。
Yea, they are greedy dogs which can never have enough, and they are shepherds that cannot understand: they all look to their own way, every one for his gain, from his quarter.

56:12    他們說，來吧，我去拿酒，我們飽飲濃酒。明日必和今日一樣，就是宴樂無量極大之日。
Come ye, say they, I will fetch wine, and we will fill ourselves with strong drink; and to morrow shall be as this day, and much more abundant.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 57 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


57:1    義人死亡，無人放在心上。虔誠人被收去，無人思念。這義人被收去是免了將來的禍患。
The righteous perisheth, and no man layeth it to heart: and merciful men are taken away, none considering that the righteous is taken away from the evil to come.

57:2    他們得享（原文作進入）平安，素行正直的人，各人在墳裡（原文作床上）安歇。
He shall enter into peace: they shall rest in their beds, each one walking in his uprightness.

57:3    你們這些巫婆的兒子，姦夫和妓女的種子，都要前來。
But draw near hither, ye sons of the sorceress, the seed of the adulterer and the whore.

57:4    你們向誰戲笑，向誰張口吐舌呢。你們豈不是悖逆的兒女，虛謊的種類呢。
Against whom do ye sport yourselves? against whom make ye a wide mouth, and draw out the tongue? are ye not children of transgression, a seed of falsehood,

57:5    你們在橡樹中間，在各青翠樹下慾火攻心。在山谷間，在石穴下殺了兒女。
Enflaming yourselves with idols under every green tree, slaying the children in the valleys under the clifts of the rocks?

57:6    在谷中光滑石頭裡有你的分。這些就是你所得的分。你也向他澆了奠祭，獻了供物。因這事我豈能容忍嗎。
Among the smooth stones of the stream is thy portion; they, they are thy lot: even to them hast thou poured a drink offering, thou hast offered a meat offering. Should I receive comfort in these?

57:7    你在高而又高的山上安設床榻，也上那裡去獻祭。
Upon a lofty and high mountain hast thou set thy bed: even thither wentest thou up to offer sacrifice.

57:8    你在門後，在門框後，立起你的記念，向外人赤露。又上去擴張床榻，與他們立約。你在那裡看見他們的床，就甚喜愛。
Behind the doors also and the posts hast thou set up thy remembrance: for thou hast discovered thyself to another than me, and art gone up; thou hast enlarged thy bed, and made thee a covenant with them; thou lovedst their bed where thou sawest it.

57:9    你把油帶到王那裡，又多加香料，打發使者往遠方去，自卑自賤直到陰間。
And thou wentest to the king with ointment, and didst increase thy perfumes, and didst send thy messengers far off, and didst debase thyself even unto hell.

57:10    你因路遠疲倦，卻不說，這是枉然。你以為有復興之力，所以不覺疲憊。
Thou art wearied in the greatness of thy way; yet saidst thou not, There is no hope: thou hast found the life of thine hand; therefore thou wast not grieved.

57:11    你怕誰，因誰恐懼，竟說謊，不記念我，又不將這事放在心上。我不是許久閉口不言，你仍不怕我嗎。
And of whom hast thou been afraid or feared, that thou hast lied, and hast not remembered me, nor laid it to thy heart? have not I held my peace even of old, and thou fearest me not?

57:12    我要指明你的公義。至於你所行的，都必與你無益。
I will declare thy righteousness, and thy works; for they shall not profit thee.

57:13    你哀求的時候，讓你所聚集的拯救你吧。風要把他們刮散。一口氣要把他們都吹去。但那投靠我的必得地土，必承受我的聖山為業。
When thou criest, let thy companies deliver thee; but the wind shall carry them all away; vanity shall take them: but he that putteth his trust in me shall possess the land, and shall inherit my holy mountain;

57:14    耶和華要說，你們修築修築，豫備道路，將絆腳石從我百姓的路中除掉。
And shall say, Cast ye up, cast ye up, prepare the way, take up the stumblingblock out of the way of my people.

57:15    因為那至高至上，永遠常存，（原文作住在永遠）名為聖者的如此說，我住在至高至聖的所在，也與心靈痛悔謙卑的人同居，要使謙卑人的靈甦醒，也使痛悔人的心甦醒。
For thus saith the high and lofty One that inhabiteth eternity, whose name is Holy; I dwell in the high and holy place, with him also that is of a contrite and humble spirit, to revive the spirit of the humble, and to revive the heart of the contrite ones.

57:16    我必不永遠相爭，也不長久發怒。恐怕我所造的人與靈性，都必發昏。
For I will not contend for ever, neither will I be always wroth: for the spirit should fail before me, and the souls which I have made.

57:17    因他貪婪的罪孽，我就發怒擊打他。我向他掩面發怒，他卻仍然隨心背道。
For the iniquity of his covetousness was I wroth, and smote him: I hid me, and was wroth, and he went on frowardly in the way of his heart.

57:18    我看見他所行的道，也要醫治他。又要引導他，使他和那一同傷心的人，再得安慰。
I have seen his ways, and will heal him: I will lead him also, and restore comforts unto him and to his mourners.

57:19    我造就嘴脣的果子。願平安康泰歸與遠處的人，也歸與近處的人，並且我要醫治他。這是耶和華說的。
I create the fruit of the lips; Peace, peace to him that is far off, and to him that is near, saith the LORD; and I will heal him.

57:20    惟獨惡人，好像翻騰的海，不得平靜，其中的水，常湧出汙穢和淤泥來。
But the wicked are like the troubled sea, when it cannot rest, whose waters cast up mire and dirt.

57:21    我的神說，惡人必不得平安。
There is no peace, saith my God, to the wicked.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 58 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


58:1    你要大聲喊叫，不可止息，揚起聲來好像吹角，向我百姓說明他們的過犯，向雅各家說明他們的罪惡。
Cry aloud, spare not, lift up thy voice like a trumpet, and shew my people their transgression, and the house of Jacob their sins.

58:2    他們天天尋求我，樂意明白我的道。好像行義的國民，不離棄他們神的典章，向我求問公義的判語，喜悅親近神。
Yet they seek me daily, and delight to know my ways, as a nation that did righteousness, and forsook not the ordinance of their God: they ask of me the ordinances of justice; they take delight in approaching to God.

58:3    他們說，我們禁食，你為何不看見呢。我們刻苦己心，你為何不理會呢。看哪，你們禁食的日子，仍求利益，勒逼人為你們作苦工。
Wherefore have we fasted, say they, and thou seest not? wherefore have we afflicted our soul, and thou takest no knowledge? Behold, in the day of your fast ye find pleasure, and exact all your labours.

58:4    你們禁食，卻互相爭競，以凶惡的拳頭打人。你們今日禁食，不得使你們的聲音聽聞於上。
Behold, ye fast for strife and debate, and to smite with the fist of wickedness: ye shall not fast as ye do this day, to make your voice to be heard on high.

58:5    這樣禁食，豈是我所揀選使人刻苦己心的日子嗎。豈是叫人垂頭像葦子，用麻布和爐灰鋪在他以下嗎。你這可稱為禁食為耶和華所悅納的日子嗎。
Is it such a fast that I have chosen? a day for a man to afflict his soul? is it to bow down his head as a bulrush, and to spread sackcloth and ashes under him? wilt thou call this a fast, and an acceptable day to the LORD?

58:6    我所揀選的禁食，不是要鬆開凶惡的繩，解下軛上的索，使被欺壓的得自由，折斷一切的軛嗎。
Is not this the fast that I have chosen? to loose the bands of wickedness, to undo the heavy burdens, and to let the oppressed go free, and that ye break every yoke?

58:7    不是要把你的餅，分給飢餓的人。將飄流的窮人，接到你家中。見赤身的，給他衣服遮體。顧恤自己的骨肉而不掩藏嗎。
Is it not to deal thy bread to the hungry, and that thou bring the poor that are cast out to thy house? when thou seest the naked, that thou cover him; and that thou hide not thyself from thine own flesh?

58:8    這樣你的光就必發現如早晨的光。你所得的醫治，要速速發明。你的公義，必在你面前行。耶和華的榮光，必作你的後盾。
Then shall thy light break forth as the morning, and thine health shall spring forth speedily: and thy righteousness shall go before thee; the glory of the LORD shall be thy rereward.

58:9    那時你求告，耶和華必應允。你呼求，他必說，我在這裡。你若從你中間除掉重軛，和指摘人的指頭，併發惡言的事。
Then shalt thou call, and the LORD shall answer; thou shalt cry, and he shall say, Here I am. If thou take away from the midst of thee the yoke, the putting forth of the finger, and speaking vanity;

58:10    你心若向飢餓的人發憐憫，使困苦的人得滿足。你的光就必在黑暗中發現，你的幽暗必變如正午。
And if thou draw out thy soul to the hungry, and satisfy the afflicted soul; then shall thy light rise in obscurity, and thy darkness be as the noon day:

58:11    耶和華也必時常引導你，在乾旱之地，使你心滿意足，骨頭強壯。你必像澆灌的園子，又像水流不絕的泉源。
And the LORD shall guide thee continually, and satisfy thy soul in drought, and make fat thy bones: and thou shalt be like a watered garden, and like a spring of water, whose waters fail not.

58:12    那些出於你的人，必修造久已荒廢之處。你要建立拆毀累代的根基。你必稱為補破口的，和重修路徑與人居住的。
And they that shall be of thee shall build the old waste places: thou shalt raise up the foundations of many generations; and thou shalt be called, The repairer of the breach, The restorer of paths to dwell in.

58:13    你若在安息日掉轉（或作謹慎）你的腳步，在我聖日不以操作為喜樂，稱安息日為可喜樂的，稱耶和華的聖日為可尊重的。而且尊敬這日，不辦自己的私事，不隨自己的私意，不說自己的私話。
If thou turn away thy foot from the sabbath, from doing thy pleasure on my holy day; and call the sabbath a delight, the holy of the LORD, honourable; and shalt honour him, not doing thine own ways, nor finding thine own pleasure, nor speaking thine own words:

58:14    你就以耶和華為樂。耶和華要使你乘駕地的高處。又以你祖雅各的產業養育你。這是耶和華親口說的。
Then shalt thou delight thyself in the LORD; and I will cause thee to ride upon the high places of the earth, and feed thee with the heritage of Jacob thy father: for the mouth of the LORD hath spoken it.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 59 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


59:1    耶和華的膀臂，並非縮短不能拯救。耳朵，並非發沉不能聽見。
Behold, the LORD's hand is not shortened, that it cannot save; neither his ear heavy, that it cannot hear:

59:2    但你們的罪孽使你們與神隔絕，你們的罪惡使他掩面不聽你們。
But your iniquities have separated between you and your God, and your sins have hid his face from you, that he will not hear.

59:3    因你們的手被血沾染，你們的指頭被罪孽沾汙。你們的嘴脣說謊言，你們的舌頭出惡語。
For your hands are defiled with blood, and your fingers with iniquity; your lips have spoken lies, your tongue hath muttered perverseness.

59:4    無一人按公義告狀，無一人憑誠實辨白。都倚靠虛妄，說謊言。所懷的是毒害，所生的是罪孽。
None calleth for justice, nor any pleadeth for truth: they trust in vanity, and speak lies; they conceive mischief, and bring forth iniquity.



59:5    他們？？毒蛇蛋，結蜘蛛網。人吃這蛋必死。這蛋被踏，必出蝮蛇。
They hatch cockatrice' eggs, and weave the spider's web: he that eateth of their eggs dieth, and that which is crushed breaketh out into a viper.

59:6    所結的網，不能成為衣服，所作的，也不能遮蓋自己。他們的行為都是罪孽，手所作的都是強暴。
Their webs shall not become garments, neither shall they cover themselves with their works: their works are works of iniquity, and the act of violence is in their hands.

59:7    他們的腳奔跑行惡，他們急速流無辜人的血。意念都是罪孽。所經過的路都荒涼毀滅。
Their feet run to evil, and they make haste to shed innocent blood: their thoughts are thoughts of iniquity; wasting and destruction are in their paths.

59:8    平安的路，他們不知道。所行的事沒有公平。他們為自己修彎曲的路。凡行此路的，都不知道平安。
The way of peace they know not; and there is no judgment in their goings: they have made them crooked paths: whosoever goeth therein shall not know peace.

59:9    因此公平離我們遠，公義追不上我們。我們指望光亮，卻是黑暗。指望光明，卻行幽暗。
Therefore is judgment far from us, neither doth justice overtake us: we wait for light, but behold obscurity; for brightness, but we walk in darkness.

59:10    我們摸索牆壁，好像瞎子。我們摸索如同無目之人。我們晌午絆腳，如在黃昏一樣。我們在肥壯人中，像死人一般。
We grope for the wall like the blind, and we grope as if we had no eyes: we stumble at noon day as in the night; we are in desolate places as dead men.

59:11    我們咆哮如熊，哀嗚如鴿。指望公平，卻是沒有。指望救恩，卻遠離我們。
We roar all like bears, and mourn sore like doves: we look for judgment, but there is none; for salvation, but it is far off from us.

59:12    我們的過犯在你面前增多，罪惡作見證告我們。過犯與我們同在。至於我們的罪孽，我們都知道。
For our transgressions are multiplied before thee, and our sins testify against us: for our transgressions are with us; and as for our iniquities, we know them;

59:13    就是悖逆不認識耶和華，轉去不跟從我們的神，說欺壓和叛逆的話，心懷謊言，隨即說出。
In transgressing and lying against the LORD, and departing away from our God, speaking oppression and revolt, conceiving and uttering from the heart words of falsehood.

59:14    並且公平轉而退後，公義站在遠處。誠實在街上仆倒，正直也不得進入。
And judgment is turned away backward, and justice standeth afar off: for truth is fallen in the street, and equity cannot enter.

59:15    誠實少見。離惡的人反成掠物。
Yea, truth faileth; and he that departeth from evil maketh himself a prey: and the LORD saw it, and it displeased him that there was no judgment.

59:16    那時，耶和華看見沒有公平，甚不喜悅。他見無人拯救，無人代求，甚為詫異。就用自己的膀臂施行拯救。以公義扶持自己。
And he saw that there was no man, and wondered that there was no intercessor: therefore his arm brought salvation unto him; and his righteousness, it sustained him.

59:17    他以公義為鎧甲，（或作護心鏡）以拯救為頭盔，以報仇為衣服，以熱心為外袍。
For he put on righteousness as a breastplate, and an helmet of salvation upon his head; and he put on the garments of vengeance for clothing, and was clad with zeal as a cloak.

59:18    他必按人的行為施報，腦怒他的敵人，報復他的仇敵，向眾海島施行報應。
According to their deeds, accordingly he will repay, fury to his adversaries, recompence to his enemies; to the islands he will repay recompence.

59:19    如此，人從日落之處，必敬畏耶和華的名。從日出之地，也必敬畏他的榮耀。因為仇敵好像急流的河水衝來，是耶和華之氣所驅逐的。
So shall they fear the name of the LORD from the west, and his glory from the rising of the sun. When the enemy shall come in like a flood, the Spirit of the LORD shall lift up a standard against him.

59:20    必有一位救贖主，來到錫安雅各族中轉離過犯的人那裡。這是耶和華說的。
And the Redeemer shall come to Zion, and unto them that turn from transgression in Jacob, saith the LORD.

59:21    耶和華說，至於我與他們所立的約，乃是這樣。我加給你的靈，傳給你的話，必不離你的口，也不離你後裔與你後裔之後裔的口，從今直到永遠。這是耶和華說的。
As for me, this is my covenant with them, saith the LORD; My spirit that is upon thee, and my words which I have put in thy mouth, shall not depart out of thy mouth, nor out of the mouth of thy seed, nor out of the mouth of thy seed's seed, saith the LORD, from henceforth and for ever.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 60 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


60:1    興起發光。因為你的光已經來到，耶和華的榮耀發現照耀你。
Arise, shine; for thy light is come, and the glory of the LORD is risen upon thee.

60:2    看哪，黑暗遮蓋大地，幽暗遮蓋萬民。耶和華卻要顯現照耀你，他的榮耀要現在你身上。
For, behold, the darkness shall cover the earth, and gross darkness the people: but the LORD shall arise upon thee, and his glory shall be seen upon thee.

60:3    萬國要來就你的光，君王要來就你發現的光輝。
And the Gentiles shall come to thy light, and kings to the brightness of thy rising.

60:4    你舉目向四方觀看。眾人都聚集來到你這裡。你的眾子從遠方而來，你的眾女也被懷抱而來。
Lift up thine eyes round about, and see: all they gather themselves together, they come to thee: thy sons shall come from far, and thy daughters shall be nursed at thy side.

60:5    那時你看見就有光榮，你心又跳動，又寬暢。因為大海豐盛的貨物，必轉來歸你，列國的財寶，也必來歸你。
Then thou shalt see, and flow together, and thine heart shall fear, and be enlarged; because the abundance of the sea shall be converted unto thee, the forces of the Gentiles shall come unto thee.

60:6    成群的駱駝，並米甸和以法的獨峰駝，必遮滿你。示巴的眾人，都必來到。要奉上黃金乳香，又要傳說耶和華的讚美。
The multitude of camels shall cover thee, the dromedaries of Midian and Ephah; all they from Sheba shall come: they shall bring gold and incense; and they shall shew forth the praises of the LORD.

60:7    基達的羊群，都必聚集到你這裡，尼拜約的公羊，要供你使用。在我壇上必蒙悅納。我必榮耀我榮耀的殿。
All the flocks of Kedar shall be gathered together unto thee, the rams of Nebaioth shall minister unto thee: they shall come up with acceptance on mine altar, and I will glorify the house of my glory.

60:8    那些飛來如雲，又如鴿子向窗戶飛回的，是誰呢。
Who are these that fly as a cloud, and as the doves to their windows?

60:9    眾海島必等候我，首先是他施的船隻，將你的眾子，連他們的金銀，從遠方一同帶來，都為耶和華你神的名，又為以色列的聖者，因為他已經榮耀了你。
Surely the isles shall wait for me, and the ships of Tarshish first, to bring thy sons from far, their silver and their gold with them, unto the name of the LORD thy God, and to the Holy One of Israel, because he hath glorified thee.

60:10    外邦人必建築你的城牆，他們的王必服事你。我曾發怒擊打你，現今卻施恩憐恤你。
And the sons of strangers shall build up thy walls, and their kings shall minister unto thee: for in my wrath I smote thee, but in my favour have I had mercy on thee.

60:11    你的城門必時常開放，晝夜不關，使人把列國的財物帶來歸你，並將他們的君王牽引而來。
Therefore thy gates shall be open continually; they shall not be shut day nor night; that men may bring unto thee the forces of the Gentiles, and that their kings may be brought.

60:12    那一邦那一國不事奉你，就必滅亡，也必全然荒廢。
For the nation and kingdom that will not serve thee shall perish; yea, those nations shall be utterly wasted.

60:13    黎巴嫩的榮耀，就是松樹，衫樹，黃楊樹，都必一同歸你，為要修飾我聖所之地。我也要使我腳踏之處的榮耀。
The glory of Lebanon shall come unto thee, the fir tree, the pine tree, and the box together, to beautify the place of my sanctuary; and I will make the place of my feet glorious.

60:14    素來苦待你的，他的子孫都必屈身來就你。藐視你的，都要在你腳下跪拜。他們要稱你為耶和華的城，為以色列的聖者的錫安。
The sons also of them that afflicted thee shall come bending unto thee; and all they that despised thee shall bow themselves down at the soles of thy feet; and they shall call thee, The city of the LORD, The Zion of the Holy One of Israel.

60:15    你雖然被撇棄被厭惡，甚至無人經過，我卻使你變為永遠的榮華，成為累代的喜樂。
Whereas thou hast been forsaken and hated, so that no man went through thee, I will make thee an eternal excellency, a joy of many generations.

60:16    你也必吃萬國的奶，又吃君王的奶。你便知道我耶和華是你的救主，是你的救贖主，雅各的大能者。
Thou shalt also suck the milk of the Gentiles, and shalt suck the breast of kings: and thou shalt know that I the LORD am thy Saviour and thy Redeemer, the mighty One of Jacob.

60:17    我要拿金子代替銅，拿銀子帶替鐵，拿銅代替木頭，拿鐵帶替石頭。並要以和平為的官長，以公義為你的監督。
For brass I will bring gold, and for iron I will bring silver, and for wood brass, and for stones iron: I will also make thy officers peace, and thine exactors righteousness.

60:18    你地上不再聽見強暴的事，境內不再聽見荒涼毀滅的事。你必稱你的牆為拯救，稱你的門為讚美。
Violence shall no more be heard in thy land, wasting nor destruction within thy borders; but thou shalt call thy walls Salvation, and thy gates Praise.



60:19    日頭不再作你白晝的光，月亮也不再發光照耀你。耶和華卻要作你永遠的光，你的神要為你的榮耀。
The sun shall be no more thy light by day; neither for brightness shall the moon give light unto thee: but the LORD shall be unto thee an everlasting light, and thy God thy glory.

60:20    你的日頭不再下落，你的月亮也不退縮。因為耶和華必作你永遠的光，你悲哀的日子也完畢了。
Thy sun shall no more go down; neither shall thy moon withdraw itself: for the LORD shall be thine everlasting light, and the days of thy mourning shall be ended.

60:21    你的居民都成為義人，永遠得地為業，是我種的栽子，我手的工作，使我得榮耀。
Thy people also shall be all righteous: they shall inherit the land for ever, the branch of my planting, the work of my hands, that I may be glorified.

60:22    至小的族要加增千倍，微弱的國必成為強盛。我耶和華要按定期速成這事。
A little one shall become a thousand, and a small one a strong nation: I the LORD will hasten it in his time.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 61 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


61:1    主耶和華的靈在我身上。因為耶和華用膏膏我，叫我傳好資訊給謙卑的人，（或作傳福音給貧窮的人）差遣我醫好傷心的人，報告被擄的得釋放，被囚的出監牢。
The Spirit of the Lord GOD is upon me; because the LORD hath anointed me to preach good tidings unto the meek; he hath sent me to bind up the brokenhearted, to proclaim liberty to the captives, and the opening of the prison to them that are bound;

61:2    報告耶和華的恩年，和我們神報仇的日子。安慰一切悲哀的人。
To proclaim the acceptable year of the LORD, and the day of vengeance of our God; to comfort all that mourn;

61:3    賜華冠與錫安悲哀的人，代替灰塵，喜樂油，代替悲哀，讚美衣，代替憂傷之靈。使他們稱為公義樹，是耶和華所栽的，叫他得榮耀。
To appoint unto them that mourn in Zion, to give unto them beauty for ashes, the oil of joy for mourning, the garment of praise for the spirit of heaviness; that they might be called trees of righteousness, the planting of the LORD, that he might be glorified.

61:4    他們必修造已久的荒場，建立先前淒涼之處，重修歷代荒涼之城。
And they shall build the old wastes, they shall raise up the former desolations, and they shall repair the waste cities, the desolations of many generations.

61:5    那時，外人必起來牧放你們的羊群，外邦人必做你們耕種田地的，修理葡萄園的。
And strangers shall stand and feed your flocks, and the sons of the alien shall be your plowmen and your vinedressers.

61:6    你們倒要稱為耶和華的祭司。人必稱你們為我們神的僕役。你們必吃用列國的財物，因得他們的榮耀自誇。
But ye shall be named the Priests of the LORD: men shall call you the Ministers of our God: ye shall eat the riches of the Gentiles, and in their glory shall ye boast yourselves.



61:7    你們必得加倍的好處，代替所受的修辱。分中所得的喜樂，必代替所受的凌辱。在境內必得加倍的產業。永遠之樂必歸與你們。（原文他們）
For your shame ye shall have double; and for confusion they shall rejoice in their portion: therefore in their land they shall possess the double: everlasting joy shall be unto them.

61:8    因為我耶和華喜愛公平，恨惡搶奪和罪孽。我要憑誠實施行報應，並要與我的百姓立永約。
For I the LORD love judgment, I hate robbery for burnt offering; and I will direct their work in truth, and I will make an everlasting covenant with them.

61:9    他們的後裔必在列國中被人認識，他們的子孫在眾民中也是如此。凡看見他們的，必認他們是耶和華賜福的後裔。
And their seed shall be known among the Gentiles, and their offspring among the people: all that see them shall acknowledge them, that they are the seed which the LORD hath blessed.

61:10    我因耶和華大大歡喜，我的心靠神快樂。因他以拯救為衣給我穿上，以公義為袍給我披上，好像新郎戴上華冠，又像新婦佩戴妝飾。
I will greatly rejoice in the LORD, my soul shall be joyful in my God; for he hath clothed me with the garments of salvation, he hath covered me with the robe of righteousness, as a bridegroom decketh himself with ornaments, and as a bride adorneth herself with her jewels.

61:11    田地怎樣使百穀發芽，園子怎樣使所種的發生，主耶和華必照樣使公義和讚美在萬民中發出。
For as the earth bringeth forth her bud, and as the garden causeth the things that are sown in it to spring forth; so the Lord GOD will cause righteousness and praise to spring forth before all the nations.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 62 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


62:1    我因錫安必不靜默，為耶路撒冷必不息聲，直到他的公義如光輝發出，他的救恩如明燈發亮。
For Zion's sake will I not hold my peace, and for Jerusalem's sake I will not rest, until the righteousness thereof go forth as brightness, and the salvation thereof as a lamp that burneth.

62:2    列國必見你的公義，列王必見你的榮耀。你必得新名的稱呼，是耶和華親口所起的。
And the Gentiles shall see thy righteousness, and all kings thy glory: and thou shalt be called by a new name, which the mouth of the LORD shall name.

62:3    你在耶和華的手中要作為華冠，在你神的掌上必作為冕旒。
Thou shalt also be a crown of glory in the hand of the LORD, and a royal diadem in the hand of thy God.

62:4    你必不再稱為撇棄的，你的地也不再稱為荒涼的，你卻要稱為我所喜悅的，你的地也必稱為有夫之婦。因為耶和華喜悅你，你的地也必歸他。
Thou shalt no more be termed Forsaken; neither shall thy land any more be termed Desolate: but thou shalt be called Hephzibah, and thy land Beulah: for the LORD delighteth in thee, and thy land shall be married.

62:5    少年人怎樣娶處女，你的眾民（民原文作子）也要照樣娶你。新郎怎樣喜悅新婦，你的神也照樣喜悅你。
For as a young man marrieth a virgin, so shall thy sons marry thee: and as the bridegroom rejoiceth over the bride, so shall thy God rejoice over thee.

62:6    耶路撒冷阿，我在你城上設立守望的。他們晝夜必不靜默。呼籲耶和華的，你們不要歇息，
I have set watchmen upon thy walls, O Jerusalem, which shall never hold their peace day nor night: ye that make mention of the LORD, keep not silence,

62:7    也不要使他歇息，直等他建立耶路撒冷，使耶路撒冷在地上成為可讚美的。
And give him no rest, till he establish, and till he make Jerusalem a praise in the earth.

62:8    耶和華指著自己的右手和大能的膀臂起誓，說，我必不再將你的五穀給你的仇敵作食物，外邦人也不再喝你勞碌得來的新酒。
The LORD hath sworn by his right hand, and by the arm of his strength, Surely I will no more give thy corn to be meat for thine enemies; and the sons of the stranger shall not drink thy wine, for the which thou hast laboured:

62:9    惟有那收割的要吃，並讚美耶和華。那聚斂的要在我聖所的院內喝。
But they that have gathered it shall eat it, and praise the LORD; and they that have brought it together shall drink it in the courts of my holiness.

62:10    你們當從門經過經過。豫備百姓的路。修築修築大道。撿去石頭。為萬民豎立大旗。
Go through, go through the gates; prepare ye the way of the people; cast up, cast up the highway; gather out the stones; lift up a standard for the people.

62:11    看哪，耶和華曾宣告到地極，對錫安的居民（原文作女子）說，你的拯救者來到。他的賞賜在他那裡，他的報應在他面前。
Behold, the LORD hath proclaimed unto the end of the world, Say ye to the daughter of Zion, Behold, thy salvation cometh; behold, his reward is with him, and his work before him.

62:12    人必稱他們為聖民，為耶和華的贖民。你也必稱為被眷顧不撇棄的城。
And they shall call them, The holy people, The redeemed of the LORD: and thou shalt be called, Sought out, A city not forsaken.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 63 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


63:1    這從以東的波斯拉來，穿紅衣服，裝扮華美，能力廣大，大步行走的是誰呢。就是我，是憑公義說話，以大能施行拯救。
Who is this that cometh from Edom, with dyed garments from Bozrah? this that is glorious in his apparel, travelling in the greatness of his strength? I that speak in righteousness, mighty to save.

63:2    你的裝扮為何有紅色，你的衣服為何像踹酒榨的呢。
Wherefore art thou red in thine apparel, and thy garments like him that treadeth in the winefat?

63:3    我獨自踹酒榨。眾民中無一人與我同在。我發怒將他們踹下，發烈怒將他們踐踏。他們的血濺在我衣服上，並且汙染了我一切的衣裳。
I have trodden the winepress alone; and of the people there was none with me: for I will tread them in mine anger, and trample them in my fury; and their blood shall be sprinkled upon my garments, and I will stain all my raiment.

63:4    因為報仇之日在我心中，救贖我民之年已經來到。
For the day of vengeance is in mine heart, and the year of my redeemed is come.

63:5    我仰望，見無人幫助。我詫異，沒有人扶持。所以我自己的膀臂為我施行拯救。我的烈怒將我扶持。
And I looked, and there was none to help; and I wondered that there was none to uphold: therefore mine own arm brought salvation unto me; and my fury, it upheld me.

63:6    我發怒，踹下眾民，發烈怒，使他們沉醉，又將他們的血倒在地上。
And I will tread down the people in mine anger, and make them drunk in my fury, and I will bring down their strength to the earth.

63:7    我要照耶和華一切所賜給我們的，題起他的慈愛，和美德，並他向以色列家所施的大恩，這恩是照他的憐恤和豐盛的慈愛賜給他們的。
I will mention the lovingkindnesses of the LORD, and the praises of the LORD, according to all that the LORD hath bestowed on us, and the great goodness toward the house of Israel, which he hath bestowed on them according to his mercies, and according to the multitude of his lovingkindnesses.

63:8    他說，他們誠然是我的百姓，不行虛假的子民。這樣，他就作了他們的救主。
For he said, Surely they are my people, children that will not lie: so he was their Saviour.

63:9    他們在一切苦難中，他也同受苦難。並且他面前的使者拯救他們。他以慈愛和憐憫救贖他們。在古時的日子，常保抱他們，懷搋他們。
In all their affliction he was afflicted, and the angel of his presence saved them: in his love and in his pity he redeemed them; and he bare them, and carried them all the days of old.

63:10    他們竟悖逆，使主的聖靈擔憂。他就轉作他們的仇敵，親自攻擊他們。
But they rebelled, and vexed his holy Spirit: therefore he was turned to be their enemy, and he fought against them.



63:11    那時，他們（原文作他）想起古時的日子摩西和他百姓，說，將百姓和牧養他全群的人從海里領上來的，在那裡呢。將他的聖靈降在他們中間的，在那裡呢。
Then he remembered the days of old, Moses, and his people, saying, Where is he that brought them up out of the sea with the shepherd of his flock? where is he that put his holy Spirit within him?

63:12    使他榮耀的膀臂在摩西的右手邊行動，在他們面前將水分開，要建立自己永遠的名，
That led them by the right hand of Moses with his glorious arm, dividing the water before them, to make himself an everlasting name?

63:13    帶領他們經過深處，如馬行走曠野，使他們不至絆跌的，在那裡呢。
That led them through the deep, as an horse in the wilderness, that they should not stumble?

63:14    耶和華的靈使他們得安息，彷佛牲畜下到山谷，照樣，你也引導你的百姓，要建立自己榮耀的名。
As a beast goeth down into the valley, the Spirit of the LORD caused him to rest: so didst thou lead thy people, to make thyself a glorious name.

63:15    求你從天上垂顧，從你聖潔榮耀的居所觀看。你的熱心和大能的作為在那裡呢。你愛慕的心腸和憐憫向我們止住了。
Look down from heaven, and behold from the habitation of thy holiness and of thy glory: where is thy zeal and thy strength, the sounding of thy bowels and of thy mercies toward me? are they restrained?

63:16    亞伯拉罕雖然不認識我們，以色列也不承認我們，你卻是我們的父。耶和華阿，你是我們的父。從萬古以來，你的名稱為我們的救贖主。
Doubtless thou art our father, though Abraham be ignorant of us, and Israel acknowledge us not: thou, O LORD, art our father, our redeemer; thy name is from everlasting.

63:17    耶和華阿，你為何使我們走差離開你的道，使我們心裡剛硬不敬畏你呢。求你為你僕人為你產業支派的緣故轉回來。
O LORD, why hast thou made us to err from thy ways, and hardened our heart from thy fear? Return for thy servants' sake, the tribes of thine inheritance.

63:18    你的聖民不過暫時得這產業。我們的敵人已經踐踏你的聖所。
The people of thy holiness have possessed it but a little while: our adversaries have trodden down thy sanctuary.

63:19    我們好像你未曾治理的人，又像未曾得稱你名下的人。
We are thine: thou never barest rule over them; they were not called by thy name.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 64 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


64:1    願你裂天而降，願山在你面前紳動，
Oh that thou wouldest rend the heavens, that thou wouldest come down, that the mountains might flow down at thy presence,

64:2    好像火燒乾柴，又像火將水燒開。使你敵人知道你的名，使列國在你面前發顫。
As when the melting fire burneth, the fire causeth the waters to boil, to make thy name known to thine adversaries, that the nations may tremble at thy presence!

64:3    你曾行我們不能逆料可畏的事。那時你降臨，山嶺在你面前紳動。
When thou didst terrible things which we looked not for, thou camest down, the mountains flowed down at thy presence.

64:4    從古以來人未曾聽見，未曾耳聞，未曾眼見，在你以外有什麼神為等候他的人行事。
For since the beginning of the world men have not heard, nor perceived by the ear, neither hath the eye seen, O God, beside thee, what he hath prepared for him that waiteth for him.

64:5    你迎接那歡喜行義記念你道的人，你曾發怒，我們仍犯罪。這景況以久。我們還能得救嗎。
Thou meetest him that rejoiceth and worketh righteousness, those that remember thee in thy ways: behold, thou art wroth; for we have sinned: in those is continuance, and we shall be saved.

64:6    我們都像不潔淨的人，所有的義都像汙穢的衣服。我們都像葉子漸漸枯乾。我們的罪孽好像風把我們吹去。
But we are all as an unclean thing, and all our righteousnesses are as filthy rags; and we all do fade as a leaf; and our iniquities, like the wind, have taken us away.

64:7    並且無人求告你的名，無人奮刀抓住你。原來你掩面不顧我們，使我們因罪孽消化。
And there is none that calleth upon thy name, that stirreth up himself to take hold of thee: for thou hast hid thy face from us, and hast consumed us, because of our iniquities.

64:8    耶和華阿，現在你仍是我們的父。我們是泥，你是窯匠。我們都是你手的工作。
But now, O LORD, thou art our father; we are the clay, and thou our potter; and we all are the work of thy hand.

64:9    耶和華阿，求你不要大發震怒，也不要永遠記念罪孽。求你垂顧我們，我們都是你的百姓。
Be not wroth very sore, O LORD, neither remember iniquity for ever: behold, see, we beseech thee, we are all thy people.

64:10    你的聖邑變為曠野，錫安變為曠野，耶路撒冷成為荒場。
Thy holy cities are a wilderness, Zion is a wilderness, Jerusalem a desolation.

64:11    我們聖潔華美的殿，就是我們列祖讚美你的所在，被火焚燒。我們所羨慕的美地，盡都荒廢。
Our holy and our beautiful house, where our fathers praised thee, is burned up with fire: and all our pleasant things are laid waste.

64:12    耶和華阿，有這些事，你還忍得住嗎。你仍靜默使我們深受苦難嗎。
Wilt thou refrain thyself for these things, O LORD? wilt thou hold thy peace, and afflict us very sore?




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 65 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


65:1    素來沒有訪問我的，現在求問我。沒有尋梢我的，我叫他們遇見。沒有稱為我名下的，我對他們說，我在這裡，我在這裡。
I am sought of them that asked not for me; I am found of them that sought me not: I said, Behold me, behold me, unto a nation that was not called by my name.

65:2    我整天伸手招呼那悖逆的百姓，他們隨自己的意念行不善之道。
I have spread out my hands all the day unto a rebellious people, which walketh in a way that was not good, after their own thoughts;

65:3    這百姓時常當面惹我發怒，在園中獻祭，在壇（原文作磚）上燒香。
A people that provoketh me to anger continually to my face; that sacrificeth in gardens, and burneth incense upon altars of brick;

65:4    在墳墓間坐著，在隱密處住宿，吃豬肉，他們器皿中有可憎之物作的湯。
Which remain among the graves, and lodge in the monuments, which eat swine's flesh, and broth of abominable things is in their vessels;

65:5    且對人說，你站開吧，不要挨近我，因為我比你聖潔。主說，這些人是我鼻中的煙，是整天燒著的火。
Which say, Stand by thyself, come not near to me; for I am holier than thou. These are a smoke in my nose, a fire that burneth all the day.

65:6    看哪，這都寫在我面前，我必不靜默，必施行報應，必將你們的罪孽，和你們列祖的罪孽，就是在山上燒香，在岡上褻瀆我的罪孽，
Behold, it is written before me: I will not keep silence, but will recompense, even recompense into their bosom,

65:7    一同報應在他們後人懷中。我先要把他們所行的量給他們。這是耶和華說的。
Your iniquities, and the iniquities of your fathers together, saith the LORD, which have burned incense upon the mountains, and blasphemed me upon the hills: therefore will I measure their former work into their bosom.

65:8    耶和華如此說，葡萄中尋得新酒，人就說，不要毀壞，因為福在其中。我因我僕人的緣故也必照樣而行，不將他們全然毀滅。
Thus saith the LORD, As the new wine is found in the cluster, and one saith, Destroy it not; for a blessing is in it: so will I do for my servants' sakes, that I may not destroy them all.

65:9    我必從雅各中領出後裔，從猶大中領出承受我眾山的。我的選民必承受，我的僕人要在那裡居住。
And I will bring forth a seed out of Jacob, and out of Judah an inheritor of my mountains: and mine elect shall inherit it, and my servants shall dwell there.

65:10    沙崙平原必成為羊群的圈，亞割古必成為牛群躺臥之處。都為尋求我的民所得。
And Sharon shall be a fold of flocks, and the valley of Achor a place for the herds to lie down in, for my people that have sought me.

65:11    但你們這些離棄耶和華，忘記我的聖山，給時運擺筵席，（原文作桌子）給天命盛滿調和酒的。
But ye are they that forsake the LORD, that forget my holy mountain, that prepare a table for that troop, and that furnish the drink offering unto that number.

65:12    我要命定你們歸在刀下，都必屈身被殺，因為我呼喚，你們沒有答應。我說話，你們沒有聽從。反倒行我眼中看為惡的，揀選我所不喜悅的。
Therefore will I number you to the sword, and ye shall all bow down to the slaughter: because when I called, ye did not answer; when I spake, ye did not hear; but did evil before mine eyes, and did choose that wherein I delighted not.

65:13    所以主耶和華如此說，我的僕人必得吃，你們卻飢餓。我的僕人必得喝，你們卻乾渴。我的僕人必歡喜，你們卻蒙羞。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD, Behold, my servants shall eat, but ye shall be hungry: behold, my servants shall drink, but ye shall be thirsty: behold, my servants shall rejoice, but ye shall be ashamed:

65:14    我的僕人因心中高興歡呼，你們卻因心中憂愁哀哭，又因心裡憂傷哀號。
Behold, my servants shall sing for joy of heart, but ye shall cry for sorrow of heart, and shall howl for vexation of spirit.

65:15    你們必留下自己的名，為我選民指著賭咒。主耶和華必殺你們，另起別名稱呼他的僕人。
And ye shall leave your name for a curse unto my chosen: for the Lord GOD shall slay thee, and call his servants by another name:

65:16    這樣，在地上為自己求福的，必憑真實的神求福。在地上起誓的，必指真實的神起誓。因為從前的患難已經忘記，也從我眼前隱藏了。
That he who blesseth himself in the earth shall bless himself in the God of truth; and he that sweareth in the earth shall swear by the God of truth; because the former troubles are forgotten, and because they are hid from mine eyes.

65:17    看哪，我造新天新地，從前的事不再被記念，也不再追想。
For, behold, I create new heavens and a new earth: and the former shall not be remembered, nor come into mind.

65:18    你們當因我所造的永遠歡喜快樂。因我造耶路撒冷為人所喜，造其中的居民為人所樂。
But be ye glad and rejoice for ever in that which I create: for, behold, I create Jerusalem a rejoicing, and her people a joy.

65:19    我必因耶路撒冷歡喜，因我的百姓快樂。其中必不再聽見哭泣的聲音，和哀號的聲音。
And I will rejoice in Jerusalem, and joy in my people: and the voice of weeping shall be no more heard in her, nor the voice of crying.

65:20    其中必沒有數日夭亡的嬰孩，也沒有壽數不滿的老者。因為百歲死的仍算孩童，有百歲死的罪人算被咒詛。
There shall be no more thence an infant of days, nor an old man that hath not filled his days: for the child shall die an hundred years old; but the sinner being an hundred years old shall be accursed.

65:21    他們要建造房屋，自己居住。栽種葡萄園，吃其中的果子。
And they shall build houses, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and eat the fruit of them.

65:22    他們建造的，別人不得住。他們栽種的，別人不得吃。因為我民的日子必像樹木的日子。我選民親手勞碌得來的必長久享用。
They shall not build, and another inhabit; they shall not plant, and another eat: for as the days of a tree are the days of my people, and mine elect shall long enjoy the work of their hands.

65:23    他們必不徒然勞碌，所生產的，也不遭災害。因為都是蒙耶和華賜福的後裔，他們的子孫也是如此。
They shall not labour in vain, nor bring forth for trouble; for they are the seed of the blessed of the LORD, and their offspring with them.

65:24    他們尚未求告，我就應允。正說話的時候，我就垂聽。
And it shall come to pass, that before they call, I will answer; and while they are yet speaking, I will hear.

65:25    豺狼必與羊羔同食，獅子必吃草與牛一樣。塵土必作蛇的食物。在我聖山的遍處，這一切都不傷人不害物，這是耶和華說的。
The wolf and the lamb shall feed together, and the lion shall eat straw like the bullock: and dust shall be the serpent's meat. They shall not hurt nor destroy in all my holy mountain, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 以賽亞書(Isaiah) -- 第 66 章 ( 本篇共有 66 章 )    　


66:1    耶和華如此說，天是我的座位，地是我的腳凳。你們要為我造何等的殿宇。那裡是我安息的地方呢。
Thus saith the LORD, The heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool: where is the house that ye build unto me? and where is the place of my rest?

66:2    耶和華說，這一切都是我手所造的，所以就都有了。但我所看顧的就是虛心痛悔因我話而戰兢的人。（虛心原文作貧窮）
For all those things hath mine hand made, and all those things have been, saith the LORD: but to this man will I look, even to him that is poor and of a contrite spirit, and trembleth at my word.

66:3    假冒為善的宰牛好像殺人。獻羊羔好像打折狗項。獻供物好像獻豬血。燒乳香好像稱頌偶像。這等人揀選自己的道路，心裡喜悅行可憎惡的事。
He that killeth an ox is as if he slew a man; he that sacrificeth a lamb, as if he cut off a dog's neck; he that offereth an oblation, as if he offered swine's blood; he that burneth incense, as if he blessed an idol. Yea, they have chosen their own ways, and their soul delighteth in their abominations.

66:4    我也必揀選迷惑他們的事，使他們所懼怕的臨到他們。因為我呼喚，無人答應。我說話，他們不聽從。反倒行我眼中看為惡的，揀選我所不喜悅的。
I also will choose their delusions, and will bring their fears upon them; because when I called, none did answer; when I spake, they did not hear: but they did evil before mine eyes, and chose that in which I delighted not.

66:5    你們因耶和華言語戰兢的人，當聽他的話。你們的弟兄，就是恨惡你們，因我名趕出你們的，曾說，願耶和華得榮耀，使我們得見你們的喜樂。但蒙羞的究竟是他們。
Hear the word of the LORD, ye that tremble at his word; Your brethren that hated you, that cast you out for my name's sake, said, Let the LORD be glorified: but he shall appear to your joy, and they shall be ashamed.

66:6    有喧譁的聲音出自城中，有聲音出於殿中，是耶和華向仇敵施行報應的聲音。
A voice of noise from the city, a voice from the temple, a voice of the LORD that rendereth recompence to his enemies.

66:7    錫安未曾劬勞，就生產。未覺疼痛，就生出男孩。
Before she travailed, she brought forth; before her pain came, she was delivered of a man child.

66:8    國豈能一日而生。民豈能一時而產。因為錫安一劬勞，便生下兒女，這樣的事，誰曾聽見，誰曾看見呢。
Who hath heard such a thing? who hath seen such things? Shall the earth be made to bring forth in one day? or shall a nation be born at once? for as soon as Zion travailed, she brought forth her children.

66:9    耶和華說，我既使他臨產，豈不使他生產呢。你的神說，我既使他生產，豈能使他閉胎不生呢。
Shall I bring to the birth, and not cause to bring forth? saith the LORD: shall I cause to bring forth, and shut the womb? saith thy God.

66:10    你們愛慕耶路撒冷的，都要與他一同歡喜快樂。你們為他悲哀的，都要與他一同樂上加樂。
Rejoice ye with Jerusalem, and be glad with her, all ye that love her: rejoice for joy with her, all ye that mourn for her:

66:11    使你們在他安慰的懷中吃奶得飽。使他們得他豐盛的榮耀，猶如擠奶，滿心喜樂。
That ye may suck, and be satisfied with the breasts of her consolations; that ye may milk out, and be delighted with the abundance of her glory.

66:12    耶和華如此說，我要使平安延及他，好像江河，使列國的榮耀延及他，如同漲溢的河，你們要從中享受。（原文作咂）你們必蒙抱在肋旁，搖弄在膝上。
For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will extend peace to her like a river, and the glory of the Gentiles like a flowing stream: then shall ye suck, ye shall be borne upon her sides, and be dandled upon her knees.

66:13    母親怎樣安慰兒子，我就照樣安慰你們。你們也必因（或作在）耶路撒冷得安慰。
As one whom his mother comforteth, so will I comfort you; and ye shall be comforted in Jerusalem.

66:14    你們看見，就心中快樂，你們的骨頭必得滋潤，像嫩草一樣。而且耶和華的手向他僕人所行的，必被人知道。他也要向仇敵發惱恨。
And when ye see this, your heart shall rejoice, and your bones shall flourish like an herb: and the hand of the LORD shall be known toward his servants, and his indignation toward his enemies.

66:15    看哪，耶和華必在火中降臨，他的車輦像旋風，以烈怒施行報應，以火焰施行責罰。
For, behold, the LORD will come with fire, and with his chariots like a whirlwind, to render his anger with fury, and his rebuke with flames of fire.

66:16    因為耶和華在一切有血氣的人身上，必以火與刀施行審判。被耶和華所殺的必多。
For by fire and by his sword will the LORD plead with all flesh: and the slain of the LORD shall be many.

66:17    那些分別為聖，潔淨自己的，進入園內跟在其中一個人的後頭，吃豬肉和倉鼠並可憎之物，他們必一同滅絕。這是耶和華說的。
They that sanctify themselves, and purify themselves in the gardens behind one tree in the midst, eating swine's flesh, and the abomination, and the mouse, shall be consumed together, saith the LORD.

66:18    我知道他們的行為和他們的意念。時候將到，我必將萬民萬族（族原文作舌）聚來。看見我的榮耀。
For I know their works and their thoughts: it shall come, that I will gather all nations and tongues; and they shall come, and see my glory.

66:19    我要顯神蹟（或作記號）在他們中間，逃脫的我要差到列國去，就是到他施，普勒，拉弓的路德，和士巴，雅完，並素來沒有聽見我的名聲，沒有看見我榮耀遼遠的海島。他們必將我的榮耀傳揚在列國中。
And I will set a sign among them, and I will send those that escape of them unto the nations, to Tarshish, Pul, and Lud, that draw the bow, to Tubal, and Javan, to the isles afar off, that have not heard my fame, neither have seen my glory; and they shall declare my glory among the Gentiles.

66:20    他們必將你們的弟兄從列國中送回，使他們或騎馬，或坐車，坐轎，騎騾子，騎獨峰駝，到我的聖山耶路撒冷，作為供物獻給耶和華，好像以色列人用潔淨的器皿盛供物奉到耶和華的殿中；這是耶和華說的。
And they shall bring all your brethren for an offering unto the LORD out of all nations upon horses, and in chariots, and in litters, and upon mules, and upon swift beasts, to my holy mountain Jerusalem, saith the LORD, as the children of Israel bring an offering in a clean vessel into the house of the LORD.

66:21    耶和華說，我也必從他們中間取人為祭司，為利未人。
And I will also take of them for priests and for Levites, saith the LORD.

66:22    耶和華說，我所要造的新天新地，怎樣在我面前長存，你們的後裔和你們的名字，也必照樣長存。
For as the new heavens and the new earth, which I will make, shall remain before me, saith the LORD, so shall your seed and your name remain.

66:23    每逢月朔，安息日，凡有血氣的必來在我面前下拜。這是耶和華說的。
And it shall come to pass, that from one new moon to another, and from one sabbath to another, shall all flesh come to worship before me, saith the LORD.

66:24    他們必出去觀看那些違揹我人的屍首。因為他們的蟲是不死的，他們的火是不滅的。凡有血氣的，都必憎惡他們。
And they shall go forth, and look upon the carcases of the men that have transgressed against me: for their worm shall not die, neither shall their fire be quenched; and they shall be an abhorring unto all flesh.



