

舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


1:1    便雅憫地亞拿突城的祭司中，希勒家的兒子耶利米的話記在下面。
The words of Jeremiah the son of Hilkiah, of the priests that were in Anathoth in the land of Benjamin:

1:2    猶大王亞們的兒子約西亞在位十三年，耶和華的話臨到耶利米。
To whom the word of the LORD came in the days of Josiah the son of Amon king of Judah, in the thirteenth year of his reign.

1:3    從猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬在位的時候，直到猶大王約西亞的兒子西底家在位的末年，就是十一年五月間耶路撒冷人被擄的時候，耶和華的話也常臨到耶利米。
It came also in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, unto the end of the eleventh year of Zedekiah the son of Josiah king of Judah, unto the carrying away of Jerusalem captive in the fifth month.

1:4    耶利米說，耶和華的話臨到我說，
Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

1:5    我未將你造在腹中，我已曉得你。你未出母胎，我已分別你為聖。我已派你作列國的先知。
Before I formed thee in the belly I knew thee; and before thou camest forth out of the womb I sanctified thee, and I ordained thee a prophet unto the nations.

1:6    我就說，主耶和華阿，我不知怎樣說，因為我是年幼的。
Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, I cannot speak: for I am a child.

1:7    耶和華對我說，你不要說我是年幼的，因為我差遣你到誰那裡去，你都要去。我吩咐你說什麼話，你都要說。
But the LORD said unto me, Say not, I am a child: for thou shalt go to all that I shall send thee, and whatsoever I command thee thou shalt speak.

1:8    你不要懼怕他們，因為我與你同在，要拯救你。這是耶和華說的。
Be not afraid of their faces: for I am with thee to deliver thee, saith the LORD.

1:9    於是耶和華伸手按我的口，對我說，我已將當說的話傳給你。
Then the LORD put forth his hand, and touched my mouth. And the LORD said unto me, Behold, I have put my words in thy mouth.

1:10    看哪，我今日立你在列邦列國之上，為要施行拔出，拆毀，毀壞，傾覆，又要建立，栽植。
See, I have this day set thee over the nations and over the kingdoms, to root out, and to pull down, and to destroy, and to throw down, to build, and to plant.

1:11    耶和華的話又臨到我說，耶利米，你看見什麼。我說，我看見一根杏樹枝。
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying, Jeremiah, what seest thou? And I said, I see a rod of an almond tree.

1:12    耶和華對我說，你看得不錯。因為我留意保守我的話，使得成就。
Then said the LORD unto me, Thou hast well seen: for I will hasten my word to perform it.

1:13    耶和華的話第二次臨到我說，你看見什麼。我說，我看見一個燒開的鍋，從北而傾。
And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying, What seest thou? And I said, I see a seething pot; and the face thereof is toward the north.

1:14    耶和華對我說，必有災禍從北方發出，臨到這地的一切居民。
Then the LORD said unto me, Out of the north an evil shall break forth upon all the inhabitants of the land.

1:15    耶和華說，看哪，我要召北方列國的眾族。他們要來，各安座位在耶路撒冷的城門口，周圍攻擊城牆，又要攻擊猶大的一切城邑。
For, lo, I will call all the families of the kingdoms of the north, saith the LORD; and they shall come, and they shall set every one his throne at the entering of the gates of Jerusalem, and against all the walls thereof round about, and against all the cities of Judah.

1:16    至於這民的一切惡，就是離棄我，向別神燒香，跪拜自己手所造的，我要發出我的判語，攻擊他們。
And I will utter my judgments against them touching all their wickedness, who have forsaken me, and have burned incense unto other gods, and worshipped the works of their own hands.

1:17    所以你當束腰，起來將我所吩咐你的一切話告訴他們。不要因他們驚惶，免得我使你在他們面前驚惶。
Thou therefore gird up thy loins, and arise, and speak unto them all that I command thee: be not dismayed at their faces, lest I confound thee before them.

1:18    看哪，我今日使你成為堅城，鐵柱，銅牆，與全地和猶大的君王，首領，祭司，並地上的眾民反對。
For, behold, I have made thee this day a defenced city, and an iron pillar, and brasen walls against the whole land, against the kings of Judah, against the princes thereof, against the priests thereof, and against the people of the land.

1:19    他們要攻擊你，卻不能勝你。因為我與你同在，要拯救你。這是耶和華說的。
And they shall fight against thee; but they shall not prevail against thee; for I am with thee, saith the LORD, to deliver thee.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


2:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

2:2    你去向耶路撒冷人的耳中喊叫說，耶和華如此說，你幼年的恩愛，婚姻的愛情，你怎樣在曠野，在未曾耕種之地跟隨我，我都記得。
Go and cry in the ears of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; I remember thee, the kindness of thy youth, the love of thine espousals, when thou wentest after me in the wilderness, in a land that was not sown.

2:3    那時以色列歸耶和華為聖，作為土產初熟的果子。凡吞吃它的必算為有罪，災禍必臨到他們。這是耶和華說的。
Israel was holiness unto the LORD, and the firstfruits of his increase: all that devour him shall offend; evil shall come upon them, saith the LORD.

2:4    雅各家，以色列家的各族阿，你們當聽耶和華的話。
Hear ye the word of the LORD, O house of Jacob, and all the families of the house of Israel:

2:5    耶和華如此說，你們的列祖見我有什麼不義，竟遠離我，隨從虛無的神，自己成為虛妄的呢。
Thus saith the LORD, What iniquity have your fathers found in me, that they are gone far from me, and have walked after vanity, and are become vain?

2:6    他們也不說，那領我們從埃及地上來，引導我們經過曠野，沙漠有深坑之地，和乾旱死蔭，無人經過，無人居住之地的耶和華在哪裡呢。
Neither said they, Where is the LORD that brought us up out of the land of Egypt, that led us through the wilderness, through a land of deserts and of pits, through a land of drought, and of the shadow of death, through a land that no man passed through, and where no man dwelt?

2:7    我領你們進入肥美之地，使你們得吃其中的果子和美物。但你們進入的時候就玷汙我的地，使我的產業成為可憎的。
And I brought you into a plentiful country, to eat the fruit thereof and the goodness thereof; but when ye entered, ye defiled my land, and made mine heritage an abomination.

2:8    祭司都不說，耶和華在哪裡呢。傳講律法的都不認識我。官長違揹我。先知藉巴力說預言，隨從無益的神。
The priests said not, Where is the LORD? and they that handle the law knew me not: the pastors also transgressed against me, and the prophets prophesied by Baal, and walked after things that do not profit.

2:9    耶和華說，我因此必與你們爭辯，也必與你們的子孫爭辯。
Wherefore I will yet plead with you, saith the LORD, and with your children's children will I plead.

2:10    你們且過到基提海島去察看，打發人往基達去留心查考，看曾有這樣的事沒有。
For pass over the isles of Chittim, and see; and send unto Kedar, and consider diligently, and see if there be such a thing.

2:11    豈有一國換了他的神嗎。其實這不是神。但我的百姓將他們的榮耀換了那無益的神。
Hath a nation changed their gods, which are yet no gods? but my people have changed their glory for that which doth not profit.

2:12    諸天哪，要因此驚奇，極其恐慌，甚為淒涼。這是耶和華說的。
Be astonished, O ye heavens, at this, and be horribly afraid, be ye very desolate, saith the LORD.

2:13    因為我的百姓作了兩件惡事，就是離棄我這活水的泉源，為自己鑿出池子，是破裂不能存水的池子。
For my people have committed two evils; they have forsaken me the fountain of living waters, and hewed them out cisterns, broken cisterns, that can hold no water.

2:14    以色列是僕人嗎。是家中生的奴僕嗎。為何成為掠物呢。
Is Israel a servant? is he a homeborn slave? why is he spoiled?

2:15    少壯獅子向他咆哮，大聲吼叫，使他的地荒涼。城邑也都焚燒，無人居住。
The young lions roared upon him, and yelled, and they made his land waste: his cities are burned without inhabitant.

2:16    挪弗人和答比匿人也打破你的頭頂。
Also the children of Noph and Tahapanes have broken the crown of thy head.

2:17    這事臨到你身上，不是你自招的嗎。不是因耶和華你神引你行路的時候，你離棄他嗎。
Hast thou not procured this unto thyself, in that thou hast forsaken the LORD thy God, when he led thee by the way?



2:18    現今你為何在埃及路上要喝西曷的水呢。你為何在亞述路上要喝大河的水呢。
And now what hast thou to do in the way of Egypt, to drink the waters of Sihor? or what hast thou to do in the way of Assyria, to drink the waters of the river?

2:19    你自己的惡必懲治你。你背道的事必責備你。由此可知可見，你離棄耶和華你的神，不存敬畏我的心，乃為惡事，為苦事。這是主萬軍之耶和華說的。
Thine own wickedness shall correct thee, and thy backslidings shall reprove thee: know therefore and see that it is an evil thing and bitter, that thou hast forsaken the LORD thy God, and that my fear is not in thee, saith the Lord GOD of hosts.

2:20    我在古時折斷你的軛，解開你的繩索。你說，我必不事奉耶和華。因為你在各高岡上，各青翠樹下屈身行淫。
For of old time I have broken thy yoke, and burst thy bands; and thou saidst, I will not transgress; when upon every high hill and under every green tree thou wanderest, playing the harlot.

2:21    然而，我栽你是上等的葡萄樹，全然是真種子。你怎嗎向我變為外邦葡萄樹的壞枝子呢。
Yet I had planted thee a noble vine, wholly a right seed: how then art thou turned into the degenerate plant of a strange vine unto me?

2:22    你雖用礆，多用肥皂洗濯，你罪孽的痕跡仍然在我面前顯出。這是主耶和華說的。
For though thou wash thee with nitre, and take thee much soap, yet thine iniquity is marked before me, saith the Lord GOD.

2:23    你怎能說，我沒有玷汙，沒有隨從眾巴力。你看你谷中的路，就知道你所行的如何。你是快行的獨峰駝，狂奔亂走。
How canst thou say, I am not polluted, I have not gone after Baalim? see thy way in the valley, know what thou hast done: thou art a swift dromedary traversing her ways;

2:24    你是野驢，慣在曠野，欲心發動就吸風。起性的時候誰能使它轉去呢。凡尋梢它的必不致疲乏。在它的月分必能尋見。
A wild ass used to the wilderness, that snuffeth up the wind at her pleasure; in her occasion who can turn her away? all they that seek her will not weary themselves; in her month they shall find her.

2:25    我說，你不要使腳上無鞋，喉嚨乾渴。你倒說，這是枉然。我喜愛別神，我必隨從他們。
Withhold thy foot from being unshod, and thy throat from thirst: but thou saidst, There is no hope: no; for I have loved strangers, and after them will I go.

2:26    賊被捉拿，怎樣羞愧，以色列家和他們的君王，首領，祭司，先知也都照樣羞愧。
As the thief is ashamed when he is found, so is the house of Israel ashamed; they, their kings, their princes, and their priests, and their prophets,

2:27    他們向木頭說，你是我的父。向石頭說，你是生我的。他們以背向我，不以面向我。及至遭遇患難的時候卻說，起來拯救我們。
Saying to a stock, Thou art my father; and to a stone, Thou hast brought me forth: for they have turned their back unto me, and not their face: but in the time of their trouble they will say, Arise, and save us.

2:28    你為自己作的神在哪裡呢。你遭遇患難的時候，叫他們起來拯救你吧。猶大阿，你神的數目與你城的數目相等。
But where are thy gods that thou hast made thee? let them arise, if they can save thee in the time of thy trouble: for according to the number of thy cities are thy gods, O Judah.

2:29    耶和華說，你們為何與我爭辯呢。你們都違背了我。
Wherefore will ye plead with me? ye all have transgressed against me, saith the LORD.

2:30    我責打你們的兒女是徒然的，他們不受懲治。你們自己的刀吞滅你們的先知，好像殘害的獅子。
In vain have I smitten your children; they received no correction: your own sword hath devoured your prophets, like a destroying lion.

2:31    這世代的人哪，你們要看明耶和華的話。我豈向以色列作曠野呢。或作幽暗之地呢。我的百姓為何說，我們脫離約束，再不歸向你了。
O generation, see ye the word of the LORD. Have I been a wilderness unto Israel? a land of darkness? wherefore say my people, We are lords; we will come no more unto thee?

2:32    處女豈能忘記她的妝飾呢。新婦豈能忘記她的美衣呢。我的百姓卻忘記了我無數的日子。
Can a maid forget her ornaments, or a bride her attire? yet my people have forgotten me days without number.

2:33    你怎嗎修飾你的道路要求愛情呢。就是惡劣的婦人你也叫她們行你的路。
Why trimmest thou thy way to seek love? therefore hast thou also taught the wicked ones thy ways.

2:34    並且你的衣襟上有無辜窮人的血。你殺他們並不是遇見他們挖窟窿，乃是因這一切的事。
Also in thy skirts is found the blood of the souls of the poor innocents: I have not found it by secret search, but upon all these.

2:35    你還說，我無辜。耶和華的怒氣必定向我消了。看哪，我必審問你。因你自說，我沒有犯罪。
Yet thou sayest, Because I am innocent, surely his anger shall turn from me. Behold, I will plead with thee, because thou sayest, I have not sinned.

2:36    你為何東跑西奔要更換你的路呢。你必因埃及蒙羞，像從前因亞述蒙羞一樣。
Why gaddest thou about so much to change thy way? thou also shalt be ashamed of Egypt, as thou wast ashamed of Assyria.

2:37    你也必兩手抱頭從埃及出來。因為耶和華已經棄絕你所倚靠的，你必不因他們得順利。
Yea, thou shalt go forth from him, and thine hands upon thine head: for the LORD hath rejected thy confidences, and thou shalt not prosper in them.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


3:1    有話說，人若休妻，妻離他而去，作了別人的妻，前夫豈能再收回她來。若收回她來，那地豈不是大大玷汙了嗎。但你和許多親愛的行邪淫，還可以歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
They say, If a man put away his wife, and she go from him, and become another man's, shall he return unto her again? shall not that land be greatly polluted? but thou hast played the harlot with many lovers; yet return again to me, saith the LORD.



3:2    你向淨光的高處舉目觀看，你在何處沒有淫行呢。你坐在道旁等候，好像阿拉伯人在曠野埋伏一樣，並且你的淫行邪惡玷汙了全地。
Lift up thine eyes unto the high places, and see where thou hast not been lien with. In the ways hast thou sat for them, as the Arabian in the wilderness; and thou hast polluted the land with thy whoredoms and with thy wickedness.

3:3    因此甘霖停止，春（原文作晚）雨不降。你還是有娼妓之臉，不顧羞恥。
Therefore the showers have been withholden, and there hath been no latter rain; and thou hadst a whore's forehead, thou refusedst to be ashamed.

3:4    從今以後，你豈不向我呼叫說，我父阿，你是我幼年的恩主。
Wilt thou not from this time cry unto me, My father, thou art the guide of my youth?

3:5    耶和華豈永遠懷怒，存留到底嗎。看哪，你又發惡言又行壞事，隨自己的私意而行（或作你雖這樣說還是行惡放縱慾心）。
Will he reserve his anger for ever? will he keep it to the end? Behold, thou hast spoken and done evil things as thou couldest.

3:6    約西亞王在位的時候，耶和華又對我說，背道的以色列所行的，你看見沒有。她上各高山，在各青翠樹下行淫。
The LORD said also unto me in the days of Josiah the king, Hast thou seen that which backsliding Israel hath done? she is gone up upon every high mountain and under every green tree, and there hath played the harlot.

3:7    她行這些事以後，我說她必歸向我，她卻不歸向我。她奸詐的妹妹猶大也看見了。
And I said after she had done all these things, Turn thou unto me. But she returned not. And her treacherous sister Judah saw it.

3:8    背道的以色列行淫，我為這緣故給她休書休她。我看見她奸詐的妹妹猶大，還不懼怕，也去行淫。
And I saw, when for all the causes whereby backsliding Israel committed adultery I had put her away, and given her a bill of divorce; yet her treacherous sister Judah feared not, but went and played the harlot also.

3:9    因以色列輕忽了她的淫亂，和石頭木頭行淫，地就被玷汙了。
And it came to pass through the lightness of her whoredom, that she defiled the land, and committed adultery with stones and with stocks.

3:10    雖有這一切的事，她奸詐的妹妹猶大還不一心歸向我，不過是假意歸我。這是耶和華說的。
And yet for all this her treacherous sister Judah hath not turned unto me with her whole heart, but feignedly, saith the LORD.

3:11    耶和華對我說，背道的以色列比奸詐的猶大還顯為義。
And the LORD said unto me, The backsliding Israel hath justified herself more than treacherous Judah.

3:12    你去向北方宣告說，耶和華說，背道的以色列阿，回來吧。我必不怒目看你們。因為我是慈愛的，我必不永遠存怒。這是耶和華說的。
Go and proclaim these words toward the north, and say, Return, thou backsliding Israel, saith the LORD; and I will not cause mine anger to fall upon you: for I am merciful, saith the LORD, and I will not keep anger for ever.

3:13    只要承認你的罪孽，就是你違背耶和華你的神，在各青翠樹下向別神東奔西跑，沒有聽從我的話。這是耶和華說的。
Only acknowledge thine iniquity, that thou hast transgressed against the LORD thy God, and hast scattered thy ways to the strangers under every green tree, and ye have not obeyed my voice, saith the LORD.

3:14    耶和華說，背道的兒女阿，回來吧。因為我作你們的丈夫，並且我必將你們從一城取一人，從一族取兩人，帶到錫安。
Turn, O backsliding children, saith the LORD; for I am married unto you: and I will take you one of a city, and two of a family, and I will bring you to Zion:

3:15    我也必將合我心的牧者賜給你們。他們必以知識和智慧牧養你們。
And I will give you pastors according to mine heart, which shall feed you with knowledge and understanding.

3:16    耶和華說，你們在國中生養眾多。當那些日子，人必不再提說耶和華的約櫃，不追想，不記念，不覺缺少，也不再製造。
And it shall come to pass, when ye be multiplied and increased in the land, in those days, saith the LORD, they shall say no more, The ark of the covenant of the LORD: neither shall it come to mind: neither shall they remember it; neither shall they visit it; neither shall that be done any more.

3:17    那時，人必稱耶路撒冷為耶和華的寶座。萬國必到耶路撒冷，在耶和華立名的地方聚集。他們必不再隨從自己頑梗的噁心行事。
At that time they shall call Jerusalem the throne of the LORD; and all the nations shall be gathered unto it, to the name of the LORD, to Jerusalem: neither shall they walk any more after the imagination of their evil heart.

3:18    當那些日子，猶大家要和以色列家同行，從北方之地一同來到我賜給你們列祖為業之地。
In those days the house of Judah shall walk with the house of Israel, and they shall come together out of the land of the north to the land that I have given for an inheritance unto your fathers.

3:19    我說，我怎樣將你安置在兒女之中，賜給你美地，就是萬國中肥美的產業。我又說，你們必稱我為父，也不再轉去不跟從我。
But I said, How shall I put thee among the children, and give thee a pleasant land, a goodly heritage of the hosts of nations? and I said, Thou shalt call me, My father; and shalt not turn away from me.

3:20    以色列家，你們向我行詭詐，真像妻子行詭詐離開他丈夫一樣。這是耶和華說的。
Surely as a wife treacherously departeth from her husband, so have ye dealt treacherously with me, O house of Israel, saith the LORD.

3:21    在淨光的高處聽見人聲，就是以色列人哭泣懇求之聲，乃因他們走彎曲之道，忘記耶和華他們的神。
A voice was heard upon the high places, weeping and supplications of the children of Israel: for they have perverted their way, and they have forgotten the LORD their God.

3:22    你們這背道的兒女阿，回來吧。我要醫治你們背道的病。看哪，我們來到你這裡，因你是耶和華我們的神。
Return, ye backsliding children, and I will heal your backslidings. Behold, we come unto thee; for thou art the LORD our God.

3:23    仰望從小山或從大山的喧囔中得幫助，真是枉然的。以色列得救，誠然在乎耶和華我們的神。
Truly in vain is salvation hoped for from the hills, and from the multitude of mountains: truly in the LORD our God is the salvation of Israel.

3:24    從我們幼年以來，那可恥的偶像將我們列祖所勞碌得來的羊群，牛群，和他們的兒女都吞吃了。
For shame hath devoured the labour of our fathers from our youth; their flocks and their herds, their sons and their daughters.

3:25    我們在羞恥中躺臥吧。願慚愧將我們遮蓋。因為從立國（原文作幼年）以來，我們和我們的列祖常常得罪耶和華我們的神，沒有聽從耶和華我們神的話。
We lie down in our shame, and our confusion covereth us: for we have sinned against the LORD our God, we and our fathers, from our youth even unto this day, and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD our God.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


4:1    耶和華說，以色列阿，你若回來歸向我，若從我眼前除掉你可憎的偶像，你就不被遷移。
If thou wilt return, O Israel, saith the LORD, return unto me: and if thou wilt put away thine abominations out of my sight, then shalt thou not remove.

4:2    你必憑誠實，公平，公義，指著永生的耶和華起誓。列國必因耶和華稱自己為有福，也必因他誇耀。
And thou shalt swear, The LORD liveth, in truth, in judgment, and in righteousness; and the nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory.

4:3    耶和華對猶大和耶路撒冷人如此說，要開墾你們的荒地，不要撒種在荊棘中。
For thus saith the LORD to the men of Judah and Jerusalem, Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns.

4:4    猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民哪，你們當自行割禮，歸耶和華，將心裡的汙穢除掉。恐怕我的忿怒因你們的惡行發作，如火著起，甚至無人能以熄滅。
Circumcise yourselves to the LORD, and take away the foreskins of your heart, ye men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem: lest my fury come forth like fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.

4:5    你們當傳揚在猶大，宣告在耶路撒冷說，你們當在國中吹角，高聲呼叫說，你們當聚集。我們好進入堅固城。
Declare ye in Judah, and publish in Jerusalem; and say, Blow ye the trumpet in the land: cry, gather together, and say, Assemble yourselves, and let us go into the defenced cities.

4:6    應當向錫安豎立大旗。要逃避，不要遲延，因我必使災禍與大毀滅從北方來到。
Set up the standard toward Zion: retire, stay not: for I will bring evil from the north, and a great destruction.

4:7    有獅子從密林中上來，是毀壞列國的。它已經動身出離本處，要使你的地荒涼，使你的城邑變為荒場無人居住。
The lion is come up from his thicket, and the destroyer of the Gentiles is on his way; he is gone forth from his place to make thy land desolate; and thy cities shall be laid waste, without an inhabitant.

4:8    因此，你們當腰束麻布，大聲哀號，因為耶和華的烈怒沒有向我們轉消。
For this gird you with sackcloth, lament and howl: for the fierce anger of the LORD is not turned back from us.

4:9    耶和華說，到那時，君王和首領的心都要消滅。祭司都要驚奇，先知都要詫異。
And it shall come to pass at that day, saith the LORD, that the heart of the king shall perish, and the heart of the princes; and the priests shall be astonished, and the prophets shall wonder.

4:10    我說，哀哉。主耶和華阿，你真是大大地欺哄這百姓和耶路撒冷，說，你們必得平安。其實刀劍害及性命了。
Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! surely thou hast greatly deceived this people and Jerusalem, saying, Ye shall have peace; whereas the sword reacheth unto the soul.

4:11    那時，必有話對這百姓和耶路撒冷說，有一陣熱風從曠野淨光的高處向我的眾民（原文作民女）刮來，不是為簸揚，也不是為揚淨。
At that time shall it be said to this people and to Jerusalem, A dry wind of the high places in the wilderness toward the daughter of my people, not to fan, nor to cleanse,

4:12    必有一陣更大的風從這些地方為我刮來。現在我又必發出判語，攻擊他們。
Even a full wind from those places shall come unto me: now also will I give sentence against them.

4:13    看哪，仇敵必如雲上來。他的戰車如旋風，他的馬匹比鷹更快。我們有禍了。我們敗落了。
Behold, he shall come up as clouds, and his chariots shall be as a whirlwind: his horses are swifter than eagles. Woe unto us! for we are spoiled.

4:14    耶路撒冷阿，你當洗去心中的惡，使你可以得救。惡念存在你心裡要到幾時呢。
O Jerusalem, wash thine heart from wickedness, that thou mayest be saved. How long shall thy vain thoughts lodge within thee?



4:15    有聲音從但傳揚，從以法蓮山報禍患。
For a voice declareth from Dan, and publisheth affliction from mount Ephraim.

4:16    你們當傳給列國，報告攻擊耶路撒冷的事說，有探望的人從遠方來到，向猶大的城邑大聲吶喊。
Make ye mention to the nations; behold, publish against Jerusalem, that watchers come from a far country, and give out their voice against the cities of Judah.

4:17    他們周圍攻擊耶路撒冷，好像看守田園的，因為她背叛了我。這是耶和華說的。
As keepers of a field, are they against her round about; because she hath been rebellious against me, saith the LORD.

4:18    你的行動，你的作為，招惹這事。這是你罪惡的結果，實在是苦，是害及你心了。
Thy way and thy doings have procured these things unto thee; this is thy wickedness, because it is bitter, because it reacheth unto thine heart.

4:19    我的肺腑阿，我的肺腑阿，我心疼痛。我心在我裡面煩躁不安。我不能靜默不言，因為我已經聽見角聲和打仗的喊聲。
My bowels, my bowels! I am pained at my very heart; my heart maketh a noise in me; I cannot hold my peace, because thou hast heard, O my soul, the sound of the trumpet, the alarm of war.

4:20    毀壞的資訊連絡不絕，因為全地荒廢。我的帳棚忽然毀壞。我的幔子頃刻破裂。
Destruction upon destruction is cried; for the whole land is spoiled: suddenly are my tents spoiled, and my curtains in a moment.

4:21    我看見大旗，聽見角聲，要到幾時呢。
How long shall I see the standard, and hear the sound of the trumpet?

4:22    耶和華說，我的百性愚頑，不認識我。他們是愚昧無知的兒女，有智慧行惡，沒有知識行善。
For my people is foolish, they have not known me; they are sottish children, and they have none understanding: they are wise to do evil, but to do good they have no knowledge.

4:23    先知說，我觀看地，不料，地是空虛混沌。我觀看天，天也無光。
I beheld the earth, and, lo, it was without form, and void; and the heavens, and they had no light.

4:24    我觀看大山，不料，盡都震動，小山也都搖來搖去。
I beheld the mountains, and, lo, they trembled, and all the hills moved lightly.

4:25    我觀看，不料，無人。空中的飛鳥也都躲避。
I beheld, and, lo, there was no man, and all the birds of the heavens were fled.

4:26    我觀看，不料，肥田變為荒地。一切城邑在耶和華面前，因他的烈怒都被拆毀。
I beheld, and, lo, the fruitful place was a wilderness, and all the cities thereof were broken down at the presence of the LORD, and by his fierce anger.

4:27    耶和華如此說，全地必然荒涼，我卻不毀滅淨盡。
For thus hath the LORD said, The whole land shall be desolate; yet will I not make a full end.

4:28    因此，地要悲哀，在上的天也必黑暗。因為我言已出，我意已定，必不後悔，也不轉意不作。
For this shall the earth mourn, and the heavens above be black: because I have spoken it, I have purposed it, and will not repent, neither will I turn back from it.

4:29    各城的人因馬兵和弓箭手的響聲就都逃跑，進入密林，爬上磐石。各城被撇下，無人住在其中。
The whole city shall flee for the noise of the horsemen and bowmen; they shall go into thickets, and climb up upon the rocks: every city shall be forsaken, and not a man dwell therein.

4:30    你淒涼的時候要怎樣行呢。你雖穿上硃紅衣服，佩戴黃金裝飾，用顏料修飾眼目，這樣標緻是枉然的。戀愛你的藐視你，並且尋索你的性命。
And when thou art spoiled, what wilt thou do? Though thou clothest thyself with crimson, though thou deckest thee with ornaments of gold, though thou rentest thy face with painting, in vain shalt thou make thyself fair; thy lovers will despise thee, they will seek thy life.

4:31    我聽見有聲音，彷佛婦人產難的聲音，好像生頭胎疼痛的聲音，是錫安女子（女子就是指民的意思）的聲音。她喘著氣，？？挲手，說，我有禍了。在殺人的跟前，我的心發昏了。
For I have heard a voice as of a woman in travail, and the anguish as of her that bringeth forth her first child, the voice of the daughter of Zion, that bewaileth herself, that spreadeth her hands, saying, Woe is me now! for my soul is wearied because of murderers.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


5:1    你們當在耶路撒冷的街上跑來跑去，在寬闊處尋梢，看看有一人行公義求誠實沒有。若有，我就赦免這城。
Run ye to and fro through the streets of Jerusalem, and see now, and know, and seek in the broad places thereof, if ye can find a man, if there be any that executeth judgment, that seeketh the truth; and I will pardon it.

5:2    其中的人雖然指著永生的耶和華起誓，所起的誓實在是假的。
And though they say, The LORD liveth; surely they swear falsely.

5:3    耶和華阿，你的眼目不是看顧誠實嗎。你擊打他們，他們卻不傷慟。你毀滅他們，他們仍不受懲治。他們使臉剛硬過於磐石，不肯回頭。
O LORD, are not thine eyes upon the truth? thou hast stricken them, but they have not grieved; thou hast consumed them, but they have refused to receive correction: they have made their faces harder than a rock; they have refused to return.

5:4    我說，這些人實在是貧窮的，是愚昧的，因為不曉得耶和華的作為和他們神的法則。
Therefore I said, Surely these are poor; they are foolish: for they know not the way of the LORD, nor the judgment of their God.

5:5    我要去見尊大的人，對他們說話，因為他們曉得耶和華的作為和他們神的法則。哪知，這些人齊心將軛折斷，掙開繩索。
I will get me unto the great men, and will speak unto them; for they have known the way of the LORD, and the judgment of their God: but these have altogether broken the yoke, and burst the bonds.

5:6    因此，林中的獅子必害死他們。晚上（或作野地）的豺狼必滅絕他們。豹子要在城外窺伺他們。凡出城的必被撕碎。因為他們的罪過極多，背道的事也加增了。
Wherefore a lion out of the forest shall slay them, and a wolf of the evenings shall spoil them, a leopard shall watch over their cities: every one that goeth out thence shall be torn in pieces: because their transgressions are many, and their backslidings are increased.

5:7    我怎能赦免你呢。你的兒女離棄我，又指著那不是神的起誓。我使他們飽足，他們就行姦淫，成群地聚集在娼妓家裡。
How shall I pardon thee for this? thy children have forsaken me, and sworn by them that are no gods: when I had fed them to the full, they then committed adultery, and assembled themselves by troops in the harlots' houses.

5:8    他們像餵飽的馬到處亂跑，各向他鄰舍的妻發嘶聲。
They were as fed horses in the morning: every one neighed after his neighbour's wife.

5:9    耶和華說，我豈不因這些事討罪呢。豈不報復這樣的國民呢。
Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: and shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

5:10    你們要上她葡萄園的牆施行毀壞，但不可毀壞淨盡，只可除掉她的枝子，因為不屬耶和華。
Go ye up upon her walls, and destroy; but make not a full end: take away her battlements; for they are not the LORD's.

5:11    原來以色列家和猶大家大行詭詐攻擊我。這是耶和華說的。
For the house of Israel and the house of Judah have dealt very treacherously against me, saith the LORD.

5:12    他們不認耶和華，說，這並不是他，災禍必不臨到我們。刀劍和饑荒，我們也看不見。
They have belied the LORD, and said, It is not he; neither shall evil come upon us; neither shall we see sword nor famine:

5:13    先知的話必成為風。道也不在他們裡面。這災必臨到他們身上。
And the prophets shall become wind, and the word is not in them: thus shall it be done unto them.

5:14    所以耶和華萬軍之神如此說，因為百姓說這話，我必使我的話在你口中為火，使他們為柴。這火便將他們燒滅。
Wherefore thus saith the LORD God of hosts, Because ye speak this word, behold, I will make my words in thy mouth fire, and this people wood, and it shall devour them.

5:15    耶和華說，以色列家阿，我必使一國的民從遠方來攻擊你，是強盛的國，是從古而有的國。他們的言語你不曉得，他們的話你不明白。
Lo, I will bring a nation upon you from far, O house of Israel, saith the LORD: it is a mighty nation, it is an ancient nation, a nation whose language thou knowest not, neither understandest what they say.

5:16    他們的箭袋是敞開的墳墓。他們都是勇士。
Their quiver is as an open sepulchre, they are all mighty men.

5:17    他們必吃盡你的莊稼和你的糧食，是你兒女該吃的。必吃盡你的牛羊，吃盡你的葡萄和無花果。又必用刀毀壞你所倚靠的堅固城。
And they shall eat up thine harvest, and thy bread, which thy sons and thy daughters should eat: they shall eat up thy flocks and thine herds: they shall eat up thy vines and thy fig trees: they shall impoverish thy fenced cities, wherein thou trustedst, with the sword.

5:18    耶和華說，就是到那時，我也不將你們毀滅淨盡。
Nevertheless in those days, saith the LORD, I will not make a full end with you.

5:19    百姓若說，耶和華我們的神為什麼向我們行這一切事呢。你就對他們說，你們怎樣離棄耶和華（原文作我），在你們的地上事奉外邦神，也必照樣在不屬你們的地上事奉外邦人。
And it shall come to pass, when ye shall say, Wherefore doeth the LORD our God all these things unto us? then shalt thou answer them, Like as ye have forsaken me, and served strange gods in your land, so shall ye serve strangers in a land that is not yours.

5:20    當傳揚在雅各家，報告在猶大說，
Declare this in the house of Jacob, and publish it in Judah, saying,

5:21    愚昧無知的百姓阿，你們有眼不看，有耳不聽，現在當聽這話。
Hear now this, O foolish people, and without understanding; which have eyes, and see not; which have ears, and hear not:

5:22    耶和華說，你們怎嗎不懼怕我呢。我以永遠的定例，用沙為海的界限，水不得越過。因此，你們在我面前還不戰兢嗎。波浪雖然翻騰，卻不能逾越。雖然？？訇，卻不能過去。
Fear ye not me? saith the LORD: will ye not tremble at my presence, which have placed the sand for the bound of the sea by a perpetual decree, that it cannot pass it: and though the waves thereof toss themselves, yet can they not prevail; though they roar, yet can they not pass over it?

5:23    但這百姓有背叛忤逆的心。他們叛我而去，
But this people hath a revolting and a rebellious heart; they are revolted and gone.

5:24    心內也不說，我們應當敬畏耶和華我們的神。他按時賜雨，就是秋雨春雨，又為我們定收割的節令，永存不廢。
Neither say they in their heart, Let us now fear the LORD our God, that giveth rain, both the former and the latter, in his season: he reserveth unto us the appointed weeks of the harvest.

5:25    你們的罪孽使這些事轉離你們。你們的罪惡使你們不能得福。
Your iniquities have turned away these things, and your sins have withholden good things from you.

5:26    因為在我民中有惡人。他們埋伏窺探，好像捕鳥的人。他們設立圈套陷害人。
For among my people are found wicked men: they lay wait, as he that setteth snares; they set a trap, they catch men.

5:27    籠內怎樣滿了雀鳥，他們的房中也照樣充滿詭詐。所以他們得成為大，而且富足。
As a cage is full of birds, so are their houses full of deceit: therefore they are become great, and waxen rich.

5:28    他們肥胖光潤，作惡過甚，不為人伸冤。就是不為孤兒伸冤，不使他亨通，也不為窮人辨屈。
They are waxen fat, they shine: yea, they overpass the deeds of the wicked: they judge not the cause, the cause of the fatherless, yet they prosper; and the right of the needy do they not judge.

5:29    耶和華說，我豈不因這些事討罪呢。豈不報復這樣的國民呢。
Shall I not visit for these things? saith the LORD: shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

5:30    國中有可驚駭，可憎惡的事，
A wonderful and horrible thing is committed in the land;

5:31    就是先知說假預言，祭司藉他們把持權柄。我的百姓也喜愛這些事，到了結局你們怎樣行呢。
The prophets prophesy falsely, and the priests bear rule by their means; and my people love to have it so: and what will ye do in the end thereof?




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


6:1    便雅憫人哪，你們要逃出耶路撒冷，在提哥亞吹角，在伯哈基琳立號旗。因為有災禍與大毀滅從北方張望。
O ye children of Benjamin, gather yourselves to flee out of the midst of Jerusalem, and blow the trumpet in Tekoa, and set up a sign of fire in Bethhaccerem: for evil appeareth out of the north, and great destruction.

6:2    那秀美嬌嫩的錫安女子（女子就是指民的意思），我必剪除。
I have likened the daughter of Zion to a comely and delicate woman.

6:3    牧人必引他們的羊群到她那裡，在她周圍支搭帳棚，各在自己所佔之地使羊吃草。
The shepherds with their flocks shall come unto her; they shall pitch their tents against her round about; they shall feed every one in his place.

6:4    你們要準備攻擊她。起來吧，我們可以趁午時上去。哀哉。日已漸斜，晚影拖長了。
Prepare ye war against her; arise, and let us go up at noon. Woe unto us! for the day goeth away, for the shadows of the evening are stretched out.

6:5    起來吧，我們夜間上去，毀壞她的宮殿。
Arise, and let us go by night, and let us destroy her palaces.

6:6    因為萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們要砍伐樹木，築壘攻打耶路撒冷。這就是那該罰的城，其中盡是欺壓。
For thus hath the LORD of hosts said, Hew ye down trees, and cast a mount against Jerusalem: this is the city to be visited; she is wholly oppression in the midst of her.

6:7    井怎樣湧出水來，這城也照樣湧出惡來。在其間常聽見有強暴毀滅的事，病患損傷也常在我面前。
As a fountain casteth out her waters, so she casteth out her wickedness: violence and spoil is heard in her; before me continually is grief and wounds.

6:8    耶路撒冷阿，你當受教，免得我心與你生疏，免得我使你荒涼，成為無人居住之地。
Be thou instructed, O Jerusalem, lest my soul depart from thee; lest I make thee desolate, a land not inhabited.

6:9    萬軍之耶和華曾如此說，敵人必擄盡以色列剩下的民，如同摘淨葡萄一樣。你要像摘葡萄的人摘了又摘，回手放在筐子裡。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall throughly glean the remnant of Israel as a vine: turn back thine hand as a grapegatherer into the baskets.

6:10    現在我可以向誰說話作見證，使他們聽呢。他們的耳朵未受割禮，不能聽見。看哪，耶和華的話他們以為羞辱，不以為喜悅。
To whom shall I speak, and give warning, that they may hear? behold, their ear is uncircumcised, and they cannot hearken: behold, the word of the LORD is unto them a reproach; they have no delight in it.

6:11    因此我被耶和華的忿怒充滿，難以含忍。我要傾在街中的孩童和聚會的少年人身上，連夫帶妻，並年老的與日子滿足的都必被擒拿。
Therefore I am full of the fury of the LORD; I am weary with holding in: I will pour it out upon the children abroad, and upon the assembly of young men together: for even the husband with the wife shall be taken, the aged with him that is full of days.

6:12    他們的房屋，田地，和妻子都必轉歸別人。我要伸手攻擊這地的居民。這是耶和華說的。
And their houses shall be turned unto others, with their fields and wives together: for I will stretch out my hand upon the inhabitants of the land, saith the LORD.

6:13    因為他們從最小的到至大的都一味地貪婪，從先知到祭司都行事虛謊。
For from the least of them even unto the greatest of them every one is given to covetousness; and from the prophet even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely.

6:14    他們輕輕忽忽地醫治我百姓的損傷，說，平安了。平安了。其實沒有平安。
They have healed also the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.

6:15    他們行可憎的事知道慚愧嗎。不然，他們毫不慚愧，也不知羞恥。因此，他們必在仆倒的人中仆倒。我向他們討罪的時候，他們必致跌倒。這是耶和華說的。
Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore they shall fall among them that fall: at the time that I visit them they shall be cast down, saith the LORD.

6:16    耶和華如此說，你們當站在路上察看，訪問古道，哪是善道，便行在其間。這樣，你們心裡必得安息。他們卻說，我們不行在其間。
Thus saith the LORD, Stand ye in the ways, and see, and ask for the old paths, where is the good way, and walk therein, and ye shall find rest for your souls. But they said, We will not walk therein.

6:17    我設立守望的人照管你們，說，要聽角聲。他們卻說，我們不聽。
Also I set watchmen over you, saying, Hearken to the sound of the trumpet. But they said, We will not hearken.

6:18    列國阿，因此你們當聽。會眾阿，要知道他們必遭遇的事。
Therefore hear, ye nations, and know, O congregation, what is among them.

6:19    地阿，當聽。我必使災禍臨到這百姓，就是他們意念所結的果子。因為他們不聽從我的言語，至於我的訓誨（或作律法），他們也厭棄了。
Hear, O earth: behold, I will bring evil upon this people, even the fruit of their thoughts, because they have not hearkened unto my words, nor to my law, but rejected it.

6:20    從示巴出的乳香，從遠方出的菖蒲（或作甘蔗）奉來給我有何益呢。你們的燔祭不蒙悅納。你們的平安祭，我也不喜悅。
To what purpose cometh there to me incense from Sheba, and the sweet cane from a far country? your burnt offerings are not acceptable, nor your sacrifices sweet unto me.

6:21    所以耶和華如此說，我要將絆腳石放在這百姓前面。父親和兒子要一同跌在其上。鄰舍與朋友也都滅亡。
Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will lay stumblingblocks before this people, and the fathers and the sons together shall fall upon them; the neighbour and his friend shall perish.

6:22    耶和華如此說，看哪，有一種民從北方而來，並有一大國被激動，從地極來到。
Thus saith the LORD, Behold, a people cometh from the north country, and a great nation shall be raised from the sides of the earth.

6:23    他們拿弓和槍，性情殘忍，不施憐憫。他們的聲音像海浪？？訇。錫安城（原文作女子）阿，他們騎馬都擺隊伍，如上戰場的人要攻擊你。
They shall lay hold on bow and spear; they are cruel, and have no mercy; their voice roareth like the sea; and they ride upon horses, set in array as men for war against thee, O daughter of Zion.

6:24    我們聽見他們的風聲，手就發軟。痛苦將我們抓住，疼痛彷佛產難的婦人。
We have heard the fame thereof: our hands wax feeble: anguish hath taken hold of us, and pain, as of a woman in travail.

6:25    你們不要往田野去，也不要行在路上，因四圍有仇敵的刀劍和驚嚇。
Go not forth into the field, nor walk by the way; for the sword of the enemy and fear is on every side.

6:26    我民（原文作民女）哪，應當腰束麻布，滾在灰中。你要悲傷，如喪獨生子痛痛哭號，因為滅命的要忽然臨到我們。
O daughter of my people, gird thee with sackcloth, and wallow thyself in ashes: make thee mourning, as for an only son, most bitter lamentation: for the spoiler shall suddenly come upon us.

6:27    我使你在我民中為高臺（高臺或作試驗人的），為保障，使你知道試驗他們的行動。
I have set thee for a tower and a fortress among my people, that thou mayest know and try their way.

6:28    他們都是極悖逆的，往來讒謗人。他們是銅是鐵，都行壞事。
They are all grievous revolters, walking with slanders: they are brass and iron; they are all corrupters.

6:29    風箱吹火，鉛被燒燬。他們煉而又煉，終是徒然。因為惡劣的還未除掉。
The bellows are burned, the lead is consumed of the fire; the founder melteth in vain: for the wicked are not plucked away.

6:30    人必稱他們為被棄的銀渣，因為耶和華已經棄掉他們。
Reprobate silver shall men call them, because the LORD hath rejected them.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


7:1    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

7:2    你當站在耶和華殿的門口，在那裡宣傳這話說，你們進這些門敬拜耶和華的一切猶大人，當聽耶和華的話。
Stand in the gate of the LORD's house, and proclaim there this word, and say, Hear the word of the LORD, all ye of Judah, that enter in at these gates to worship the LORD.

7:3    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們改正行動作為，我就使你們在這地方仍然居住。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Amend your ways and your doings, and I will cause you to dwell in this place.

7:4    你們不要倚靠虛謊的話，說，這些是耶和華的殿，是耶和華的殿，是耶和華的殿。
Trust ye not in lying words, saying, The temple of the LORD, The temple of the LORD, The temple of the LORD, are these.

7:5    你們若實在改正行動作為，在人和鄰舍中間誠然施行公平，
For if ye throughly amend your ways and your doings; if ye throughly execute judgment between a man and his neighbour;

7:6    不欺壓寄居的和孤兒寡婦。在這地方不流無辜人的血，也不隨從別神陷害自己。
If ye oppress not the stranger, the fatherless, and the widow, and shed not innocent blood in this place, neither walk after other gods to your hurt:

7:7    我就使你們在這地方仍然居住，就是我古時所賜給你們列祖的地，直到永遠。
Then will I cause you to dwell in this place, in the land that I gave to your fathers, for ever and ever.

7:8    看哪，你們倚靠虛謊無益的話。
Behold, ye trust in lying words, that cannot profit.

7:9    你們偷盜，殺害，姦淫，起假誓，向巴力燒香，並隨從素不認識的別神，
Will ye steal, murder, and commit adultery, and swear falsely, and burn incense unto Baal, and walk after other gods whom ye know not;

7:10    且來到這稱為我名下的殿，在我面前敬拜。又說，我們可以自由了。你們這樣的舉動是要行那些可憎的事嗎。
And come and stand before me in this house, which is called by my name, and say, We are delivered to do all these abominations?

7:11    這稱為我名下的殿在你們眼中豈可看為賊窩嗎。我都看見了。這是耶和華說的。
Is this house, which is called by my name, become a den of robbers in your eyes? Behold, even I have seen it, saith the LORD.

7:12    你們且往示羅去，就是我先前立為我名的居所，察看我因這百姓以色列的罪惡向那地所行的如何。
But go ye now unto my place which was in Shiloh, where I set my name at the first, and see what I did to it for the wickedness of my people Israel.

7:13    耶和華說，現在因你們行了這一切的事，我也從早起來警戒你們，你們卻不聽從。呼喚你們，你們卻不答應。
And now, because ye have done all these works, saith the LORD, and I spake unto you, rising up early and speaking, but ye heard not; and I called you, but ye answered not;

7:14    所以我要向這稱我為名下，你們所倚靠的殿，與我所賜給你們和你們列祖的地施行，照我從前向示羅所行的一樣。
Therefore will I do unto this house, which is called by my name, wherein ye trust, and unto the place which I gave to you and to your fathers, as I have done to Shiloh.

7:15    我必將你們從我眼前趕出，正如趕出你們的眾弟兄，就是以法蓮的一切後裔。
And I will cast you out of my sight, as I have cast out all your brethren, even the whole seed of Ephraim.

7:16    所以，你不要為這百姓祈禱。不要為他們呼求禱告，也不要向我為他們祈求，因我不聽允你。
Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up cry nor prayer for them, neither make intercession to me: for I will not hear thee.

7:17    他們在猶大城邑中和耶路撒冷街上所行的，你沒有看見嗎。
Seest thou not what they do in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem?

7:18    孩子撿柴，父親燒火，婦女摶面作餅，獻給天后，又向別神澆奠祭，惹我發怒。
The children gather wood, and the fathers kindle the fire, and the women knead their dough, to make cakes to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto other gods, that they may provoke me to anger.

7:19    耶和華說，他們豈是惹我發怒呢。不是自己惹禍，以致臉上慚愧嗎。
Do they provoke me to anger? saith the LORD: do they not provoke themselves to the confusion of their own faces?

7:20    所以主耶和華如此說，看哪，我必將我的怒氣和忿怒傾在這地方的人和牲畜身上，並田野的樹木和地裡的出產上，必如火著起，不能熄滅。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, mine anger and my fury shall be poured out upon this place, upon man, and upon beast, and upon the trees of the field, and upon the fruit of the ground; and it shall burn, and shall not be quenched.

7:21    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們將燔祭加在平安祭上，吃肉吧。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Put your burnt offerings unto your sacrifices, and eat flesh.

7:22    因為我將你們列祖從埃及地領出來的那日，燔祭平安祭的事我並沒有提說，也沒有吩咐他們。
For I spake not unto your fathers, nor commanded them in the day that I brought them out of the land of Egypt, concerning burnt offerings or sacrifices:

7:23    我只吩咐他們這一件說，你們當聽從我的話，我就作你們的神，你們也作我的子民。你們行我所吩咐的一切道，就可以得福。
But this thing commanded I them, saying, Obey my voice, and I will be your God, and ye shall be my people: and walk ye in all the ways that I have commanded you, that it may be well unto you.

7:24    他們卻不聽從，不側耳而聽，竟隨從自己的計謀和頑梗的噁心，向後不向前。
But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear, but walked in the counsels and in the imagination of their evil heart, and went backward, and not forward.

7:25    自從你們列祖出埃及地的那日，直到今日，我差遣我的僕人眾先知到你們那裡去，每日從早起來差遣他們。
Since the day that your fathers came forth out of the land of Egypt unto this day I have even sent unto you all my servants the prophets, daily rising up early and sending them:

7:26    你們卻不聽從，不側耳而聽，竟硬著頸項行惡，比你們列祖更甚。
Yet they hearkened not unto me, nor inclined their ear, but hardened their neck: they did worse than their fathers.

7:27    你要將這一切的話告訴他們，他們卻不聽從。呼喚他們，他們卻不答應。
Therefore thou shalt speak all these words unto them; but they will not hearken to thee: thou shalt also call unto them; but they will not answer thee.

7:28    你要對他們說，這就是不聽從耶和華他們神的話，不受教訓的國民。從他們的口中，誠實滅絕了。
But thou shalt say unto them, This is a nation that obeyeth not the voice of the LORD their God, nor receiveth correction: truth is perished, and is cut off from their mouth.

7:29    耶路撒冷阿，要剪髮拋棄，在淨光的高處舉哀。因為耶和華丟掉離棄了惹他忿怒的世代。
Cut off thine hair, O Jerusalem, and cast it away, and take up a lamentation on high places; for the LORD hath rejected and forsaken the generation of his wrath.

7:30    耶和華說，猶大人行我眼中看為惡的事，將可憎之物設立在稱為我名下的殿中，汙穢這殿。
For the children of Judah have done evil in my sight, saith the LORD: they have set their abominations in the house which is called by my name, to pollute it.

7:31    他們在欣嫩子谷建築陀斐特的邱壇，好在火中焚燒自己的兒女。這並不是我所吩咐的，也不是我心所起的意。
And they have built the high places of Tophet, which is in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to burn their sons and their daughters in the fire; which I commanded them not, neither came it into my heart.

7:32    耶和華說，因此，日子將到，這地方不再稱為陀斐特和欣嫩子谷，反倒稱為殺戮谷。因為要在陀斐特葬埋屍首，甚至無處可葬。
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it shall no more be called Tophet, nor the valley of the son of Hinnom, but the valley of slaughter: for they shall bury in Tophet, till there be no place.

7:33    並且這百姓的屍首必給空中的飛鳥和地上的野獸作食物，並無人哄趕。
And the carcases of this people shall be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and for the beasts of the earth; and none shall fray them away.

7:34    那時，我必使猶大城邑中和耶路撒冷街上，歡喜和快樂的聲音，新郎和新婦的聲音，都止息了，因為地必成為荒場。
Then will I cause to cease from the cities of Judah, and from the streets of Jerusalem, the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride: for the land shall be desolate.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


8:1    耶和華說，到那時，人必將猶大王的骸骨和他首領的骸骨，祭司的骸骨，先知的骸骨，並耶路撒冷居民的骸骨，都從墳墓中取出來，
At that time, saith the LORD, they shall bring out the bones of the kings of Judah, and the bones of his princes, and the bones of the priests, and the bones of the prophets, and the bones of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, out of their graves:

8:2    拋散在日頭，月亮，和天上眾星之下，就是他們從前所喜愛，所事奉，所隨從，所求問，所敬拜的。這些骸骨不再收殮，不再葬埋，必在地面上成為糞土。
And they shall spread them before the sun, and the moon, and all the host of heaven, whom they have loved, and whom they have served, and after whom they have walked, and whom they have sought, and whom they have worshipped: they shall not be gathered, nor be buried; they shall be for dung upon the face of the earth.

8:3    並且這惡族所剩下的民在我所趕他們到的各處，寧可揀死不揀生。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
And death shall be chosen rather than life by all the residue of them that remain of this evil family, which remain in all the places whither I have driven them, saith the LORD of hosts.

8:4    你要對他們說，耶和華如此說，人跌倒，不再起來嗎。人轉去，不再轉來嗎。
Moreover thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; Shall they fall, and not arise? shall he turn away, and not return?

8:5    這耶路撒冷的民，為何恆久背道呢。他們守定詭詐，不肯回頭。
Why then is this people of Jerusalem slidden back by a perpetual backsliding? they hold fast deceit, they refuse to return.

8:6    我留心聽，聽見他們說不正直的話。無人悔改惡行，說，我作的是什麼呢。他們各人轉奔己路，如馬直闖戰場。
I hearkened and heard, but they spake not aright: no man repented him of his wickedness, saying, What have I done? every one turned to his course, as the horse rusheth into the battle.

8:7    空中的鸛鳥知道來去的定期。斑鳩燕子與白鶴也守候當來的時令。我的百姓卻不知道耶和華的法則。
Yea, the stork in the heaven knoweth her appointed times; and the turtle and the crane and the swallow observe the time of their coming; but my people know not the judgment of the LORD.

8:8    你們怎嗎說，我們有智慧，耶和華的律法在我們這裡。看哪，文士的假筆舞弄虛假。
How do ye say, We are wise, and the law of the LORD is with us? Lo, certainly in vain made he it; the pen of the scribes is in vain.

8:9    智慧人慚愧，驚惶，被擒拿。他們棄掉耶和華的話，心裡還有什麼智慧呢。
The wise men are ashamed, they are dismayed and taken: lo, they have rejected the word of the LORD; and what wisdom is in them?



8:10    所以我必將他們的妻子給別人，將他們的田地給別人為業。因為他們從最小的到至大的都一味地貪婪，從先知到祭司都行事虛謊。
Therefore will I give their wives unto others, and their fields to them that shall inherit them: for every one from the least even unto the greatest is given to covetousness, from the prophet even unto the priest every one dealeth falsely.

8:11    他們輕輕忽忽地醫治我百姓的損傷，說，平安了。平安了。其實沒有平安。
For they have healed the hurt of the daughter of my people slightly, saying, Peace, peace; when there is no peace.

8:12    他們行可憎的事知道慚愧嗎。不然，他們毫不慚愧，也不知羞恥。因此他們必在仆倒的人中仆倒。我向他們討罪的時候，他們必致跌倒。這是耶和華說的。
Were they ashamed when they had committed abomination? nay, they were not at all ashamed, neither could they blush: therefore shall they fall among them that fall: in the time of their visitation they shall be cast down, saith the LORD.

8:13    耶和華說，我必使他們全然滅絕。葡萄樹上必沒有葡萄，無花果樹上必沒有果子，葉子也必枯乾。我所賜給他們的，必離開他們過去。
I will surely consume them, saith the LORD: there shall be no grapes on the vine, nor figs on the fig tree, and the leaf shall fade; and the things that I have given them shall pass away from them.

8:14    我們為何靜坐不動呢。我們當聚集，進入堅固城，在那裡靜默不言。因為耶和華我們的神使我們靜默不言，又將苦膽水給我們喝，都因我們得罪了耶和華。
Why do we sit still? assemble yourselves, and let us enter into the defenced cities, and let us be silent there: for the LORD our God hath put us to silence, and given us water of gall to drink, because we have sinned against the LORD.

8:15    我們指望平安，卻得不著好處。指望痊癒的時候，不料，受了驚惶。
We looked for peace, but no good came; and for a time of health, and behold trouble!

8:16    聽見從但那裡敵人的馬噴鼻氣，他的壯馬發嘶聲，全地就都震動。因為他們來吞滅這地和其上所有的，吞滅這城與其中的居民。
The snorting of his horses was heard from Dan: the whole land trembled at the sound of the neighing of his strong ones; for they are come, and have devoured the land, and all that is in it; the city, and those that dwell therein.

8:17    看哪，我必使毒蛇到你們中間，是不服法術的，必咬你們。這是耶和華說的。
For, behold, I will send serpents, cockatrices, among you, which will not be charmed, and they shall bite you, saith the LORD.

8:18    我有憂愁，願能自慰。我心在我裡面發昏。
When I would comfort myself against sorrow, my heart is faint in me.

8:19    聽阿，是我百姓的哀聲從極遠之地而來，說，耶和華不在錫安嗎。錫安的王不在其中嗎。耶和華說，他們為什麼以雕刻的偶像和外邦虛無的神惹我發怒呢。
Behold the voice of the cry of the daughter of my people because of them that dwell in a far country: Is not the LORD in Zion? is not her king in her? Why have they provoked me to anger with their graven images, and with strange vanities?

8:20    麥秋已過，夏令已完，我們還未得救。
The harvest is past, the summer is ended, and we are not saved.

8:21    先知說，因我百姓的損傷，我也受了損傷。我哀痛，驚惶將我抓住。
For the hurt of the daughter of my people am I hurt; I am black; astonishment hath taken hold on me.

8:22    在基列豈沒有乳香呢。在那裡豈沒有醫生呢。我百姓為何不得痊癒呢。
Is there no balm in Gilead; is there no physician there? why then is not the health of the daughter of my people recovered?




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


9:1    但願我的頭為水，我的眼為淚的泉源，我好為我百姓（原文作民女。七節同）中被殺的人晝夜哭泣。
Oh that my head were waters, and mine eyes a fountain of tears, that I might weep day and night for the slain of the daughter of my people!

9:2    惟願我在曠野有行路人住宿之處，使我可以離開我的民出去。因他們都是行姦淫的，是行詭詐的一黨。
Oh that I had in the wilderness a lodging place of wayfaring men; that I might leave my people, and go from them! for they be all adulterers, an assembly of treacherous men.

9:3    他們彎起舌頭像弓一樣，為要說謊話。他們在國中增長勢力，不是為行誠實，乃是惡上加惡，並不認識我。這是耶和華說的。
And they bend their tongues like their bow for lies: but they are not valiant for the truth upon the earth; for they proceed from evil to evil, and they know not me, saith the LORD.

9:4    你們各人當謹防鄰舍，不可信靠弟兄。因為弟兄盡行欺騙，鄰舍都往來讒謗人。
Take ye heed every one of his neighbour, and trust ye not in any brother: for every brother will utterly supplant, and every neighbour will walk with slanders.

9:5    他們各人欺哄鄰舍，不說真話。他們教舌頭學習說謊，勞勞碌碌地作孽。
And they will deceive every one his neighbour, and will not speak the truth: they have taught their tongue to speak lies, and weary themselves to commit iniquity.

9:6    你的住處在詭詐的人中。他們因行詭詐，不肯認識我。這是耶和華說的。
Thine habitation is in the midst of deceit; through deceit they refuse to know me, saith the LORD.

9:7    所以萬軍之耶和華如此說，看哪，我要將他們融化熬煉。不然，我因我百姓的罪該怎樣行呢。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, I will melt them, and try them; for how shall I do for the daughter of my people?

9:8    他們的舌頭是毒箭，說話詭詐。人與鄰舍口說和平話，心卻謀害他。
Their tongue is as an arrow shot out; it speaketh deceit: one speaketh peaceably to his neighbour with his mouth, but in heart he layeth his wait.

9:9    耶和華說，我豈不因這些事討他們的罪呢。豈不報復這樣的國民呢。
Shall I not visit them for these things? saith the LORD: shall not my soul be avenged on such a nation as this?

9:10    我要為山嶺哭泣悲哀，為曠野的草場揚聲哀號。因為都已乾焦，甚至無人經過。人也聽不見牲畜嗚叫，空中的飛鳥和地上的野獸都已逃去。
For the mountains will I take up a weeping and wailing, and for the habitations of the wilderness a lamentation, because they are burned up, so that none can pass through them; neither can men hear the voice of the cattle; both the fowl of the heavens and the beast are fled; they are gone.

9:11    我必使耶路撒冷變為亂堆，為野狗的住處，也必使猶大的城邑變為荒場，無人居住。
And I will make Jerusalem heaps, and a den of dragons; and I will make the cities of Judah desolate, without an inhabitant.

9:12    誰是智慧人，可以明白這事。耶和華的口向誰說過，使他可以傳說。遍地為何滅亡，乾焦好像曠野，甚至無人經過呢。
Who is the wise man, that may understand this? and who is he to whom the mouth of the LORD hath spoken, that he may declare it, for what the land perisheth and is burned up like a wilderness, that none passeth through?

9:13    耶和華說，因為這百姓離棄我，在他們面前所設立的律法沒有遵行，也沒有聽從我的話。
And the LORD saith, Because they have forsaken my law which I set before them, and have not obeyed my voice, neither walked therein;

9:14    只隨從自己頑梗的心行事，照他們列祖所教訓的隨從眾巴力。
But have walked after the imagination of their own heart, and after Baalim, which their fathers taught them:

9:15    所以萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，看哪，我必將茵？？給這百姓吃，又將苦膽水給他們喝。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will feed them, even this people, with wormwood, and give them water of gall to drink.

9:16    我要把他們散在列邦中，就是他們和他們列祖素不認識的列邦。我也要使刀劍追殺他們，直到將他們滅盡。
I will scatter them also among the heathen, whom neither they nor their fathers have known: and I will send a sword after them, till I have consumed them.

9:17    萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們應當思想，將善唱哀歌的婦女召來，又打發人召善哭的婦女來，
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Consider ye, and call for the mourning women, that they may come; and send for cunning women, that they may come:

9:18    叫她們速速為我們舉哀，使我們眼淚汪汪，使我們的眼皮湧出水來。
And let them make haste, and take up a wailing for us, that our eyes may run down with tears, and our eyelids gush out with waters.

9:19    因為聽見哀聲出於錫安，說，我們怎樣敗落了。我們大大地慚愧。我們撇下地土。人也拆毀了我們的房屋。
For a voice of wailing is heard out of Zion, How are we spoiled! we are greatly confounded, because we have forsaken the land, because our dwellings have cast us out.

9:20    婦女們哪，你們當聽耶和華的話，領受他口中的言語。又當教導你們的兒女舉哀，各人教導鄰舍唱哀歌。
Yet hear the word of the LORD, O ye women, and let your ear receive the word of his mouth, and teach your daughters wailing, and every one her neighbour lamentation.

9:21    因為死亡上來，進了我們的窗戶，入了我們的宮殿。要從外邊剪除孩童，從街上剪除少年人。
For death is come up into our windows, and is entered into our palaces, to cut off the children from without, and the young men from the streets.

9:22    你當說，耶和華如此說，人的屍首必倒在田野像糞土，又像收割的人遺落的一把禾稼，無人收取。
Speak, Thus saith the LORD, Even the carcases of men shall fall as dung upon the open field, and as the handful after the harvestman, and none shall gather them.

9:23    耶和華如此說，智慧人不要因他的智慧誇口，勇士不要因他的勇力誇口，財主部要因他的財物誇口。
Thus saith the LORD, Let not the wise man glory in his wisdom, neither let the mighty man glory in his might, let not the rich man glory in his riches:

9:24    誇口的卻因他有聰明，認識我是耶和華，又知道我喜悅在世上施行慈愛，公平，和公義，以此誇口。這是耶和華說的。
But let him that glorieth glory in this, that he understandeth and knoweth me, that I am the LORD which exercise lovingkindness, judgment, and righteousness, in the earth: for in these things I delight, saith the LORD.

9:25    耶和華說，看哪，日子將到，我要刑罰一切受過割禮，心卻未受割禮的，
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will punish all them which are circumcised with the uncircumcised;

9:26    就是埃及，猶大，以東，亞捫人，摩押人，和一切住在曠野剃周圍頭髮的。因為列國人都沒有受割禮，以色列人心中也沒有受割禮。
Egypt, and Judah, and Edom, and the children of Ammon, and Moab, and all that are in the utmost corners, that dwell in the wilderness: for all these nations are uncircumcised, and all the house of Israel are uncircumcised in the heart.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


10:1    以色列家阿，要聽耶和華對你們所說的話。
Hear ye the word which the LORD speaketh unto you, O house of Israel:

10:2    耶和華如此說，你們不要效法列國的行為，也不要為天象驚惶，因列國為此事驚惶。
Thus saith the LORD, Learn not the way of the heathen, and be not dismayed at the signs of heaven; for the heathen are dismayed at them.

10:3    眾民的風俗是虛空的。他們在樹林中用斧子砍伐一棵樹，匠人用手工造成偶像。
For the customs of the people are vain: for one cutteth a tree out of the forest, the work of the hands of the workman, with the axe.

10:4    他們用金銀妝飾它，用釘子和錘子釘穩，使它不動搖。
They deck it with silver and with gold; they fasten it with nails and with hammers, that it move not.

10:5    它好像棕樹，是鏇成的，不能說話，不能行走，必須有人抬著。你們不要怕它。它不能降禍，也無力降福。
They are upright as the palm tree, but speak not: they must needs be borne, because they cannot go. Be not afraid of them; for they cannot do evil, neither also is it in them to do good.

10:6    耶和華阿，沒有能比你的。你本為大，有大能大力的名。
Forasmuch as there is none like unto thee, O LORD; thou art great, and thy name is great in might.

10:7    萬國的王阿，誰不敬畏你。敬畏你本是合宜的。因為在列國的智慧人中，雖有政權的尊榮，也不能比你。
Who would not fear thee, O King of nations? for to thee doth it appertain: forasmuch as among all the wise men of the nations, and in all their kingdoms, there is none like unto thee.

10:8    他們盡都是畜類，是愚昧的。偶像的訓誨算什麼呢。偶像不過是木頭。
But they are altogether brutish and foolish: the stock is a doctrine of vanities.

10:9    有銀子打成片，是從他施帶來的，並有從烏法來的金子，都是匠人和銀匠的手工，又有藍色紫色料的衣服，都是巧匠的工作。
Silver spread into plates is brought from Tarshish, and gold from Uphaz, the work of the workman, and of the hands of the founder: blue and purple is their clothing: they are all the work of cunning men.

10:10    惟耶和華是真神，是活神，是永遠的王。他一發怒，大地震動。他一惱恨，列國都擔當不起。
But the LORD is the true God, he is the living God, and an everlasting king: at his wrath the earth shall tremble, and the nations shall not be able to abide his indignation.

10:11    你們要對他們如此說，不是那創造天地的神，必從地上從天下被除滅。
Thus shall ye say unto them, The gods that have not made the heavens and the earth, even they shall perish from the earth, and from under these heavens.

10:12    耶和華用能力創造大地，用智慧建立世界，用聰明鋪張穹蒼。
He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the world by his wisdom, and hath stretched out the heavens by his discretion.

10:13    他一發聲，空中便有多水激動。他使雲霧從地極上騰。他造電隨雨而閃，從他府庫中帶出風來。
When he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters in the heavens, and he causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth; he maketh lightnings with rain, and bringeth forth the wind out of his treasures.

10:14    各人都成了畜類，毫無知識。各銀匠都因他雕刻的偶像羞愧。他所鑄的偶像本是虛假的，其中並無氣息，
Every man is brutish in his knowledge: every founder is confounded by the graven image: for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.

10:15    都是虛無的，是迷惑人的工作。到追討的時候必被除滅。
They are vanity, and the work of errors: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.

10:16    雅各的分不像這些，因他是造作萬有的主。以色列也是他產業的支派，萬軍之耶和華是他的名。
The portion of Jacob is not like them: for he is the former of all things; and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: The LORD of hosts is his name.

10:17    受圍困的人哪，當收拾你的財物，從國中帶出去。
Gather up thy wares out of the land, O inhabitant of the fortress.

10:18    因為耶和華如此說，這時候，我必將此地的居民，好像用機弦甩出去，又必加害在他們身上，使他們覺悟。
For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will sling out the inhabitants of the land at this once, and will distress them, that they may find it so.

10:19    民說，禍哉。我受損傷。我的傷痕極其重大。我卻說，這真是我的痛苦，必須忍受。
Woe is me for my hurt! my wound is grievous: but I said, Truly this is a grief, and I must bear it.

10:20    我的帳棚毀壞。我的繩索折斷。我的兒女離我出去，沒有了。無人再支搭我的帳棚，掛起我的幔子。
My tabernacle is spoiled, and all my cords are broken: my children are gone forth of me, and they are not: there is none to stretch forth my tent any more, and to set up my curtains.

10:21    因為牧人都成為畜類，沒有求問耶和華，所以不得順利。他們的羊群也都分散。
For the pastors are become brutish, and have not sought the LORD: therefore they shall not prosper, and all their flocks shall be scattered.

10:22    有風聲。看哪，敵人來了。有大擾亂從北方出來，要使猶大城邑變為荒涼，成為野狗的住處。
Behold, the noise of the bruit is come, and a great commotion out of the north country, to make the cities of Judah desolate, and a den of dragons.

10:23    耶和華阿，我曉得人的道路不由自己，行路的人也不能定自己的腳步。
O LORD, I know that the way of man is not in himself: it is not in man that walketh to direct his steps.

10:24    耶和華阿，求你從寬懲治我，不要在你的怒中懲治我，恐怕使我歸於無有。
O LORD, correct me, but with judgment; not in thine anger, lest thou bring me to nothing.

10:25    願你將忿怒傾在不認識你的列國中，和不求告你名的各族上。因為他們吞了雅各，不但吞了，而且滅絕，把他的住處變為荒場。
Pour out thy fury upon the heathen that know thee not, and upon the families that call not on thy name: for they have eaten up Jacob, and devoured him, and consumed him, and have made his habitation desolate.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


11:1    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

11:2    當聽這約的話，告訴猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民，
Hear ye the words of this covenant, and speak unto the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem;

11:3    對他們說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，不聽從這約之話的人必受咒詛。
And say thou unto them, Thus saith the LORD God of Israel; Cursed be the man that obeyeth not the words of this covenant,

11:4    這約是我將你們列祖從埃及地領出來，脫離鐵爐的那日所吩咐他們的，說，你們要聽從我的話，照我一切所吩咐的去行。這樣，你們就作我的子民，我也作你們的神。
Which I commanded your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, from the iron furnace, saying, Obey my voice, and do them, according to all which I command you: so shall ye be my people, and I will be your God:

11:5    我好堅定向你們列祖所起的誓，給他們流奶與蜜之地，正如今日一樣。我就回答說，耶和華阿，阿們。
That I may perform the oath which I have sworn unto your fathers, to give them a land flowing with milk and honey, as it is this day. Then answered I, and said, So be it, O LORD.

11:6    耶和華對我說，你要在猶大城邑中和耶路撒冷街市上，宣告這一切話說，你們當聽從遵行這約的話。
Then the LORD said unto me, Proclaim all these words in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, saying, Hear ye the words of this covenant, and do them.

11:7    因為我將你們列祖從埃及地領出來的那日，直到今日，都是從早起來，切切誥誡他們說，你們當聽從我的話。
For I earnestly protested unto your fathers in the day that I brought them up out of the land of Egypt, even unto this day, rising early and protesting, saying, Obey my voice.

11:8    他們卻不聽從，不側耳而聽，竟隨從自己頑梗的噁心去行。所以我使這約中一切咒詛的話臨到他們身上。這約是我吩咐他們行的，他們卻不去行。
Yet they obeyed not, nor inclined their ear, but walked every one in the imagination of their evil heart: therefore I will bring upon them all the words of this covenant, which I commanded them to do: but they did them not.

11:9    耶和華對我說，在猶大人和耶路撒冷居民中有同謀背叛的事。
And the LORD said unto me, A conspiracy is found among the men of Judah, and among the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

11:10    他們轉去效法他們的先祖，不肯聽我的話，犯罪作孽，又隨從別神，事奉它。以色列家和猶大家背了我與他們列祖所立的約。
They are turned back to the iniquities of their forefathers, which refused to hear my words; and they went after other gods to serve them: the house of Israel and the house of Judah have broken my covenant which I made with their fathers.

11:11    所以耶和華如此說，我必使災禍臨到他們，是他們不能逃脫的。他們必向我哀求，我卻不聽。
Therefore thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will bring evil upon them, which they shall not be able to escape; and though they shall cry unto me, I will not hearken unto them.

11:12    那時，猶大城邑的人和耶路撒冷的居民要去哀求他們燒香所供奉的神。只是遭難的時候，這些神毫不拯救他們。
Then shall the cities of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem go, and cry unto the gods unto whom they offer incense: but they shall not save them at all in the time of their trouble.

11:13    猶大阿，你神的數目與你城的數目相等。你為那可恥的巴力所築燒香的壇也與耶路撒冷街道的數目相等。
For according to the number of thy cities were thy gods, O Judah; and according to the number of the streets of Jerusalem have ye set up altars to that shameful thing, even altars to burn incense unto Baal.

11:14    所以你不要為這百姓祈禱，不要為他們呼求禱告。因為他們遭難向我哀求的時候，我必不應允。
Therefore pray not thou for this people, neither lift up a cry or prayer for them: for I will not hear them in the time that they cry unto me for their trouble.

11:15    我所親愛的，既行許多淫亂，聖肉也離了你，你在我殿中作什麼呢。你作惡就喜樂。
What hath my beloved to do in mine house, seeing she hath wrought lewdness with many, and the holy flesh is passed from thee? when thou doest evil, then thou rejoicest.

11:16    從前耶和華給你起名叫青橄欖樹，又華美又結好果子。如今他用哄囔之聲，點火在其上，枝子也被折斷。
The LORD called thy name, A green olive tree, fair, and of goodly fruit: with the noise of a great tumult he hath kindled fire upon it, and the branches of it are broken.

11:17    原來栽培你的萬軍之耶和華已經說，要降禍攻擊你，是因以色列家和猶大家行惡，向巴力燒香，惹我發怒，是自作自受。
For the LORD of hosts, that planted thee, hath pronounced evil against thee, for the evil of the house of Israel and of the house of Judah, which they have done against themselves to provoke me to anger in offering incense unto Baal.

11:18    耶和華指示我，我就知道。你將他們所行的給我指明。
And the LORD hath given me knowledge of it, and I know it: then thou shewedst me their doings.

11:19    我卻像柔順的羊羔被牽到宰殺之地。我並不知道他們設計謀害我，說，我們把樹連果子都滅了吧。將他從活人之地剪除，使他的名不再被紀念。
But I was like a lamb or an ox that is brought to the slaughter; and I knew not that they had devised devices against me, saying, Let us destroy the tree with the fruit thereof, and let us cut him off from the land of the living, that his name may be no more remembered.

11:20    按公義判斷，察驗人肺腑心腸的萬軍之耶和華阿，我卻要見你在他們身上報仇，因我將我的案件向你稟明瞭。
But, O LORD of hosts, that judgest righteously, that triest the reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee have I revealed my cause.

11:21    所以，耶和華論到尋索你命的亞拿突人如此說，他們說，你不要奉耶和華的名說預言，免得你死在我們手中。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of the men of Anathoth, that seek thy life, saying, Prophesy not in the name of the LORD, that thou die not by our hand:

11:22    所以萬軍之耶和華如此說，看哪，我必刑罰他們。他們的少年人必被刀劍殺死，他們的兒女必因饑荒滅亡，
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, I will punish them: the young men shall die by the sword; their sons and their daughters shall die by famine:

11:23    並且沒有餘剩的人留給他們。因為在追討之年，我必使災禍臨到亞拿突人。
And there shall be no remnant of them: for I will bring evil upon the men of Anathoth, even the year of their visitation.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


12:1    耶和華阿，我與你爭辯的時候，你顯為義。但有一件，我還要與你理論，惡人的道路為何亨通呢。大行詭詐的為何得安逸呢。
Righteous art thou, O LORD, when I plead with thee: yet let me talk with thee of thy judgments: Wherefore doth the way of the wicked prosper? wherefore are all they happy that deal very treacherously?

12:2    你栽培了他們，他們也紮了根，長大，而且結果。他們的口是與你相近，心卻與你遠離。
Thou hast planted them, yea, they have taken root: they grow, yea, they bring forth fruit: thou art near in their mouth, and far from their reins.

12:3    耶和華阿，你曉得我，看見我，察驗我向你是怎樣的心。求你將他們拉出來，好像將宰的羊，叫他們等候殺戮的日子。
But thou, O LORD, knowest me: thou hast seen me, and tried mine heart toward thee: pull them out like sheep for the slaughter, and prepare them for the day of slaughter.

12:4    這地悲哀，通國的青草枯乾，要到幾時呢。因其上居民的惡行，牲畜和飛鳥都滅絕了。他們曾說，他看不見我們的結局。
How long shall the land mourn, and the herbs of every field wither, for the wickedness of them that dwell therein? the beasts are consumed, and the birds; because they said, He shall not see our last end.

12:5    耶和華說，你若與步行的人同跑，尚且覺累，怎能與馬賽跑呢。你在平安之地，雖然安穩，在約旦河邊的叢林要怎樣行呢。
If thou hast run with the footmen, and they have wearied thee, then how canst thou contend with horses? and if in the land of peace, wherein thou trustedst, they wearied thee, then how wilt thou do in the swelling of Jordan?

12:6    因為連你弟兄和你父家都用奸詐待你。他們也在你後邊大聲喊叫，雖向你說好話，你也不要信他們。
For even thy brethren, and the house of thy father, even they have dealt treacherously with thee; yea, they have called a multitude after thee: believe them not, though they speak fair words unto thee.

12:7    我離了我的殿宇，撇棄我的產業，將我心裡所親愛的交在她仇敵的手中。
I have forsaken mine house, I have left mine heritage; I have given the dearly beloved of my soul into the hand of her enemies.

12:8    我的產業向我如林中的獅子，她發聲攻擊我，因此我恨惡她。
Mine heritage is unto me as a lion in the forest; it crieth out against me: therefore have I hated it.

12:9    我的產業向我豈如斑點的鷙鳥呢。鷙鳥豈在她四圍攻擊她呢。你們要去聚集田野的百獸，帶來吞吃吧。
Mine heritage is unto me as a speckled bird, the birds round about are against her; come ye, assemble all the beasts of the field, come to devour.

12:10    許多牧人毀壞我的葡萄園，踐踏我的分，使我美好的分變為荒涼的曠野。
Many pastors have destroyed my vineyard, they have trodden my portion under foot, they have made my pleasant portion a desolate wilderness.

12:11    他們使地荒涼。地既荒涼，便向我悲哀。全地荒涼，因無人介意。
They have made it desolate, and being desolate it mourneth unto me; the whole land is made desolate, because no man layeth it to heart.

12:12    滅命的都來到曠野中一切淨光的高處。耶和華的刀從地這邊直到地那邊盡行殺滅。凡有血氣的都不得平安。
The spoilers are come upon all high places through the wilderness: for the sword of the LORD shall devour from the one end of the land even to the other end of the land: no flesh shall have peace.

12:13    他們種的是麥子，收的是荊棘。勞勞苦苦卻毫無益處。因耶和華的烈怒，你們必為自己的土產羞愧。
They have sown wheat, but shall reap thorns: they have put themselves to pain, but shall not profit: and they shall be ashamed of your revenues because of the fierce anger of the LORD.

12:14    耶和華如此說，一切惡鄰，就是佔據我使百姓以色列所承受產業的，我要將他們拔出本地，又要將猶大家從他們中間拔出來。
Thus saith the LORD against all mine evil neighbours, that touch the inheritance which I have caused my people Israel to inherit; Behold, I will pluck them out of their land, and pluck out the house of Judah from among them.

12:15    我拔出他們以後，我必轉過來憐憫他們，把他們再帶回來，各歸本業，各歸故土。
And it shall come to pass, after that I have plucked them out I will return, and have compassion on them, and will bring them again, every man to his heritage, and every man to his land.

12:16    他們若殷勤學習我百姓的道，指著我的名起誓，說，我指著永生的耶和華起誓，正如他們從前教我百姓指著巴力起誓，他們就必建立在我百姓中間。
And it shall come to pass, if they will diligently learn the ways of my people, to swear by my name, The LORD liveth; as they taught my people to swear by Baal; then shall they be built in the midst of my people.

12:17    他們若是不聽，我必拔出那國，拔出而且毀滅。這是耶和華說的。
But if they will not obey, I will utterly pluck up and destroy that nation, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


13:1    耶和華對我如此說，你去買一根麻布帶子束腰，不可放在水中。
Thus saith the LORD unto me, Go and get thee a linen girdle, and put it upon thy loins, and put it not in water.

13:2    我就照著耶和華的話，買了一根帶子束腰。
So I got a girdle according to the word of the LORD, and put it on my loins.

13:3    耶和華的話第二次臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me the second time, saying,

13:4    要拿著你所買的腰帶，就是你腰上的帶子，起來往幼發拉底河去，將腰帶藏在那裡的磐石穴中。
Take the girdle that thou hast got, which is upon thy loins, and arise, go to Euphrates, and hide it there in a hole of the rock.

13:5    我就去，照著耶和華所吩咐我的，將腰帶藏在幼發拉底河邊。
So I went, and hid it by Euphrates, as the LORD commanded me.

13:6    過了多日，耶和華對我說，你起來往幼發拉底河去，將我吩咐你藏在那裡的腰帶取出來。
And it came to pass after many days, that the LORD said unto me, Arise, go to Euphrates, and take the girdle from thence, which I commanded thee to hide there.

13:7    我就往幼發拉底河去，將腰帶從我所藏的地方刨出來，見腰帶已經變壞，毫無用了。
Then I went to Euphrates, and digged, and took the girdle from the place where I had hid it: and, behold, the girdle was marred, it was profitable for nothing.

13:8    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

13:9    耶和華如此說，我必照樣敗壞猶大的驕傲和耶路撒冷的大驕傲。
Thus saith the LORD, After this manner will I mar the pride of Judah, and the great pride of Jerusalem.

13:10    這惡民不肯聽我的話，按自己頑梗的心而行，隨從別神，事奉敬拜，他們也必像這腰帶變為無用。
This evil people, which refuse to hear my words, which walk in the imagination of their heart, and walk after other gods, to serve them, and to worship them, shall even be as this girdle, which is good for nothing.

13:11    耶和華說，腰帶怎樣緊貼人腰，照樣，我也使以色列全家和猶大全家緊貼我，，好叫他們屬我為子民，使我得名聲，得頌讚，得榮耀。他們卻不肯聽。
For as the girdle cleaveth to the loins of a man, so have I caused to cleave unto me the whole house of Israel and the whole house of Judah, saith the LORD; that they might be unto me for a people, and for a name, and for a praise, and for a glory: but they would not hear.

13:12    所以你要對他們說，耶和華以色列的神如此說，各壇都要盛滿了酒。他們必對你說，我們豈不確知各壇都要盛滿了酒呢。
Therefore thou shalt speak unto them this word; Thus saith the LORD God of Israel, Every bottle shall be filled with wine: and they shall say unto thee, Do we not certainly know that every bottle shall be filled with wine?

13:13    你就要對他們說，耶和華如此說，我必使這地的一切居民，就是坐大衛寶座的君王和祭司，與先知，並耶路撒冷的一切居民，都酩酊大醉。
Then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will fill all the inhabitants of this land, even the kings that sit upon David's throne, and the priests, and the prophets, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, with drunkenness.

13:14    耶和華說，我要使他們彼此相碰，就是父與子彼此相碰。我必不可憐，不顧惜，不憐憫，以致滅絕他們。
And I will dash them one against another, even the fathers and the sons together, saith the LORD: I will not pity, nor spare, nor have mercy, but destroy them.

13:15    你們當聽，當側耳而聽。不要驕傲，因為耶和華已經說了。
Hear ye, and give ear; be not proud: for the LORD hath spoken.

13:16    耶和華你們的神未使黑暗來到，你們的腳未在昏暗山上絆跌之先，當將榮耀歸給他。免得你們盼望光明，他使光明變為死蔭，成為幽暗。
Give glory to the LORD your God, before he cause darkness, and before your feet stumble upon the dark mountains, and, while ye look for light, he turn it into the shadow of death, and make it gross darkness.

13:17    你們若不聽這話，我必因你們的驕傲在暗地哭泣。我眼必痛哭流淚，因為耶和華的群眾被擄去了。
But if ye will not hear it, my soul shall weep in secret places for your pride; and mine eye shall weep sore, and run down with tears, because the LORD's flock is carried away captive.

13:18    你要對君王和太后說，你們當自卑，坐在下邊。因你們的頭巾，就是你們的華冠，已經脫落了。
Say unto the king and to the queen, Humble yourselves, sit down: for your principalities shall come down, even the crown of your glory.

13:19    南方的城盡都關閉，無人開放。猶大全被擄掠，且擄掠淨盡。
The cities of the south shall be shut up, and none shall open them: Judah shall be carried away captive all of it, it shall be wholly carried away captive.

13:20    你們要舉目觀看從北方來的人。先前賜給你的群眾，就是你佳美的群眾，如今在哪裡呢。
Lift up your eyes, and behold them that come from the north: where is the flock that was given thee, thy beautiful flock?

13:21    耶和華立你自己所交的朋友為首，轄制你，那時你還有什麼話說呢。痛苦豈不將你抓住像產難的婦人嗎。
What wilt thou say when he shall punish thee? for thou hast taught them to be captains, and as chief over thee: shall not sorrows take thee, as a woman in travail?

13:22    你若心裡說，這一切事為何臨到我呢。你的衣襟揭起，你的腳跟受傷，是因你的罪孽甚多。
And if thou say in thine heart, Wherefore come these things upon me? For the greatness of thine iniquity are thy skirts discovered, and thy heels made bare.

13:23    古實人豈能改變面板呢。豹豈能改變斑點呢。若能，你們這習慣行惡的便能行善了。
Can the Ethiopian change his skin, or the leopard his spots? then may ye also do good, that are accustomed to do evil.

13:24    所以我必用曠野的風吹散他們，像吹過的碎秸一樣。
Therefore will I scatter them as the stubble that passeth away by the wind of the wilderness.

13:25    耶和華說，這是你所當得的，是我量給你的分。因為你忘記我，倚靠虛假（或作偶像）。
This is thy lot, the portion of thy measures from me, saith the LORD; because thou hast forgotten me, and trusted in falsehood.

13:26    所以我要揭起你的衣襟，蒙在你臉上，顯出你的醜陋。
Therefore will I discover thy skirts upon thy face, that thy shame may appear.

13:27    你那些可憎惡之事就是在田野的山上行姦淫，發嘶聲，作淫亂的事我都看見了。耶路撒冷阿，你有禍了。你不肯潔淨，還要到幾時呢。
I have seen thine adulteries, and thy neighings, the lewdness of thy whoredom, and thine abominations on the hills in the fields. Woe unto thee, O Jerusalem! wilt thou not be made clean? when shall it once be?




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


14:1    耶和華論到乾旱之災的話臨到耶利米，
The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah concerning the dearth.

14:2    猶大悲哀，城門衰敗。眾人披上黑衣坐在地上。耶路撒冷的哀聲上達。
Judah mourneth, and the gates thereof languish; they are black unto the ground; and the cry of Jerusalem is gone up.

14:3    他們的貴胄打發家僮打水。他們來到水池，見沒有水，就拿著空器皿，蒙羞慚愧，抱頭而回。
And their nobles have sent their little ones to the waters: they came to the pits, and found no water; they returned with their vessels empty; they were ashamed and confounded, and covered their heads.

14:4    耕地的也蒙羞抱頭。因為無雨降在地上，地都乾裂。
Because the ground is chapt, for there was no rain in the earth, the plowmen were ashamed, they covered their heads.

14:5    田野的母鹿生下小鹿，就撇棄，因為無草。
Yea, the hind also calved in the field, and forsook it, because there was no grass.

14:6    野驢站在淨光的高處，喘氣好像野狗。因為無草，眼目失明。
And the wild asses did stand in the high places, they snuffed up the wind like dragons; their eyes did fail, because there was no grass.

14:7    耶和華阿，我們的罪孽雖然作見證告我們，還求你為你名的緣故行事。我們本是多次背道，得罪了你。
O LORD, though our iniquities testify against us, do thou it for thy name's sake: for our backslidings are many; we have sinned against thee.

14:8    以色列所盼望，在患難時作他救主的阿，你為何在這地像寄居的，又像行路的只住一宵呢。
O the hope of Israel, the saviour thereof in time of trouble, why shouldest thou be as a stranger in the land, and as a wayfaring man that turneth aside to tarry for a night?

14:9    你為何像受驚的人，像不能救人的勇士呢。耶和華阿，你仍在我們中間。我們也稱為你名下的人，求你不要離開我們。
Why shouldest thou be as a man astonied, as a mighty man that cannot save? yet thou, O LORD, art in the midst of us, and we are called by thy name; leave us not.

14:10    耶和華對這百姓如此說，這百姓喜愛妄行（原文作飄流），不禁止腳步，所以耶和華不悅納他們。現今要記念他們的罪孽，追討他們的罪惡。
Thus saith the LORD unto this people, Thus have they loved to wander, they have not refrained their feet, therefore the LORD doth not accept them; he will now remember their iniquity, and visit their sins.

14:11    耶和華又對我說，不要為這百姓祈禱求好處。
Then said the LORD unto me, Pray not for this people for their good.

14:12    他們禁食的時候，我不聽他們的呼求。他們獻燔祭和素祭，我也不悅納。我卻要用刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫滅絕他們。
When they fast, I will not hear their cry; and when they offer burnt offering and an oblation, I will not accept them: but I will consume them by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence.

14:13    我就說，唉。主耶和華阿，那些先知常對他們說，你們必不看見刀劍，也不遭遇饑荒。耶和華要在這地方賜你們長久的平安。
Then said I, Ah, Lord GOD! behold, the prophets say unto them, Ye shall not see the sword, neither shall ye have famine; but I will give you assured peace in this place.

14:14    耶和華對我說，那些先知託我的名說假預言，我並沒有打發他們，沒有吩咐他們，也沒有對他們說話。他們向你們預言的，乃是虛假的異象和占卜，並虛無的事，以及本心的詭詐。
Then the LORD said unto me, The prophets prophesy lies in my name: I sent them not, neither have I commanded them, neither spake unto them: they prophesy unto you a false vision and divination, and a thing of nought, and the deceit of their heart.



14:15    所以耶和華如此說，論到託我名說預言的那些先知，我並沒有打發他們。他們還說這地不能有刀劍饑荒，其實那些先知必被刀劍饑荒滅絕。
Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets that prophesy in my name, and I sent them not, yet they say, Sword and famine shall not be in this land; By sword and famine shall those prophets be consumed.

14:16    聽他們說預言的百姓必因饑荒刀劍拋在耶路撒冷的街道上，無人葬埋。他們連妻子帶兒女，都是如此。我必將他們的惡倒在他們身上（或作我必使他們罪惡的報應臨到他們身上）。
And the people to whom they prophesy shall be cast out in the streets of Jerusalem because of the famine and the sword; and they shall have none to bury them, them, their wives, nor their sons, nor their daughters: for I will pour their wickedness upon them.

14:17    你要將這話對他們說，願我眼淚汪汪，晝夜不息，因為我百姓（原文作民的處女）受了裂口破壞的大傷。
Therefore thou shalt say this word unto them; Let mine eyes run down with tears night and day, and let them not cease: for the virgin daughter of my people is broken with a great breach, with a very grievous blow.

14:18    我若出往田間，就見有被刀殺的。我若進入城內，就見有因饑荒患病的。連先知帶祭司在國中往來，也是毫無知識（或作不知怎樣才好）。
If I go forth into the field, then behold the slain with the sword! and if I enter into the city, then behold them that are sick with famine! yea, both the prophet and the priest go about into a land that they know not.

14:19    你全然棄掉猶大嗎。你心厭惡錫安嗎。為何擊打我們，以致無法醫治呢。我們指望平安，卻得不著好處。指望痊癒，不料，受了驚惶。
Hast thou utterly rejected Judah? hath thy soul lothed Zion? why hast thou smitten us, and there is no healing for us? we looked for peace, and there is no good; and for the time of healing, and behold trouble!

14:20    耶和華阿，我們承認自己的罪惡，和我們列祖的罪孽，因我們得罪了你。
We acknowledge, O LORD, our wickedness, and the iniquity of our fathers: for we have sinned against thee.

14:21    求你為你名的緣故，不厭惡我們，不辱沒你榮耀的寶座。求你追念，不要背了與我們所立的約。
Do not abhor us, for thy name's sake, do not disgrace the throne of thy glory: remember, break not thy covenant with us.

14:22    外邦人虛無的神中有能降雨的嗎。天能自降甘霖嗎。耶和華我們的神阿，能如此的不是你嗎。所以，我們仍要等候你，因為這一切都是你所造的。
Are there any among the vanities of the Gentiles that can cause rain? or can the heavens give showers? art not thou he, O LORD our God? therefore we will wait upon thee: for thou hast made all these things.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


15:1    耶和華對我說，雖有摩西和撒母耳站在我面前代求，我的心也不顧惜這百姓。你將他們從我眼前趕出，叫他們去吧。
Then said the LORD unto me, Though Moses and Samuel stood before me, yet my mind could not be toward this people: cast them out of my sight, and let them go forth.

15:2    他們問你說，我們往哪裡去呢。你便告訴他們，耶和華如此說，定為死亡的，必致死亡。定為刀殺的，必交刀殺。定為饑荒的，必遭饑荒。定為擄掠的，必被擄掠。
And it shall come to pass, if they say unto thee, Whither shall we go forth? then thou shalt tell them, Thus saith the LORD; Such as are for death, to death; and such as are for the sword, to the sword; and such as are for the famine, to the famine; and such as are for the captivity, to the captivity.

15:3    耶和華說，我命定四樣害他們，就是刀劍殺戮，狗類撕裂，空中的飛鳥，和地上的野獸吞吃毀滅。
And I will appoint over them four kinds, saith the LORD: the sword to slay, and the dogs to tear, and the fowls of the heaven, and the beasts of the earth, to devour and destroy.

15:4    又必使他們在天下萬國中拋來拋去，都因猶大王希西家的兒子瑪拿西在耶路撒冷所行的事。
And I will cause them to be removed into all kingdoms of the earth, because of Manasseh the son of Hezekiah king of Judah, for that which he did in Jerusalem.

15:5    耶路撒冷阿，誰可憐你呢。誰為你悲傷呢。誰轉身問你的安呢。
For who shall have pity upon thee, O Jerusalem? or who shall bemoan thee? or who shall go aside to ask how thou doest?

15:6    耶和華說，你棄絕了我，轉身退後。因此我伸手攻擊你，毀壞你。我後悔甚不耐煩。
Thou hast forsaken me, saith the LORD, thou art gone backward: therefore will I stretch out my hand against thee, and destroy thee; I am weary with repenting.

15:7    我在境內各城門口（或作我在這地邊界的關口），用簸箕簸了我的百姓，使他們喪掉兒女。我毀滅他們，他們仍不轉離所行的道。
And I will fan them with a fan in the gates of the land; I will bereave them of children, I will destroy my people, since they return not from their ways.

15:8    他們的寡婦在我面前比海沙更多。我使滅命的午間來，攻擊少年人的母親，使痛苦驚嚇忽然臨到她身上。
Their widows are increased to me above the sand of the seas: I have brought upon them against the mother of the young men a spoiler at noonday: I have caused him to fall upon it suddenly, and terrors upon the city.

15:9    生過七子的婦人力衰氣絕。尚在白晝，日頭忽落。她抱愧蒙羞。其餘的人，我必在他們敵人跟前，交與刀劍。這是耶和華說的。
She that hath borne seven languisheth: she hath given up the ghost; her sun is gone down while it was yet day: she hath been ashamed and confounded: and the residue of them will I deliver to the sword before their enemies, saith the LORD.

15:10    我的母親哪，我有禍了。因你生我作為遍地相爭相競的人。我素來沒有借貸與人，人也沒有借貸與我，人人卻都咒罵我。
Woe is me, my mother, that thou hast borne me a man of strife and a man of contention to the whole earth! I have neither lent on usury, nor men have lent to me on usury; yet every one of them doth curse me.

15:11    耶和華說，我必要堅固你，使你得好處。災禍苦難臨到的時候，我必要使仇敵央求你。
The LORD said, Verily it shall be well with thy remnant; verily I will cause the enemy to entreat thee well in the time of evil and in the time of affliction.

15:12    人豈能將銅與鐵，就是北方的鐵折斷呢。
Shall iron break the northern iron and the steel?

15:13    我必因你在四境之內所犯的一切罪，把你的貨物財寶當掠物，白白地交給仇敵。
Thy substance and thy treasures will I give to the spoil without price, and that for all thy sins, even in all thy borders.

15:14    我也必使仇敵帶這掠物到你所不認識的地去，因我怒中起的火要將你們焚燒。
And I will make thee to pass with thine enemies into a land which thou knowest not: for a fire is kindled in mine anger, which shall burn upon you.

15:15    耶和華阿，你是知道的。求你記念我，眷顧我，向逼迫我的人為我報仇。不要向他們忍怒取我的命，要知道我為你的緣故受了凌辱。
O LORD, thou knowest: remember me, and visit me, and revenge me of my persecutors; take me not away in thy longsuffering: know that for thy sake I have suffered rebuke.

15:16    耶和華萬軍之神阿，我得著你的言語就當食物吃了。你的言語是我心中的歡喜快樂，因我是稱為你名下的人。
Thy words were found, and I did eat them; and thy word was unto me the joy and rejoicing of mine heart: for I am called by thy name, O LORD God of hosts.

15:17    我沒有坐在宴樂人的會中，也沒有歡樂。我因你的感動（原文作手）獨自靜坐，因你使我滿心憤恨。
I sat not in the assembly of the mockers, nor rejoiced; I sat alone because of thy hand: for thou hast filled me with indignation.

15:18    我的痛苦為何長久不止呢。我的傷痕為何無法醫治，不能痊癒呢。難道你待我有詭詐，像流乾的河道嗎。
Why is my pain perpetual, and my wound incurable, which refuseth to be healed? wilt thou be altogether unto me as a liar, and as waters that fail?

15:19    耶和華如此說，你若歸回，我就將你再帶來，使你站在我面前。你若將寶貴的和下賤的分別出來，你就可以當作我的口。他們必歸向你，你卻不可歸向他們。
Therefore thus saith the LORD, If thou return, then will I bring thee again, and thou shalt stand before me: and if thou take forth the precious from the vile, thou shalt be as my mouth: let them return unto thee; but return not thou unto them.

15:20    我必使你向這百姓成為堅固的銅牆。他們必攻擊你，卻不能勝你。因我與你同在，要拯救你，搭救你。這是耶和華說的。
And I will make thee unto this people a fenced brasen wall: and they shall fight against thee, but they shall not prevail against thee: for I am with thee to save thee and to deliver thee, saith the LORD.

15:21    我必搭救你脫離惡人的手，救贖你脫離強暴人的手。
And I will deliver thee out of the hand of the wicked, and I will redeem thee out of the hand of the terrible.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


16:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came also unto me, saying,

16:2    你在這地方不可娶妻，生兒養女。
Thou shalt not take thee a wife, neither shalt thou have sons or daughters in this place.

16:3    因為論到在這地方所生的兒女，又論到在這國中生養他們的父母，耶和華如此說，
For thus saith the LORD concerning the sons and concerning the daughters that are born in this place, and concerning their mothers that bare them, and concerning their fathers that begat them in this land;

16:4    他們必死得甚苦，無人哀哭，必不得葬埋，必在地上像糞土，必被刀劍和饑荒滅絕。他們的屍首必給空中的飛鳥和地上的野獸作食物。
They shall die of grievous deaths; they shall not be lamented; neither shall they be buried; but they shall be as dung upon the face of the earth: and they shall be consumed by the sword, and by famine; and their carcases shall be meat for the fowls of heaven, and for the beasts of the earth.

16:5    耶和華如此說，不要進入喪家，不要去哀哭，也不要為他們悲傷，因我已將我的平安，慈愛，憐憫從這百姓奪去了。這是耶和華說的。
For thus saith the LORD, Enter not into the house of mourning, neither go to lament nor bemoan them: for I have taken away my peace from this people, saith the LORD, even lovingkindness and mercies.

16:6    連大帶小，都必在這地死亡，不得葬埋。人必不為他們哀哭，不用刀劃身，也不使頭光禿。
Both the great and the small shall die in this land: they shall not be buried, neither shall men lament for them, nor cut themselves, nor make themselves bald for them:

16:7    他們有喪事，人必不為他們擘餅，因死人安慰他們。他們喪父喪母，人也不給他們一杯酒安慰他們。
Neither shall men tear themselves for them in mourning, to comfort them for the dead; neither shall men give them the cup of consolation to drink for their father or for their mother.

16:8    你不可進入宴樂的家，與他們同坐吃喝。
Thou shalt not also go into the house of feasting, to sit with them to eat and to drink.

16:9    因為萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們還活著的日子在你們眼前，我必使歡喜和快樂的聲音，新郎和新婦的聲音，從這地方止息了。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will cause to cease out of this place in your eyes, and in your days, the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride.

16:10    你將這一切的話指示這百姓。他們問你說，耶和華為什麼說，要降這大災禍攻擊我們呢。我們有什麼罪孽呢。我們向耶和華我們的神犯了什麼罪呢。
And it shall come to pass, when thou shalt shew this people all these words, and they shall say unto thee, Wherefore hath the LORD pronounced all this great evil against us? or what is our iniquity? or what is our sin that we have committed against the LORD our God?

16:11    你就對他們說，耶和華說，因為你們列祖離棄我，隨從別神，事奉敬拜，不遵守我的律法，
Then shalt thou say unto them, Because your fathers have forsaken me, saith the LORD, and have walked after other gods, and have served them, and have worshipped them, and have forsaken me, and have not kept my law;

16:12    而且你們行惡比你們列祖更甚。因為各人隨從自己頑梗的噁心行事，甚至不聽從我，
And ye have done worse than your fathers; for, behold, ye walk every one after the imagination of his evil heart, that they may not hearken unto me:

16:13    所以我必將你們從這地趕出，直趕到你們和你們列祖素不認識的地。你們在那裡必晝夜事奉別神，因為我必不向你們施恩。
Therefore will I cast you out of this land into a land that ye know not, neither ye nor your fathers; and there shall ye serve other gods day and night; where I will not shew you favour.

16:14    耶和華說，日子將到，人必不再指著那領以色列人從埃及地上來之永生的耶和華起誓，
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that it shall no more be said, The LORD liveth, that brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;

16:15    卻要指著那領以色列人從北方之地，並趕他們到的各國上來之永生的耶和華起誓，並且我要領他們再入我從前賜給他們列祖之地。
But, The LORD liveth, that brought up the children of Israel from the land of the north, and from all the lands whither he had driven them: and I will bring them again into their land that I gave unto their fathers.

16:16    耶和華說，我要召許多打魚的把以色列人打上來，然後我要召許多打獵的，從各山上，各岡上，各石穴中獵取他們。
Behold, I will send for many fishers, saith the LORD, and they shall fish them; and after will I send for many hunters, and they shall hunt them from every mountain, and from every hill, and out of the holes of the rocks.

16:17    因我的眼目察看他們的一切行為。他們不能在我面前哨掩，他們的罪孽也不能在我眼前隱藏。
For mine eyes are upon all their ways: they are not hid from my face, neither is their iniquity hid from mine eyes.

16:18    我先要加倍報應他們的罪孽和罪惡。因為他們用可憎之屍玷汙我的地土，又用可厭之物充滿我的產業。
And first I will recompense their iniquity and their sin double; because they have defiled my land, they have filled mine inheritance with the carcases of their detestable and abominable things.

16:19    耶和華阿，你是我的力量，是我的保障。在苦難之日是我的避難所。列國人必從地極來到你這裡，說，我們列祖所承受的，不過是虛假，是虛空無益之物。
O LORD, my strength, and my fortress, and my refuge in the day of affliction, the Gentiles shall come unto thee from the ends of the earth, and shall say, Surely our fathers have inherited lies, vanity, and things wherein there is no profit.

16:20    人豈可為自己製造神呢。其實這不是神。
Shall a man make gods unto himself, and they are no gods?

16:21    耶和華說，我要使他們知道，就是這一次使他們知道我的手和我的能力。他們就知道我的名是耶和華了。
Therefore, behold, I will this once cause them to know, I will cause them to know mine hand and my might; and they shall know that my name is The LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


17:1    猶大的罪是用鐵筆，用金鋼鑽記錄的，銘刻在他們的心版上和壇角上。
The sin of Judah is written with a pen of iron, and with the point of a diamond: it is graven upon the table of their heart, and upon the horns of your altars;

17:2    他們的兒女記念他們高岡上，青翠樹旁的壇和木偶。
Whilst their children remember their altars and their groves by the green trees upon the high hills.

17:3    我田野的山哪，我必因你在四境之內所犯的罪，把你的貨物，財寶，並邱壇當掠物交給仇敵。
O my mountain in the field, I will give thy substance and all thy treasures to the spoil, and thy high places for sin, throughout all thy borders.

17:4    並且你因自己的罪必失去我所賜給你的產業。我也必使你在你所不認識的地上服事你的仇敵。因為你使我怒中起火，直燒到永遠。
And thou, even thyself, shalt discontinue from thine heritage that I gave thee; and I will cause thee to serve thine enemies in the land which thou knowest not: for ye have kindled a fire in mine anger, which shall burn for ever.

17:5    耶和華如此說，倚靠人血肉的膀臂，心中離棄耶和華的，那人有禍了。
Thus saith the LORD; Cursed be the man that trusteth in man, and maketh flesh his arm, and whose heart departeth from the LORD.

17:6    因他必像沙漠的杜鬆，不見福樂來到，卻要住曠野乾旱之處，無人居住的礆地。
For he shall be like the heath in the desert, and shall not see when good cometh; but shall inhabit the parched places in the wilderness, in a salt land and not inhabited.

17:7    倚靠耶和華，以耶和華為可靠的，那人有福了。
Blessed is the man that trusteth in the LORD, and whose hope the LORD is.

17:8    他必像樹栽於水旁，在河邊紮根，炎熱來到，並不懼怕，葉子仍必青翠，在乾旱之年毫無掛慮，而且結果不止。
For he shall be as a tree planted by the waters, and that spreadeth out her roots by the river, and shall not see when heat cometh, but her leaf shall be green; and shall not be careful in the year of drought, neither shall cease from yielding fruit.

17:9    人心比萬物都詭詐，壞到極處，誰能識透呢。
The heart is deceitful above all things, and desperately wicked: who can know it?

17:10    我耶和華是鑑察人心，試驗人肺腑的，要照各人所行的和他作事的結果報應他。
I the LORD search the heart, I try the reins, even to give every man according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings.

17:11    那不按正道得財的，好像鷓鴣？？不是自己下的蛋。到了中年，那財都必離開他，他終久成為愚頑人。
As the partridge sitteth on eggs, and hatcheth them not; so he that getteth riches, and not by right, shall leave them in the midst of his days, and at his end shall be a fool.

17:12    我們的聖所是榮耀的寶座，從太初安置在高處。
A glorious high throne from the beginning is the place of our sanctuary.

17:13    耶和華以色列的盼望阿，凡離棄你的必致蒙羞。耶和華說，離開我的，他們的名字必寫在土裡，因為他們離棄我這活水的泉源。
O LORD, the hope of Israel, all that forsake thee shall be ashamed, and they that depart from me shall be written in the earth, because they have forsaken the LORD, the fountain of living waters.

17:14    耶和華阿，求你醫治我，我便痊癒，拯救我，我便得救。因你是我所讚美的。
Heal me, O LORD, and I shall be healed; save me, and I shall be saved: for thou art my praise.

17:15    他們對我說，耶和華的話在哪裡呢。叫這話應驗吧。
Behold, they say unto me, Where is the word of the LORD? let it come now.

17:16    至於我，那跟從你作牧人的職分，我並沒有急忙離棄，也沒有想那災殃的日子。這是你知道的。我口中所出的言語都在你面前。
As for me, I have not hastened from being a pastor to follow thee: neither have I desired the woeful day; thou knowest: that which came out of my lips was right before thee.

17:17    不要使我因你驚恐。當災禍的日子，你是我的避難所。
Be not a terror unto me: thou art my hope in the day of evil.

17:18    願那些逼迫我的蒙羞，卻不要使我蒙羞。使他們驚惶，卻不要使我驚惶。使災禍的日子臨到他們，以加倍的毀壞毀壞他們。
Let them be confounded that persecute me, but let not me be confounded: let them be dismayed, but let not me be dismayed: bring upon them the day of evil, and destroy them with double destruction.

17:19    耶和華對我如此說，你去站在平民的門口，就是猶大君王出入的門，又站在耶路撒冷的各門口，
Thus said the LORD unto me; Go and stand in the gate of the children of the people, whereby the kings of Judah come in, and by the which they go out, and in all the gates of Jerusalem;

17:20    對他們說，你們這猶大君王和猶大眾人，並耶路撒冷的一切居民，凡從這些門進入的都當聽耶和華的話。
And say unto them, Hear ye the word of the LORD, ye kings of Judah, and all Judah, and all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, that enter in by these gates:

17:21    耶和華如此說，你們要謹慎，不要在安息日擔什麼擔子進入耶路撒冷的各門。
Thus saith the LORD; Take heed to yourselves, and bear no burden on the sabbath day, nor bring it in by the gates of Jerusalem;

17:22    也不要在安息日從家中擔出擔子去。無論何工都不可作，只要以安息日為聖日，正如我所吩咐你們列祖的。
Neither carry forth a burden out of your houses on the sabbath day, neither do ye any work, but hallow ye the sabbath day, as I commanded your fathers.

17:23    他們卻不聽從，不側耳而聽，竟硬著頸項不聽，不受教訓。
But they obeyed not, neither inclined their ear, but made their neck stiff, that they might not hear, nor receive instruction.

17:24    耶和華說，你們若留意聽從我，在安息日不擔什麼擔子進入這城的各門，只以安息日為聖日，在那日無論何工都不作。
And it shall come to pass, if ye diligently hearken unto me, saith the LORD, to bring in no burden through the gates of this city on the sabbath day, but hallow the sabbath day, to do no work therein;

17:25    那時就有坐大衛寶座的君王和首領，他們與猶大人，並耶路撒冷的居民，或坐車，或騎馬，進入這城的各門，而且這城必存到永遠。
Then shall there enter into the gates of this city kings and princes sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, they, and their princes, the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem: and this city shall remain for ever.

17:26    也必有人從猶大城邑和耶路撒冷四圍的各處，從便雅憫地，高原，山地，並南地而來，都帶燔祭，平安祭，素祭，和乳香，並感謝祭，到耶和華的殿去。
And they shall come from the cities of Judah, and from the places about Jerusalem, and from the land of Benjamin, and from the plain, and from the mountains, and from the south, bringing burnt offerings, and sacrifices, and meat offerings, and incense, and bringing sacrifices of praise, unto the house of the LORD.

17:27    你們若不聽從我，不以安息日為聖日，仍在安息日擔擔子，進入耶路撒冷的各門，我必在各門中點火。這火也必燒燬耶路撒冷的宮殿，不能熄滅。
But if ye will not hearken unto me to hallow the sabbath day, and not to bear a burden, even entering in at the gates of Jerusalem on the sabbath day; then will I kindle a fire in the gates thereof, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem, and it shall not be quenched.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


18:1    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
The word which came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

18:2    你起來，下到窯匠的家裡去，我在那裡要使你聽我的話。
Arise, and go down to the potter's house, and there I will cause thee to hear my words.

18:3    我就下到窯匠的家裡去，正遇他轉輪作器皿。
Then I went down to the potter's house, and, behold, he wrought a work on the wheels.

18:4    窯匠用泥作的器皿，在他手中作壞了，他又用這泥另作別的器皿。窯匠看怎樣好，就怎樣作。
And the vessel that he made of clay was marred in the hand of the potter: so he made it again another vessel, as seemed good to the potter to make it.

18:5    耶和華的話就臨到我說，
Then the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

18:6    耶和華說，以色列家阿，我待你們，豈不能照這窯匠弄泥嗎。以色列家阿，泥在窯匠的手中怎樣，你們在我的手中也怎樣。
O house of Israel, cannot I do with you as this potter? saith the LORD. Behold, as the clay is in the potter's hand, so are ye in mine hand, O house of Israel.

18:7    我何時論到一邦或一國說，要拔出，拆毀，毀壞。
At what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to pluck up, and to pull down, and to destroy it;

18:8    我所說的那一邦，若是轉意離開他們的惡，我就必後悔，不將我想要施行的災禍降與他們。
If that nation, against whom I have pronounced, turn from their evil, I will repent of the evil that I thought to do unto them.

18:9    我何時論到一邦或一國說，要建立，栽植。
And at what instant I shall speak concerning a nation, and concerning a kingdom, to build and to plant it;

18:10    他們若行我眼中看為惡的事，不聽從我的話，我就必後悔，不將我所說的福氣賜給他們。
If it do evil in my sight, that it obey not my voice, then I will repent of the good, wherewith I said I would benefit them.

18:11    現在你要對猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民說，耶和華如此說，我造出災禍攻擊你們，定意刑罰你們。你們各人當回頭離開所行的惡道，改正你們的行動作為。
Now therefore go to, speak to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I frame evil against you, and devise a device against you: return ye now every one from his evil way, and make your ways and your doings good.



18:12    他們卻說，這是枉然。我們要照自己的計謀去行。各人隨自己頑梗的噁心作事。
And they said, There is no hope: but we will walk after our own devices, and we will every one do the imagination of his evil heart.

18:13    所以，耶和華如此說，你們且往各國訪問，有誰聽見這樣的事。以色列民（原文作處女）行了一件極可憎惡的事。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ask ye now among the heathen, who hath heard such things: the virgin of Israel hath done a very horrible thing.

18:14    黎巴嫩的雪從田野的磐石上豈能斷絕呢。從遠處流下的涼水豈能乾涸呢。
Will a man leave the snow of Lebanon which cometh from the rock of the field? or shall the cold flowing waters that come from another place be forsaken?

18:15    我的百姓竟忘記我，向假神燒香，使他們在所行的路上，在古道上絆跌，使他們行沒有修築的斜路，
Because my people hath forgotten me, they have burned incense to vanity, and they have caused them to stumble in their ways from the ancient paths, to walk in paths, in a way not cast up;

18:16    以致他們的地令人驚駭，常常嗤笑。凡經過這地的必驚駭搖頭。
To make their land desolate, and a perpetual hissing; every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished, and wag his head.

18:17    我必在仇敵面前分散他們，好像用東風吹散一樣。遭難的日子，我必以背向他們，不以面向他們。
I will scatter them as with an east wind before the enemy; I will shew them the back, and not the face, in the day of their calamity.

18:18    他們就說，來吧。我們可以設計謀害耶利米。因為我們有祭司講律法，智慧人設謀略，先知說預言，都不能斷絕。來吧。我們可以用舌頭擊打他，不要理會他的一切話。
Then said they, Come, and let us devise devices against Jeremiah; for the law shall not perish from the priest, nor counsel from the wise, nor the word from the prophet. Come, and let us smite him with the tongue, and let us not give heed to any of his words.

18:19    耶和華阿，求你理會我，且聽那些與我爭競之人的話。
Give heed to me, O LORD, and hearken to the voice of them that contend with me.

18:20    豈可以惡報善呢。他們竟挖坑要害我的性命。求你記念我怎樣站在你面前為他們代求，要使你的忿怒向他們轉消。
Shall evil be recompensed for good? for they have digged a pit for my soul. Remember that I stood before thee to speak good for them, and to turn away thy wrath from them.

18:21    故此，願你將他們的兒女交與饑荒和刀劍。願他們的妻無子，且作寡婦。又願他們的男人被死亡所滅，他們的少年人在陣上被刀擊殺。
Therefore deliver up their children to the famine, and pour out their blood by the force of the sword; and let their wives be bereaved of their children, and be widows; and let their men be put to death; let their young men be slain by the sword in battle.

18:22    你使敵軍忽然臨到他們的時候，願人聽見哀聲從他們的屋內發出。因他們挖坑要捉拿我，暗設網羅要絆我的腳。
Let a cry be heard from their houses, when thou shalt bring a troop suddenly upon them: for they have digged a pit to take me, and hid snares for my feet.

18:23    耶和華阿，他們要殺我的那一切計謀，你都知道。不要赦免他們的罪孽，也不要從你面前塗抹他們的罪惡，要叫他們在你面前跌倒。願你發怒的時候罰辦他們。
Yet, LORD, thou knowest all their counsel against me to slay me: forgive not their iniquity, neither blot out their sin from thy sight, but let them be overthrown before thee; deal thus with them in the time of thine anger.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


19:1    耶和華如此說，你去買窯匠的瓦瓶，又帶百姓中的長老和祭司中的長老，
Thus saith the LORD, Go and get a potter's earthen bottle, and take of the ancients of the people, and of the ancients of the priests;

19:2    出去到欣嫩子谷，哈珥西（就是瓦片的意思）的門口那裡，宣告我所吩咐你的話，
And go forth unto the valley of the son of Hinnom, which is by the entry of the east gate, and proclaim there the words that I shall tell thee,

19:3    說，猶大君王和耶路撒冷的居民哪，當聽耶和華的話。萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必使災禍臨到這地方，凡聽見的人都必耳嗚。
And say, Hear ye the word of the LORD, O kings of Judah, and inhabitants of Jerusalem; Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring evil upon this place, the which whosoever heareth, his ears shall tingle.

19:4    因為他們和他們列祖，並猶大君王離棄我，將這地方看為平常，在這裡向素不認識的別神燒香，又使這地方滿了無辜人的血，
Because they have forsaken me, and have estranged this place, and have burned incense in it unto other gods, whom neither they nor their fathers have known, nor the kings of Judah, and have filled this place with the blood of innocents;

19:5    又建築巴力的邱壇，好在火中焚燒自己的兒子，作為燔祭獻給巴力。這不是我所吩咐的，不是我所提說的，也不是我心所起的意。
They have built also the high places of Baal, to burn their sons with fire for burnt offerings unto Baal, which I commanded not, nor spake it, neither came it into my mind:

19:6    耶和華說，因此，日子將到，這地方不再稱為陀斐特和欣嫩子谷，反倒稱為殺戮谷。
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that this place shall no more be called Tophet, nor The valley of the son of Hinnom, but The valley of slaughter.

19:7    我必在這地方使猶大和耶路撒冷的計謀落空，也必使他們在仇敵面前倒於刀下，並尋索其命的人手下。他們的屍首，我必給空中的飛鳥和地上的野獸作食物。
And I will make void the counsel of Judah and Jerusalem in this place; and I will cause them to fall by the sword before their enemies, and by the hands of them that seek their lives: and their carcases will I give to be meat for the fowls of the heaven, and for the beasts of the earth.

19:8    我必使這城令人驚駭嗤笑。凡經過的人，必因這城所遭的災驚駭嗤笑。
And I will make this city desolate, and an hissing; every one that passeth thereby shall be astonished and hiss because of all the plagues thereof.

19:9    我必使他們在圍困窘迫之中，就是仇敵和尋索其命的人窘迫他們的時候，各人吃自己兒女的肉和朋友的肉。
And I will cause them to eat the flesh of their sons and the flesh of their daughters, and they shall eat every one the flesh of his friend in the siege and straitness, wherewith their enemies, and they that seek their lives, shall straiten them.

19:10    你要在同去的人眼前打碎那瓶，
Then shalt thou break the bottle in the sight of the men that go with thee,

19:11    對他們說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，我要照樣打碎這民和這城，正如人打碎窯匠的瓦器，以致不能再囫圇。並且人要在陀斐特葬埋屍首，甚至無處可葬。
And shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Even so will I break this people and this city, as one breaketh a potter's vessel, that cannot be made whole again: and they shall bury them in Tophet, till there be no place to bury.

19:12    耶和華說，我必向這地方和其中的居民如此行，使這城與陀斐特一樣。
Thus will I do unto this place, saith the LORD, and to the inhabitants thereof, and even make this city as Tophet:

19:13    耶路撒冷的房屋和猶大君王的宮殿是已經被玷汙的，就是他們在其上向天上的永珍燒香，向別神澆奠祭的宮殿房屋，都必與陀斐特一樣。
And the houses of Jerusalem, and the houses of the kings of Judah, shall be defiled as the place of Tophet, because of all the houses upon whose roofs they have burned incense unto all the host of heaven, and have poured out drink offerings unto other gods.

19:14    耶利米從陀斐特就是耶和華差他去說預言的地方回來，站在耶和華殿的院中，對眾人說，
Then came Jeremiah from Tophet, whither the LORD had sent him to prophesy; and he stood in the court of the LORD's house; and said to all the people,

19:15    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必使我所說的一切災禍臨到這城和屬城的一切城邑，因為他們硬著頸項不聽我的話。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring upon this city and upon all her towns all the evil that I have pronounced against it, because they have hardened their necks, that they might not hear my words.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


20:1    祭司音麥的兒子巴施戶珥作耶和華殿的總管，聽見耶利米預言這些事，
Now Pashur the son of Immer the priest, who was also chief governor in the house of the LORD, heard that Jeremiah prophesied these things.

20:2    他就打先知耶利米，用耶和華殿裡便雅憫高門內的枷，將他枷在那裡。
Then Pashur smote Jeremiah the prophet, and put him in the stocks that were in the high gate of Benjamin, which was by the house of the LORD.

20:3    次日，巴施戶珥將耶利米開枷釋放。於是耶利米對他說，耶和華不是叫你的名為巴施戶珥，乃是叫你瑪歌珥米撒畢（就是四面驚嚇的意思）。
And it came to pass on the morrow, that Pashur brought forth Jeremiah out of the stocks. Then said Jeremiah unto him, The LORD hath not called thy name Pashur, but Magormissabib.

20:4    因耶和華如此說，我必使你自覺驚嚇，你也必使眾朋友驚嚇。他們必倒在仇敵的刀下，你也必親眼看見。我必將猶大人全交在巴比倫王的手中，他要將他們擄到巴比倫去，也要用刀將他們殺戮。
For thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will make thee a terror to thyself, and to all thy friends: and they shall fall by the sword of their enemies, and thine eyes shall behold it: and I will give all Judah into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall carry them captive into Babylon, and shall slay them with the sword.

20:5    並且我要將這城中的一切貨財和勞碌得來的，並一切珍寶，以及猶大君王所有的寶物，都交在他們仇敵的手中。仇敵要當作掠物帶到巴比倫去。
Moreover I will deliver all the strength of this city, and all the labours thereof, and all the precious things thereof, and all the treasures of the kings of Judah will I give into the hand of their enemies, which shall spoil them, and take them, and carry them to Babylon.

20:6    你這巴施戶珥和一切住在你家中的人都必被擄去。你和你的眾朋友，就是你向他們說假預言的，都必到巴比倫去，要死在那裡，葬在那裡。
And thou, Pashur, and all that dwell in thine house shall go into captivity: and thou shalt come to Babylon, and there thou shalt die, and shalt be buried there, thou, and all thy friends, to whom thou hast prophesied lies.

20:7    耶和華阿，你曾勸導我，我也聽了你的勸導。你比我有力量，且勝了我。我終日成為笑話，人人都戲弄我。
O LORD, thou hast deceived me, and I was deceived: thou art stronger than I, and hast prevailed: I am in derision daily, every one mocketh me.

20:8    我每逢講論的時候，就發出哀聲，我喊叫說，有強暴和毀滅。因為耶和華的話終日成了我的凌辱，譏刺。
For since I spake, I cried out, I cried violence and spoil; because the word of the LORD was made a reproach unto me, and a derision, daily.

20:9    我若說，我不再提耶和華，也不再奉他的名講論，我便心裡覺得似乎有燒著的火閉塞在我骨中，我就含忍不住，不能自禁。
Then I said, I will not make mention of him, nor speak any more in his name. But his word was in mine heart as a burning fire shut up in my bones, and I was weary with forbearing, and I could not stay.

20:10    我聽見了許多人的讒謗，四圍都是驚嚇。就是我知己的朋友也都窺探我，願我跌倒，說，告他吧，我們也要告他。或者他被引誘，我們就能勝他，在他身上報仇。
For I heard the defaming of many, fear on every side. Report, say they, and we will report it. All my familiars watched for my halting, saying, Peradventure he will be enticed, and we shall prevail against him, and we shall take our revenge on him.

20:11    然而，耶和華與我同在，好像甚可怕的勇士。因此，逼迫我的必都絆跌，不能得勝。他們必大大蒙羞，就是受永不忘記的羞辱，因為他們行事沒有智慧。
But the LORD is with me as a mighty terrible one: therefore my persecutors shall stumble, and they shall not prevail: they shall be greatly ashamed; for they shall not prosper: their everlasting confusion shall never be forgotten.

20:12    試驗義人，察看人肺腑心腸的萬軍之耶和華阿，求你容我見你在他們身上報仇，因我將我的案件向你稟明瞭。
But, O LORD of hosts, that triest the righteous, and seest the reins and the heart, let me see thy vengeance on them: for unto thee have I opened my cause.

20:13    你們要向耶和華唱歌。讚美耶和華。因他救了窮人的性命脫離惡人的手。
Sing unto the LORD, praise ye the LORD: for he hath delivered the soul of the poor from the hand of evildoers.

20:14    願我生的那日受咒詛。願我母親產我的那日不蒙福。
Cursed be the day wherein I was born: let not the day wherein my mother bare me be blessed.

20:15    給我父親報信說你得了兒子，使我父親甚歡喜的，願那人受咒詛。
Cursed be the man who brought tidings to my father, saying, A man child is born unto thee; making him very glad.

20:16    願那人像耶和華所傾覆而不後悔的城邑。願他早晨聽見哀聲，晌午聽見吶喊。
And let that man be as the cities which the LORD overthrew, and repented not: and let him hear the cry in the morning, and the shouting at noontide;

20:17    因他在我未出胎的時候不殺我，使我母親成了我的墳墓，胎就時常重大。
Because he slew me not from the womb; or that my mother might have been my grave, and her womb to be always great with me.

20:18    我為何出胎見勞碌愁苦，使我的年日因羞愧消滅呢。
Wherefore came I forth out of the womb to see labour and sorrow, that my days should be consumed with shame?




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


21:1    耶和華的話臨到耶利米。那時，西底家王打發瑪基雅的兒子巴施戶珥，和瑪西雅的兒子祭司西番雅，去見耶利米，說，
The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, when king Zedekiah sent unto him Pashur the son of Melchiah, and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, saying,

21:2    請你為我們求問耶和華。因為巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒來攻擊我們，或者耶和華照他一切奇妙的作為待我們，使巴比倫王離開我們上去。
Enquire, I pray thee, of the LORD for us; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon maketh war against us; if so be that the LORD will deal with us according to all his wondrous works, that he may go up from us.

21:3    耶利米對他們說，你們當對西底家這樣說，
Then said Jeremiah unto them, Thus shall ye say to Zedekiah:

21:4    耶和華以色列的神如此說，我要使你們手中的兵器，就是你們在城外與巴比倫王和圍困你們的迦勒底人打仗的兵器翻轉過來，又要使這些都聚集在這城中。
Thus saith the LORD God of Israel; Behold, I will turn back the weapons of war that are in your hands, wherewith ye fight against the king of Babylon, and against the Chaldeans, which besiege you without the walls, and I will assemble them into the midst of this city.

21:5    並且我要在怒氣，忿怒，和大惱恨中，用伸出來的手，並大能的膀臂，親自攻擊你們。
And I myself will fight against you with an outstretched hand and with a strong arm, even in anger, and in fury, and in great wrath.

21:6    又要擊打這城的居民，連人帶牲畜都必遭遇大瘟疫死亡。
And I will smite the inhabitants of this city, both man and beast: they shall die of a great pestilence.

21:7    以後我要將猶大王西底家和他的臣僕百姓，就是在城內，從瘟疫，刀劍，饑荒中剩下的人，都交在巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的手中和他們仇敵，並尋索其命的人手中。巴比倫王必用刀擊殺他們，不顧惜，不可憐。這是耶和華說的。
And afterward, saith the LORD, I will deliver Zedekiah king of Judah, and his servants, and the people, and such as are left in this city from the pestilence, from the sword, and from the famine, into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of those that seek their life: and he shall smite them with the edge of the sword; he shall not spare them, neither have pity, nor have mercy.

21:8    你要對這百姓說，耶和華如此說，看哪，我將生命的路和死亡的路擺在你們面前。
And unto this people thou shalt say, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I set before you the way of life, and the way of death.

21:9    住在這城裡的必遭刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫而死。但出去歸降圍困你們迦勒底人的必得存活，要以自己的命為掠物。
He that abideth in this city shall die by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence: but he that goeth out, and falleth to the Chaldeans that besiege you, he shall live, and his life shall be unto him for a prey.

21:10    耶和華說，我向這城變臉，降禍不降福。這城必交在巴比倫王的手中，他必用火焚燒。
For I have set my face against this city for evil, and not for good, saith the LORD: it shall be given into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire.

21:11    至於猶大王的家，你們當聽耶和華的話。
And touching the house of the king of Judah, say, Hear ye the word of the LORD;

21:12    大衛家阿，耶和華如此說，你們每早晨要施行公平，拯救被搶奪的脫離欺壓人的手，恐怕我的忿怒因你們的惡行發作，如火著起，甚至無人能以熄滅。
O house of David, thus saith the LORD; Execute judgment in the morning, and deliver him that is spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor, lest my fury go out like fire, and burn that none can quench it, because of the evil of your doings.

21:13    耶和華說，住山谷和平原磐石上的居民，你們說，誰能下來攻擊我們。誰能進入我們的住處呢。看哪，我與你們為敵。
Behold, I am against thee, O inhabitant of the valley, and rock of the plain, saith the LORD; which say, Who shall come down against us? or who shall enter into our habitations?

21:14    耶和華又說，我必按你們作事的結果刑罰你們。我也必使火在耶路撒冷的林中著起，將她四圍所有的盡行燒滅。
But I will punish you according to the fruit of your doings, saith the LORD: and I will kindle a fire in the forest thereof, and it shall devour all things round about it.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


22:1    耶和華如此說，你下到猶大王的宮中，在那裡說這話，
Thus saith the LORD; Go down to the house of the king of Judah, and speak there this word,

22:2    說，坐大衛寶座的猶大王阿，你和你的臣僕，並進入城門的百姓，都當聽耶和華的話。
And say, Hear the word of the LORD, O king of Judah, that sittest upon the throne of David, thou, and thy servants, and thy people that enter in by these gates:

22:3    耶和華如此說，你們要施行公平和公義，拯救被搶奪的脫離欺壓人的手，不可虧負寄居的和孤兒寡婦，不可以強暴待他們，在這地方也不可流無辜人的血。
Thus saith the LORD; Execute ye judgment and righteousness, and deliver the spoiled out of the hand of the oppressor: and do no wrong, do no violence to the stranger, the fatherless, nor the widow, neither shed innocent blood in this place.

22:4    你們若認真行這事，就必有坐大衛寶座的君王和他的臣僕百姓，或坐車或騎馬，從這城的各門進入。
For if ye do this thing indeed, then shall there enter in by the gates of this house kings sitting upon the throne of David, riding in chariots and on horses, he, and his servants, and his people.

22:5    你們若不聽這些話，耶和華說，我指著自己起誓，這城必變為荒場。
But if ye will not hear these words, I swear by myself, saith the LORD, that this house shall become a desolation.

22:6    耶和華論到猶大王的家如此說，我看你如基列，如黎巴嫩頂。然而，我必使你變為曠野，為無人居住的城邑。
For thus saith the LORD unto the king's house of Judah; Thou art Gilead unto me, and the head of Lebanon: yet surely I will make thee a wilderness, and cities which are not inhabited.

22:7    我要預備行毀滅的人，各拿器械攻擊你。他們要砍下你佳美的香柏樹，扔在火中。
And I will prepare destroyers against thee, every one with his weapons: and they shall cut down thy choice cedars, and cast them into the fire.

22:8    許多國的民要經過這城，各人對鄰舍說，耶和華為何向這大城如此行呢。
And many nations shall pass by this city, and they shall say every man to his neighbour, Wherefore hath the LORD done thus unto this great city?

22:9    他們必回答說，是因離棄了耶和華他們神的約，事奉敬拜別神。
Then they shall answer, Because they have forsaken the covenant of the LORD their God, and worshipped other gods, and served them.

22:10    不要為死人哭號。不要為他悲傷，卻要為離家出外的人大大哭號。因為他不得再回來，也不得再見他的本國。
Weep ye not for the dead, neither bemoan him: but weep sore for him that goeth away: for he shall return no more, nor see his native country.

22:11    因為耶和華論到從這地方出去的猶大王約西亞的兒子沙龍（在列王下二十三章三十節名約哈斯），就是接續他父親約西亞作王的，這樣說，他必不得再回到這裡來，
For thus saith the LORD touching Shallum the son of Josiah king of Judah, which reigned instead of Josiah his father, which went forth out of this place; He shall not return thither any more:

22:12    卻要死在被擄去的地方，必不得再見這地。
But he shall die in the place whither they have led him captive, and shall see this land no more.

22:13    那行不義蓋房，行不公造樓，白白使用人的手工不給工價的有禍了。
Woe unto him that buildeth his house by unrighteousness, and his chambers by wrong; that useth his neighbour's service without wages, and giveth him not for his work;

22:14    他說，我要為自己蓋廣大的房，寬敞的樓，為自己開窗戶。這樓房的護牆板是香柏木的，樓房是丹色油漆的。
That saith, I will build me a wide house and large chambers, and cutteth him out windows; and it is cieled with cedar, and painted with vermilion.

22:15    難道你作王是在乎造香柏木樓房爭勝嗎。你的父親豈不是也吃也喝，也施行公平和公義嗎。那時他得了福樂。
Shalt thou reign, because thou closest thyself in cedar? did not thy father eat and drink, and do judgment and justice, and then it was well with him?

22:16    他為困苦和窮乏人伸冤，那時就得了福樂。認識我不在乎此嗎。這是耶和華說的。
He judged the cause of the poor and needy; then it was well with him: was not this to know me? saith the LORD.

22:17    惟有你的眼和你的心專顧貪婪，流無辜人的血，行欺壓和強暴。
But thine eyes and thine heart are not but for thy covetousness, and for to shed innocent blood, and for oppression, and for violence, to do it.

22:18    所以，耶和華論到猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬如此說，人必不為他舉哀，說，哀哉。我的哥哥。或說，哀哉。我的姊姊。也不為他舉哀，說，哀哉。我的主。或說，哀哉。我主的榮華。
Therefore thus saith the LORD concerning Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah; They shall not lament for him, saying, Ah my brother! or, Ah sister! they shall not lament for him, saying, Ah lord! or, Ah his glory!

22:19    他被埋葬，好像埋驢一樣，要拉出去扔在耶路撒冷的城門之外。
He shall be buried with the burial of an ass, drawn and cast forth beyond the gates of Jerusalem.

22:20    你要上黎巴嫩哀號，在巴珊揚聲，從亞巴琳哀號，因為你所親愛的都毀滅了。
Go up to Lebanon, and cry; and lift up thy voice in Bashan, and cry from the passages: for all thy lovers are destroyed.

22:21    你興盛的時候，我對你說話。你卻說，我不聽。你自幼年以來總是這樣，不聽從我的話。
I spake unto thee in thy prosperity; but thou saidst, I will not hear. This hath been thy manner from thy youth, that thou obeyedst not my voice.

22:22    你的牧人要被風吞吃，你所親愛的必被擄去。那時你必因你一切的惡抱愧蒙羞。
The wind shall eat up all thy pastors, and thy lovers shall go into captivity: surely then shalt thou be ashamed and confounded for all thy wickedness.

22:23    你這住黎巴嫩，在香柏樹上搭窩的，有痛苦臨到你，好像疼痛臨到產難的婦人，那時你何等可憐。
O inhabitant of Lebanon, that makest thy nest in the cedars, how gracious shalt thou be when pangs come upon thee, the pain as of a woman in travail!

22:24    耶和華說，猶大王約雅敬的兒子哥尼雅（又名耶哥尼雅下同），雖是我右手上帶印的戒指，我憑我的永生起誓，也必將你從其上摘下來，
As I live, saith the LORD, though Coniah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah were the signet upon my right hand, yet would I pluck thee thence;

22:25    並且我必將你交給尋索你命的人和你所懼怕的人手中，就是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒和迦勒底人的手中。
And I will give thee into the hand of them that seek thy life, and into the hand of them whose face thou fearest, even into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of the Chaldeans.

22:26    我也必將你和生你的母親趕到別國，並不是你們生的地方。你們必死在那裡，
And I will cast thee out, and thy mother that bare thee, into another country, where ye were not born; and there shall ye die.

22:27    但心中甚想歸回之地，必不得歸回。
But to the land whereunto they desire to return, thither shall they not return.

22:28    哥尼雅這人是被輕看，破壞的器皿嗎。是無人喜愛的器皿嗎。他和他的後裔為何被趕到不認識之地呢。
Is this man Coniah a despised broken idol? is he a vessel wherein is no pleasure? wherefore are they cast out, he and his seed, and are cast into a land which they know not?

22:29    地阿，地阿，地阿，當聽耶和華的話。
O earth, earth, earth, hear the word of the LORD.

22:30    耶和華如此說，要寫明這人算為無子，是平生不得亨通的。因為他後裔中再無一人得亨通，能坐在大衛的寶座上治理猶大。
Thus saith the LORD, Write ye this man childless, a man that shall not prosper in his days: for no man of his seed shall prosper, sitting upon the throne of David, and ruling any more in Judah.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


23:1    耶和華說，那些殘害，趕散我草場之羊的牧人有禍了。
Woe be unto the pastors that destroy and scatter the sheep of my pasture! saith the LORD.

23:2    耶和華以色列的神斥責那些牧養他百姓的牧人，如此說，你們趕散我的羊群，並沒有看顧他們。我必討你們這行惡的罪。這是耶和華說的。
Therefore thus saith the LORD God of Israel against the pastors that feed my people; Ye have scattered my flock, and driven them away, and have not visited them: behold, I will visit upon you the evil of your doings, saith the LORD.

23:3    我要將我羊群中所餘剩的，從我趕他們到的各國內招聚出來，領他們歸回本圈。他們也必生養眾多。
And I will gather the remnant of my flock out of all countries whither I have driven them, and will bring them again to their folds; and they shall be fruitful and increase.

23:4    我必設立照管他們的牧人，牧養他們。他們不再懼怕，不再驚惶，也不缺少一個。這是耶和華說的。
And I will set up shepherds over them which shall feed them: and they shall fear no more, nor be dismayed, neither shall they be lacking, saith the LORD.

23:5    耶和華說，日子將到，我要給大衛興起一個公義的苗裔。他必掌王權，行事有智慧，在地上施行公平和公義。
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will raise unto David a righteous Branch, and a King shall reign and prosper, and shall execute judgment and justice in the earth.

23:6    在他的日子，猶大必得救，以色列也安然居住。他的名必稱為耶和華我們的義。
In his days Judah shall be saved, and Israel shall dwell safely: and this is his name whereby he shall be called, THE LORD OUR RIGHTEOUSNESS.

23:7    耶和華說，日子將到，人必不再指著那領以色列人從埃及地上來永生的耶和華起誓，
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that they shall no more say, The LORD liveth, which brought up the children of Israel out of the land of Egypt;

23:8    卻要指著那領以色列家的後裔從北方和趕他們到的各國中上來，永生的耶和華起誓。他們必住在本地。
But, The LORD liveth, which brought up and which led the seed of the house of Israel out of the north country, and from all countries whither I had driven them; and they shall dwell in their own land.

23:9    論到那些先知，我心在我裡面憂傷，我骨頭都發顫。因耶和華和他的聖言，我像醉酒的人，像被酒所勝的人。
Mine heart within me is broken because of the prophets; all my bones shake; I am like a drunken man, and like a man whom wine hath overcome, because of the LORD, and because of the words of his holiness.

23:10    地滿了行淫的人。因妄自賭咒，地就悲哀。曠野的草場都枯乾了。他們所行的道乃是惡的。他們的勇力使得不正。
For the land is full of adulterers; for because of swearing the land mourneth; the pleasant places of the wilderness are dried up, and their course is evil, and their force is not right.

23:11    連先知帶祭司都是褻瀆的，就是在我殿中我也看見他們的惡。這是耶和華說的。
For both prophet and priest are profane; yea, in my house have I found their wickedness, saith the LORD.

23:12    因此，他們的道路必像黑暗中的滑地，他們必被追趕，在這路中仆倒。因為當追討之年，我必使災禍臨到他們。這是耶和華說的。
Wherefore their way shall be unto them as slippery ways in the darkness: they shall be driven on, and fall therein: for I will bring evil upon them, even the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.

23:13    我在撒馬利亞的先知中曾見愚妄。他們藉巴力說預言，使我的百姓以色列走錯了路。
And I have seen folly in the prophets of Samaria; they prophesied in Baal, and caused my people Israel to err.

23:14    我在耶路撒冷的先知中曾見可憎惡的事。他們行姦淫，作事虛妄，又堅固惡人的手，甚至無人回頭離開他的惡。他們在我面前都像所多瑪。耶路撒冷的居民都像蛾摩拉。
I have seen also in the prophets of Jerusalem an horrible thing: they commit adultery, and walk in lies: they strengthen also the hands of evildoers, that none doth return from his wickedness: they are all of them unto me as Sodom, and the inhabitants thereof as Gomorrah.

23:15    所以萬軍之耶和華論到先知如此說，我必將茵？？給他們吃，又將苦膽水給他們喝。因為褻瀆的事出於耶路撒冷的先知，流行遍地。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the prophets; Behold, I will feed them with wormwood, and make them drink the water of gall: for from the prophets of Jerusalem is profaneness gone forth into all the land.



23:16    萬軍之耶和華如此說，這些先知向你們說預言，你們不要聽他們的話。他們以虛空教訓你們，所說的異象是出於自己的心，不是出於耶和華的口。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Hearken not unto the words of the prophets that prophesy unto you: they make you vain: they speak a vision of their own heart, and not out of the mouth of the LORD.

23:17    他們常對藐視我的人說，耶和華說，你們必享平安。又對一切按自己頑梗之心而行的人說，必沒有災禍臨到你們。
They say still unto them that despise me, The LORD hath said, Ye shall have peace; and they say unto every one that walketh after the imagination of his own heart, No evil shall come upon you.

23:18    有誰站在耶和華的會中得以聽見並會悟他的話呢。有誰留心聽他的話呢。
For who hath stood in the counsel of the LORD, and hath perceived and heard his word? who hath marked his word, and heard it?

23:19    看哪。耶和華的忿怒好像暴風，已經發出。是暴烈的旋風，必轉到惡人的頭上。
Behold, a whirlwind of the LORD is gone forth in fury, even a grievous whirlwind: it shall fall grievously upon the head of the wicked.

23:20    耶和華的怒氣必不轉消，直到他心中所擬定的成就了。末後的日子你們要全然明白。
The anger of the LORD shall not return, until he have executed, and till he have performed the thoughts of his heart: in the latter days ye shall consider it perfectly.

23:21    我沒有打發那些先知，他們竟自奔跑。我沒有對他們說話，他們竟自預言。
I have not sent these prophets, yet they ran: I have not spoken to them, yet they prophesied.

23:22    他們若是站在我的會中，就必使我的百姓聽我的話，又使他們回頭離開惡道和他們所行的惡。
But if they had stood in my counsel, and had caused my people to hear my words, then they should have turned them from their evil way, and from the evil of their doings.

23:23    耶和華說，我豈為近處的神呢。不也為遠處的神嗎。
Am I a God at hand, saith the LORD, and not a God afar off?

23:24    耶和華說，人豈能在隱密處藏身，使我看不見他呢。耶和華說，我豈不充滿天地嗎。
Can any hide himself in secret places that I shall not see him? saith the LORD. Do not I fill heaven and earth? saith the LORD.

23:25    我已聽見那些先知所說的，就是託我名說的假預言，他們說，我作了夢。我作了夢。
I have heard what the prophets said, that prophesy lies in my name, saying, I have dreamed, I have dreamed.

23:26    說假預言的先知，就是預言本心詭詐的先知，他們這樣存心要到幾時呢。
How long shall this be in the heart of the prophets that prophesy lies? yea, they are prophets of the deceit of their own heart;

23:27    他們各人將所作的夢對鄰舍述說，想要使我的百姓忘記我的名，正如他們列祖因巴力忘記我的名一樣。
Which think to cause my people to forget my name by their dreams which they tell every man to his neighbour, as their fathers have forgotten my name for Baal.

23:28    得夢的先知可以述說那夢。得我話的人可以誠實講說我的話。糠秕怎能與麥子比較呢。這是耶和華說的。
The prophet that hath a dream, let him tell a dream; and he that hath my word, let him speak my word faithfully. What is the chaff to the wheat? saith the LORD.

23:29    耶和華說，我的話豈不像火，又像能打碎磐石的大錘嗎。
Is not my word like as a fire? saith the LORD; and like a hammer that breaketh the rock in pieces?

23:30    耶和華說，那些先知各從鄰舍偷竊我的言語，因此我必與他們反對。
Therefore, behold, I am against the prophets, saith the LORD, that steal my words every one from his neighbour.

23:31    耶和華說，那些先知用舌頭，說是耶和華說的。我必與他們反對。
Behold, I am against the prophets, saith the LORD, that use their tongues, and say, He saith.

23:32    耶和華說，那些以幻夢為預言，又述說這夢，以謊言和矜誇使我百姓走錯了路的，我必與他們反對。我沒有打發他們，也沒有吩咐他們。他們與這百姓毫無益處。這是耶和華說的。
Behold, I am against them that prophesy false dreams, saith the LORD, and do tell them, and cause my people to err by their lies, and by their lightness; yet I sent them not, nor commanded them: therefore they shall not profit this people at all, saith the LORD.



23:33    無論是百姓，是先知，是祭司，問你說，耶和華有什麼默示呢。你就對他們說，什麼默示阿。耶和華說，我要撇棄你們。
And when this people, or the prophet, or a priest, shall ask thee, saying, What is the burden of the LORD? thou shalt then say unto them, What burden? I will even forsake you, saith the LORD.



23:34    無論是先知，是祭司，是百姓，說耶和華的默示，我必刑罰那人和他的家。
And as for the prophet, and the priest, and the people, that shall say, The burden of the LORD, I will even punish that man and his house.

23:35    你們各人要對鄰舍，各人要對弟兄如此說，耶和華回答什麼。耶和華說了什麼呢。
Thus shall ye say every one to his neighbour, and every one to his brother, What hath the LORD answered? and, What hath the LORD spoken?

23:36    耶和華的默示你們不可再提，各人所說的話必作自己的重擔（重擔和默示原文同），因為你們謬用永生神，萬軍之耶和華我們神的言語。
And the burden of the LORD shall ye mention no more: for every man's word shall be his burden; for ye have perverted the words of the living God, of the LORD of hosts our God.

23:37    你們要對先知如此說，耶和華回答你什麼。耶和華說了什麼呢。
Thus shalt thou say to the prophet, What hath the LORD answered thee? and, What hath the LORD spoken?

23:38    你們若說耶和華的默示，耶和華就如此說，因你們說耶和華的默示這句話，我也打發人到你們那裡去，告訴你們不可說耶和華的默示。
But since ye say, The burden of the LORD; therefore thus saith the LORD; Because ye say this word, The burden of the LORD, and I have sent unto you, saying, Ye shall not say, The burden of the LORD;

23:39    所以我必全然忘記你們，將你們和我所賜給你們並你們列祖的城撇棄了。
Therefore, behold, I, even I, will utterly forget you, and I will forsake you, and the city that I gave you and your fathers, and cast you out of my presence:

23:40    又必使永遠的凌辱和長久的羞恥臨到你們，是不能忘記的。
And I will bring an everlasting reproach upon you, and a perpetual shame, which shall not be forgotten.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


24:1    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒將猶大王約雅敬的兒子耶哥尼雅和猶大的首領，並工匠，鐵匠從耶路撒冷擄去，帶到巴比倫。這事以後，耶和華指給我看，有兩筐無花果放在耶和華的殿前。
The LORD shewed me, and, behold, two baskets of figs were set before the temple of the LORD, after that Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon had carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, and the princes of Judah, with the carpenters and smiths, from Jerusalem, and had brought them to Babylon.

24:2    一筐是極好的無花果，好像是初熟的。一筐是極壞的無花果，壞得不可吃。
One basket had very good figs, even like the figs that are first ripe: and the other basket had very naughty figs, which could not be eaten, they were so bad.

24:3    於是耶和華問我說，耶利米你看見什麼。我說，我看見無花果，好的極好，壞的極壞，壞得不可吃。
Then said the LORD unto me, What seest thou, Jeremiah? And I said, Figs; the good figs, very good; and the evil, very evil, that cannot be eaten, they are so evil.

24:4    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

24:5    耶和華以色列的神如此說，被擄去的猶大人，就是我打發離開這地到迦勒底人之地去的，我必看顧他們如這好無花果，使他們得好處。
Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; Like these good figs, so will I acknowledge them that are carried away captive of Judah, whom I have sent out of this place into the land of the Chaldeans for their good.

24:6    我要眷顧他們，使他們得好處，領他們歸回這地。我也要建立他們，必不拆毀，栽植他們，並不拔出。
For I will set mine eyes upon them for good, and I will bring them again to this land: and I will build them, and not pull them down; and I will plant them, and not pluck them up.

24:7    我要賜他們認識我的心，知道我是耶和華。他們要作我的子民，我要作他們的神，因為他們要一心歸向我。
And I will give them an heart to know me, that I am the LORD: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God: for they shall return unto me with their whole heart.

24:8    耶和華如此說，我必將猶大王西底家和他的首領，以及剩在這地耶路撒冷的餘民，並住在埃及地的猶大人都交出來，好像那極壞，壞得不可吃的無花果。
And as the evil figs, which cannot be eaten, they are so evil; surely thus saith the LORD, So will I give Zedekiah the king of Judah, and his princes, and the residue of Jerusalem, that remain in this land, and them that dwell in the land of Egypt:

24:9    我必使他們交出來，在天下萬國中拋來拋去，遭遇災禍。在我趕逐他們到的各處成為凌辱，笑談，譏刺，咒詛。
And I will deliver them to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth for their hurt, to be a reproach and a proverb, a taunt and a curse, in all places whither I shall drive them.

24:10    我必使刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫臨到他們，直到他們從我所賜給他們和他們列祖之地滅絕。
And I will send the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, among them, till they be consumed from off the land that I gave unto them and to their fathers.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


25:1    猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬第四年，就是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的元年，耶和華論猶大眾民的話臨到耶利米。
The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the people of Judah in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, that was the first year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon;

25:2    先知耶利米就將這話對猶大眾人和耶路撒冷的一切居民說，
The which Jeremiah the prophet spake unto all the people of Judah, and to all the inhabitants of Jerusalem, saying,

25:3    從猶大王亞們的兒子約西亞十三年直到今日，這二十三年之內，常有耶和華的話臨到我。我也對你們傳說，就是從早起來傳說，只是你們沒有聽從。
From the thirteenth year of Josiah the son of Amon king of Judah, even unto this day, that is the three and twentieth year, the word of the LORD hath come unto me, and I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye have not hearkened.

25:4    耶和華也從早起來，差遣他的僕人眾先知到你們這裡來（只是你們沒有聽從，也沒有側耳而聽），
And the LORD hath sent unto you all his servants the prophets, rising early and sending them; but ye have not hearkened, nor inclined your ear to hear.

25:5    說，你們各人當回頭，離開惡道和所作的惡，便可居住耶和華古時所賜給你們和你們列祖之地，直到永遠。
They said, Turn ye again now every one from his evil way, and from the evil of your doings, and dwell in the land that the LORD hath given unto you and to your fathers for ever and ever:

25:6    不可隨從別神事奉敬拜，以你們手所作的惹我發怒。這樣，我就不加害與你們。
And go not after other gods to serve them, and to worship them, and provoke me not to anger with the works of your hands; and I will do you no hurt.

25:7    然而你們沒有聽從我，竟以手所作的惹我發怒，陷害自己。這是耶和華說的。
Yet ye have not hearkened unto me, saith the LORD; that ye might provoke me to anger with the works of your hands to your own hurt.

25:8    所以萬軍之耶和華如此說，因為你們沒有聽從我的話，
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Because ye have not heard my words,

25:9    我必召北方的眾族和我僕人巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒來攻擊這地和這地的居民，並四圍一切的國民。我要將他們盡行滅絕，以致他們令人驚駭，嗤笑，並且永久荒涼。這是耶和華說的。
Behold, I will send and take all the families of the north, saith the LORD, and Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and will bring them against this land, and against the inhabitants thereof, and against all these nations round about, and will utterly destroy them, and make them an astonishment, and an hissing, and perpetual desolations.

25:10    我又要使歡喜和快樂的聲音，新郎和新婦的聲音，推磨的聲音和燈的亮光，從他們中間止息。
Moreover I will take from them the voice of mirth, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the sound of the millstones, and the light of the candle.

25:11    這全地必然荒涼，令人驚駭。這些國民要服事巴比倫王七十年。
And this whole land shall be a desolation, and an astonishment; and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years.

25:12    七十年滿了以後，我必刑罰巴比倫王和那國民，並迦勒底人之地，因他們的罪孽使那地永遠荒涼。這是耶和華說的。
And it shall come to pass, when seventy years are accomplished, that I will punish the king of Babylon, and that nation, saith the LORD, for their iniquity, and the land of the Chaldeans, and will make it perpetual desolations.

25:13    我也必使我向那地所說的話，就是記在這書上的話，是耶利米向這些國民說的預言，都臨到那地。
And I will bring upon that land all my words which I have pronounced against it, even all that is written in this book, which Jeremiah hath prophesied against all the nations.

25:14    因為有多國和大君王必使迦勒底人作奴僕。我也必照他們的行為，按他們手所作的報應他們。
For many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of them also: and I will recompense them according to their deeds, and according to the works of their own hands.

25:15    耶和華以色列的神對我如此說，你從我手中接這杯忿怒的酒，使我所差遣你去的各國的民喝。
For thus saith the LORD God of Israel unto me; Take the wine cup of this fury at my hand, and cause all the nations, to whom I send thee, to drink it.

25:16    他們喝了就要東倒西歪，並要發狂，因我使刀劍臨到他們中間。
And they shall drink, and be moved, and be mad, because of the sword that I will send among them.

25:17    我就從耶和華的手中接了這杯，給耶和華所差遣我去的各國的民喝，
Then took I the cup at the LORD's hand, and made all the nations to drink, unto whom the LORD had sent me:

25:18    就是耶路撒冷和猶大的城邑，並耶路撒冷的君王與首領，使這城邑荒涼，令人驚駭，嗤笑，咒詛，正如今日一樣。
To wit, Jerusalem, and the cities of Judah, and the kings thereof, and the princes thereof, to make them a desolation, an astonishment, an hissing, and a curse; as it is this day;

25:19    又有埃及王法老和他的臣僕，首領，以及他的眾民，
Pharaoh king of Egypt, and his servants, and his princes, and all his people;

25:20    並雜族的人民和烏斯地的諸王，與非利士地的諸王，亞實基倫，迦薩，以革倫，以及亞實突剩下的人。
And all the mingled people, and all the kings of the land of Uz, and all the kings of the land of the Philistines, and Ashkelon, and Azzah, and Ekron, and the remnant of Ashdod,

25:21    以東，摩押，亞捫人，
Edom, and Moab, and the children of Ammon,

25:22    推羅的諸王，西頓的諸王，海島的諸王，
And all the kings of Tyrus, and all the kings of Zidon, and the kings of the isles which are beyond the sea,

25:23    底但，提瑪，布斯，和一切剃周圍頭髮的。
Dedan, and Tema, and Buz, and all that are in the utmost corners,

25:24    阿拉伯的諸王，住曠野雜族人民的諸王，
And all the kings of Arabia, and all the kings of the mingled people that dwell in the desert,

25:25    心利的諸王，以攔的諸王，瑪列的諸王，
And all the kings of Zimri, and all the kings of Elam, and all the kings of the Medes,

25:26    北方遠近的諸王，以及天下地上的萬國喝了，以後示沙克（就是巴比倫）王也要喝。
And all the kings of the north, far and near, one with another, and all the kingdoms of the world, which are upon the face of the earth: and the king of Sheshach shall drink after them.

25:27    你要對他們說，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們要喝，且要喝醉，要嘔吐，且要跌倒，不得再起來，都因我使刀劍臨到你們中間。
Therefore thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Drink ye, and be drunken, and spue, and fall, and rise no more, because of the sword which I will send among you.

25:28    他們若不肯從你手接這杯喝，你就要對他們說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們一定要喝。
And it shall be, if they refuse to take the cup at thine hand to drink, then shalt thou say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Ye shall certainly drink.

25:29    我既從稱為我名下的城起首施行災禍，你們能盡免刑罰嗎。你們必不能免，因為我要命刀劍臨到地上一切的居民。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
For, lo, I begin to bring evil on the city which is called by my name, and should ye be utterly unpunished? Ye shall not be unpunished: for I will call for a sword upon all the inhabitants of the earth, saith the LORD of hosts.

25:30    所以你要向他們預言這一切的話，攻擊他們，說，耶和華必從高天吼叫，從聖所發聲，向自己的羊群大聲吼叫。他要向地上一切的居民吶喊，像踹葡萄的一樣。
Therefore prophesy thou against them all these words, and say unto them, The LORD shall roar from on high, and utter his voice from his holy habitation; he shall mightily roar upon his habitation; he shall give a shout, as they that tread the grapes, against all the inhabitants of the earth.

25:31    必有響聲達到地極，因為耶和華與列國相爭。凡有血氣的，他必審問。至於惡人，他必交給刀劍。這是耶和華說的。
A noise shall come even to the ends of the earth; for the LORD hath a controversy with the nations, he will plead with all flesh; he will give them that are wicked to the sword, saith the LORD.

25:32    萬軍之耶和華如此說，看哪，必有災禍從這國發到那國，並有大暴風從地極颳起。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, Behold, evil shall go forth from nation to nation, and a great whirlwind shall be raised up from the coasts of the earth.

25:33    到那日，從地這邊直到地那邊都有耶和華所殺戮的。必無人哀哭，不得收殮，不得葬埋，必在地上成為糞土。
And the slain of the LORD shall be at that day from one end of the earth even unto the other end of the earth: they shall not be lamented, neither gathered, nor buried; they shall be dung upon the ground.

25:34    牧人哪，你們當哀號，呼喊。群眾的頭目阿，你們要滾在灰中，因為你們被殺戮分散的日子足足來到。你們要跌碎，好像美器打碎一樣。
Howl, ye shepherds, and cry; and wallow yourselves in the ashes, ye principal of the flock: for the days of your slaughter and of your dispersions are accomplished; and ye shall fall like a pleasant vessel.

25:35    牧人無路逃跑。群眾的頭目也無法逃脫。
And the shepherds shall have no way to flee, nor the principal of the flock to escape.

25:36    聽阿，有牧人呼喊，有群眾頭目哀號的聲音，因為耶和華使他們的草場變為荒場。
A voice of the cry of the shepherds, and an howling of the principal of the flock, shall be heard: for the LORD hath spoiled their pasture.

25:37    耶和華髮出猛烈的怒氣，平安的羊圈就都寂靜無聲。
And the peaceable habitations are cut down because of the fierce anger of the LORD.



25:38    他離了隱密處像獅子一樣，他們的地，因刀劍凶猛的欺壓，又因他猛烈的怒氣都成為可驚駭的。
He hath forsaken his covert, as the lion: for their land is desolate because of the fierceness of the oppressor, and because of his fierce anger.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


26:1    猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬登基的時候，有這話從耶和華臨到耶利米說，
In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah came this word from the LORD, saying,

26:2    耶和華如此說，你站在耶和華殿的院內，對猶大眾城邑的人，就是到耶和華殿來禮拜的，說我所吩咐你的一切話，一字不可刪減。
Thus saith the LORD; Stand in the court of the LORD's house, and speak unto all the cities of Judah, which come to worship in the LORD's house, all the words that I command thee to speak unto them; diminish not a word:

26:3    或者他們肯聽從，各人回頭離開惡道，使我後悔不將我因他們所行的惡，想要施行的災禍降與他們。
If so be they will hearken, and turn every man from his evil way, that I may repent me of the evil, which I purpose to do unto them because of the evil of their doings.

26:4    你要對他們說，耶和華如此說，你們若不聽從我，不遵行我設立在你們面前的律法，
And thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the LORD; If ye will not hearken to me, to walk in my law, which I have set before you,

26:5    不聽我從早起來差遣到你們那裡去我僕人眾先知的話（你們還是沒有聽從），
To hearken to the words of my servants the prophets, whom I sent unto you, both rising up early, and sending them, but ye have not hearkened;

26:6    我就必使這殿如示羅，使這城為地上萬國所咒詛的。
Then will I make this house like Shiloh, and will make this city a curse to all the nations of the earth.

26:7    耶利米在耶和華殿中說的這些話，祭司，先知與眾民都聽見了。
So the priests and the prophets and all the people heard Jeremiah speaking these words in the house of the LORD.

26:8    耶利米說完了耶和華所吩咐他對眾人說的一切話，祭司，先知與眾民都來抓住他，說，你必要死。
Now it came to pass, when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking all that the LORD had commanded him to speak unto all the people, that the priests and the prophets and all the people took him, saying, Thou shalt surely die.

26:9    你為何託耶和華的名預言，說這殿必如示羅，這城必變為荒場無人居住呢。於是眾民都在耶和華的殿中聚集到耶利米那裡。
Why hast thou prophesied in the name of the LORD, saying, This house shall be like Shiloh, and this city shall be desolate without an inhabitant? And all the people were gathered against Jeremiah in the house of the LORD.

26:10    猶大的首領聽見這事，就從王宮上到耶和華的殿，坐在耶和華殿的新門口。
When the princes of Judah heard these things, then they came up from the king's house unto the house of the LORD, and sat down in the entry of the new gate of the LORD's house.

26:11    祭司，先知對首領和眾民說，這人是該死的。因為他說預言攻擊這城，正如你們親耳所聽見的。
Then spake the priests and the prophets unto the princes and to all the people, saying, This man is worthy to die; for he hath prophesied against this city, as ye have heard with your ears.

26:12    耶利米就對眾首領和眾民說，耶和華差遣我預言，攻擊這殿和這城，說你們所聽見的這一切話。
Then spake Jeremiah unto all the princes and to all the people, saying, The LORD sent me to prophesy against this house and against this city all the words that ye have heard.

26:13    現在要改正你們的行動作為，聽從耶和華你們神的話，他就必後悔，不將所說的災禍降與你們。
Therefore now amend your ways and your doings, and obey the voice of the LORD your God; and the LORD will repent him of the evil that he hath pronounced against you.

26:14    至於我，我在你們手中，你們眼看何為善，何為正，就那樣待我吧。
As for me, behold, I am in your hand: do with me as seemeth good and meet unto you.

26:15    但你們要確實地知道，若把我治死，就使無辜人的血歸到你們和這城，並其中的居民了。因為耶和華實在差遣我到你們這裡來，將這一切話傳與你們耳中。
But know ye for certain, that if ye put me to death, ye shall surely bring innocent blood upon yourselves, and upon this city, and upon the inhabitants thereof: for of a truth the LORD hath sent me unto you to speak all these words in your ears.

26:16    首領和眾民就對祭司，先知說，這人是不該死的，因為他是奉耶和華我們神的名，向我們說話
Then said the princes and all the people unto the priests and to the prophets; This man is not worthy to die: for he hath spoken to us in the name of the LORD our God.

26:17    國中的長老就有幾個人起來，對聚會的眾民說，
Then rose up certain of the elders of the land, and spake to all the assembly of the people, saying,

26:18    當猶大王希西家的日子，有摩利沙人彌迦對猶大眾人預言說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，錫安必被耕種像一塊田。耶路撒冷必變為亂堆。這殿的山必像叢林的高處。
Micah the Morasthite prophesied in the days of Hezekiah king of Judah, and spake to all the people of Judah, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Zion shall be plowed like a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of a forest.

26:19    猶大王希西家和猶大眾人豈是把他治死呢。希西家豈不是敬畏耶和華，懇求他的恩嗎。耶和華就後悔，不把自己所說的災禍降與他們。若治死這人，我們就作了大惡，自害己命。
Did Hezekiah king of Judah and all Judah put him at all to death? did he not fear the LORD, and besought the LORD, and the LORD repented him of the evil which he had pronounced against them? Thus might we procure great evil against our souls.

26:20    又有一個人奉耶和華的名說預言，是基列耶琳人示瑪雅的兒子烏利亞，他照耶利米的一切話說預言，攻擊這城和這地。
And there was also a man that prophesied in the name of the LORD, Urijah the son of Shemaiah of Kirjathjearim, who prophesied against this city and against this land according to all the words of Jeremiah:

26:21    約雅敬王和他眾勇士，眾首領聽見了烏利亞的話，王就想要把他治死。烏利亞聽見就懼怕，逃往埃及去了。
And when Jehoiakim the king, with all his mighty men, and all the princes, heard his words, the king sought to put him to death: but when Urijah heard it, he was afraid, and fled, and went into Egypt;

26:22    約雅敬王便打發亞革波的兒子以利拿單，帶領幾個人往埃及去。
And Jehoiakim the king sent men into Egypt, namely, Elnathan the son of Achbor, and certain men with him into Egypt.

26:23    他們就從埃及將烏利亞帶出來，送到約雅敬王那裡。王用刀殺了他，把他的屍首拋在平民的墳地中。
And they fetched forth Urijah out of Egypt, and brought him unto Jehoiakim the king; who slew him with the sword, and cast his dead body into the graves of the common people.

26:24    然而，沙番的兒子亞希甘保護耶利米，不交在百姓的手中治死他。
Nevertheless the hand of Ahikam the son of Shaphan was with Jeremiah, that they should not give him into the hand of the people to put him to death.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


27:1    猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬（約雅敬是西底家的別名，看第三節）登基的時候，有這話從耶和華臨到耶利米說，
In the beginning of the reign of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah came this word unto Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

27:2    耶和華對我如此說，你作繩索與軛，加在自己的頸項上，
Thus saith the LORD to me; Make thee bonds and yokes, and put them upon thy neck,

27:3    藉那些來到耶路撒冷見猶大王西底家的使臣之手，把繩索與軛送到以東王，摩押王，亞捫王，推羅王，西頓王那裡，
And send them to the king of Edom, and to the king of Moab, and to the king of the Ammonites, and to the king of Tyrus, and to the king of Zidon, by the hand of the messengers which come to Jerusalem unto Zedekiah king of Judah;

27:4    且囑咐使臣，傳與他們的主人說，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，
And command them to say unto their masters, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Thus shall ye say unto your masters;

27:5    我用大能和伸出來的膀臂，創造大地和地上的人民，牲畜。我看給誰相宜，就把地給誰。
I have made the earth, the man and the beast that are upon the ground, by my great power and by my outstretched arm, and have given it unto whom it seemed meet unto me.

27:6    現在!我將這些地都交給我僕人巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的手，我也將田野的走獸給他使用。
And now have I given all these lands into the hand of Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, my servant; and the beasts of the field have I given him also to serve him.

27:7    列國都必服事他和他的兒孫，直到他本國遭報的日期來到。那時，多國和大君王要使他作他們的奴僕。
And all nations shall serve him, and his son, and his son's son, until the very time of his land come: and then many nations and great kings shall serve themselves of him.

27:8    無論哪一邦哪一國，不肯服事這巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒，也不把頸項放在巴比倫王的軛下，我必用刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫刑罰那邦，直到我藉巴比倫王的手將他們毀滅。這是耶和華說的。
And it shall come to pass, that the nation and kingdom which will not serve the same Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon, and that will not put their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, that nation will I punish, saith the LORD, with the sword, and with the famine, and with the pestilence, until I have consumed them by his hand.

27:9    至於你們，不可聽從你們的先知和占卜的，圓夢的，觀兆的，以及行邪術的。他們告訴你們說，你們不致服事巴比倫王。
Therefore hearken not ye to your prophets, nor to your diviners, nor to your dreamers, nor to your enchanters, nor to your sorcerers, which speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon:

27:10    他們向你們說假預言，要叫你們遷移，遠離本地，以致我將你們趕出去，使你們滅亡。
For they prophesy a lie unto you, to remove you far from your land; and that I should drive you out, and ye should perish.

27:11    但哪一邦肯把頸項放在巴比倫王的軛下服事他，我必使那邦仍在本地存留，得以耕種居住。這是耶和華說的。
But the nations that bring their neck under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him, those will I let remain still in their own land, saith the LORD; and they shall till it, and dwell therein.

27:12    我就照這一切的話對猶大王西底家說，要把你們的頸項放在巴比倫王的軛下，服事他和他的百姓，便得存活。
I spake also to Zedekiah king of Judah according to all these words, saying, Bring your necks under the yoke of the king of Babylon, and serve him and his people, and live.

27:13    你和你的百姓為何要因刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫死亡，正如耶和華論到不服事巴比倫王的那國說的話呢。
Why will ye die, thou and thy people, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, as the LORD hath spoken against the nation that will not serve the king of Babylon?

27:14    不可聽那些先知對你們所說的話。他們說，你們不致服事巴比倫王，其實他們向你們說假預言。
Therefore hearken not unto the words of the prophets that speak unto you, saying, Ye shall not serve the king of Babylon: for they prophesy a lie unto you.

27:15    耶和華說，我並沒有打發他們，他們卻託我的名說假預言，好使我將你們和向你們說預言的那些先知趕出去，一同滅亡。
For I have not sent them, saith the LORD, yet they prophesy a lie in my name; that I might drive you out, and that ye might perish, ye, and the prophets that prophesy unto you.

27:16    我又對祭司和這眾民說，耶和華如此說，你們不可聽那先知對你們所說的預言。他們說，耶和華殿中的器皿快要從巴比倫帶回來。其實他們向你們說假預言。
Also I spake to the priests and to all this people, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Hearken not to the words of your prophets that prophesy unto you, saying, Behold, the vessels of the LORD's house shall now shortly be brought again from Babylon: for they prophesy a lie unto you.

27:17    不可聽從他們，只管服事巴比倫王便得存活。這城何致變為荒場呢。
Hearken not unto them; serve the king of Babylon, and live: wherefore should this city be laid waste?

27:18    他們若果是先知，有耶和華的話臨到他們，讓他們祈求萬軍之耶和華，使那在耶和華殿中和猶大王宮內，並耶路撒冷剩下的器皿，不被帶到巴比倫去。
But if they be prophets, and if the word of the LORD be with them, let them now make intercession to the LORD of hosts, that the vessels which are left in the house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of Judah, and at Jerusalem, go not to Babylon.

27:19    因為萬軍之耶和華論到柱子，銅海，盆座，並剩在這城裡的器皿，
For thus saith the LORD of hosts concerning the pillars, and concerning the sea, and concerning the bases, and concerning the residue of the vessels that remain in this city,

27:20    就是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒擄掠猶大王約雅敬的兒子耶哥尼雅，和猶大，耶路撒冷一切貴胄的時候所沒有掠去的器皿。
Which Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took not, when he carried away captive Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah from Jerusalem to Babylon, and all the nobles of Judah and Jerusalem;

27:21    論到那在耶和華殿中和猶大王宮內，並耶路撒冷剩下的器皿，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，
Yea, thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, concerning the vessels that remain in the house of the LORD, and in the house of the king of Judah and of Jerusalem;

27:22    必被帶到巴比倫存在那裡，直到我眷顧以色列人的日子。那時，我必將這器皿帶回來，交還此地。這是耶和華說的。
They shall be carried to Babylon, and there shall they be until the day that I visit them, saith the LORD; then will I bring them up, and restore them to this place.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


28:1    當年，就是猶大王西底家登基第四年五月，基遍人押朔的兒子，先知哈拿尼雅，在耶和華的殿中當著祭司和眾民對我說，
And it came to pass the same year, in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the fourth year, and in the fifth month, that Hananiah the son of Azur the prophet, which was of Gibeon, spake unto me in the house of the LORD, in the presence of the priests and of all the people, saying,

28:2    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我已經摺斷巴比倫王的軛。
Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, I have broken the yoke of the king of Babylon.

28:3    二年之內，我要將巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒從這地掠到巴比倫的器皿，就是耶和華殿中的一切器皿都帶回此地。
Within two full years will I bring again into this place all the vessels of the LORD's house, that Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon took away from this place, and carried them to Babylon:

28:4    我又要將猶大王約雅敬的兒子耶哥尼雅，和被擄到巴比倫去的一切猶大人，帶回此地，因為我要折斷巴比倫王的軛。這是耶和華說的。
And I will bring again to this place Jeconiah the son of Jehoiakim king of Judah, with all the captives of Judah, that went into Babylon, saith the LORD: for I will break the yoke of the king of Babylon.

28:5    先知耶利米當著祭司和站在耶和華殿裡的眾民對先知哈拿尼雅說，
Then the prophet Jeremiah said unto the prophet Hananiah in the presence of the priests, and in the presence of all the people that stood in the house of the LORD,

28:6    阿們。願耶和華如此行，願耶和華成就你所預言的話，將耶和華殿中的器皿和一切被擄去的人從巴比倫帶回此地。
Even the prophet Jeremiah said, Amen: the LORD do so: the LORD perform thy words which thou hast prophesied, to bring again the vessels of the LORD's house, and all that is carried away captive, from Babylon into this place.

28:7    然而我向你和眾民耳中所要說的話，你應當聽。
Nevertheless hear thou now this word that I speak in thine ears, and in the ears of all the people;

28:8    從古以來，在你我以前的先知，向多國和大邦說預言，論到爭戰，災禍，瘟疫的事。
The prophets that have been before me and before thee of old prophesied both against many countries, and against great kingdoms, of war, and of evil, and of pestilence.

28:9    先知預言的平安，到話語成就的時候，人便知道他真是耶和華所差來的。
The prophet which prophesieth of peace, when the word of the prophet shall come to pass, then shall the prophet be known, that the LORD hath truly sent him.

28:10    於是，先知哈拿尼雅將先知耶利米頸項上的軛取下來，折斷了。
Then Hananiah the prophet took the yoke from off the prophet Jeremiah's neck, and brake it.

28:11    哈拿尼雅又當著眾民說，耶和華如此說，二年之內我必照樣從列國人的頸項上折斷巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的軛。於是先知耶利米就走了。
And Hananiah spake in the presence of all the people, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Even so will I break the yoke of Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon from the neck of all nations within the space of two full years. And the prophet Jeremiah went his way.

28:12    先知哈拿尼雅把先知耶利米頸項上的軛折斷以後，耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Then the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the prophet, after that Hananiah the prophet had broken the yoke from off the neck of the prophet Jeremiah, saying,

28:13    你去告訴哈拿尼雅說，耶和華如此說，你折斷木軛，卻換了鐵軛。
Go and tell Hananiah, saying, Thus saith the LORD; Thou hast broken the yokes of wood; but thou shalt make for them yokes of iron.

28:14    因為萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我已將鐵軛加在這些國的頸項上，使他們服事巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒，他們總要服事他。我也把田野的走獸給了他。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; I have put a yoke of iron upon the neck of all these nations, that they may serve Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon; and they shall serve him: and I have given him the beasts of the field also.

28:15    於是先知耶利米對先知哈拿尼雅說，哈拿尼雅阿，你應當聽。耶和華並沒有差遣你，你竟使這百姓倚靠謊言。
Then said the prophet Jeremiah unto Hananiah the prophet, Hear now, Hananiah; The LORD hath not sent thee; but thou makest this people to trust in a lie.

28:16    所以耶和華如此說，看哪，我要叫你去世，你今年必死，因為你向耶和華說了叛逆的話。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will cast thee from off the face of the earth: this year thou shalt die, because thou hast taught rebellion against the LORD.

28:17    這樣，先知哈拿尼雅當年七月間就死了。
So Hananiah the prophet died the same year in the seventh month.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


29:1    先知耶利米從耶路撒冷寄信與被擄的祭司，先知，和眾民，並生存的長老，就是尼布甲尼撒從耶路撒冷擄到巴比倫去的。
Now these are the words of the letter that Jeremiah the prophet sent from Jerusalem unto the residue of the elders which were carried away captives, and to the priests, and to the prophets, and to all the people whom Nebuchadnezzar had carried away captive from Jerusalem to Babylon;

29:2    （這在耶哥尼雅王和太后，太監，並猶大，耶路撒冷的首領，以及工匠，鐵匠都離了耶路撒冷以後。）
(After that Jeconiah the king, and the queen, and the eunuchs, the princes of Judah and Jerusalem, and the carpenters, and the smiths, were departed from Jerusalem;)

29:3    他藉沙番的兒子以利亞薩和希勒家的兒子基瑪利的手寄去。他們二人是猶大王西底家打發往巴比倫去見尼布甲尼撒王的。
By the hand of Elasah the son of Shaphan, and Gemariah the son of Hilkiah, (whom Zedekiah king of Judah sent unto Babylon to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon) saying,

29:4    信上說，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神，對一切被擄去的，就是我使他們從耶路撒冷被擄到巴比倫的人，如此說，
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, unto all that are carried away captives, whom I have caused to be carried away from Jerusalem unto Babylon;

29:5    你們要蓋造房屋，住在其中。栽種田園，吃其中所產的。
Build ye houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them;

29:6    娶妻生兒女，為你們的兒子娶妻，使你們的女兒嫁人，生兒養女。在那裡生養眾多，不致減少。
Take ye wives, and beget sons and daughters; and take wives for your sons, and give your daughters to husbands, that they may bear sons and daughters; that ye may be increased there, and not diminished.

29:7    我所使你們被擄到的那城，你們要為那城求平安，為那城禱告耶和華。因為那城得平安，你們也隨著得平安。
And seek the peace of the city whither I have caused you to be carried away captives, and pray unto the LORD for it: for in the peace thereof shall ye have peace.

29:8    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，不要被你們中間的先知和占卜的誘惑，也不要聽信自己所作的夢。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Let not your prophets and your diviners, that be in the midst of you, deceive you, neither hearken to your dreams which ye cause to be dreamed.

29:9    因為他們託我的名對你們說假預言，我並沒有差遣他們。這是耶和華說的。
For they prophesy falsely unto you in my name: I have not sent them, saith the LORD.

29:10    耶和華如此說，為巴比倫所定的七十年滿了以後，我要眷顧你們，向你們成就我的恩言，使你們仍回此地。
For thus saith the LORD, That after seventy years be accomplished at Babylon I will visit you, and perform my good word toward you, in causing you to return to this place.

29:11    耶和華說，我知道我向你們所懷的意念是賜平安的意念，不是降災禍的意念，要叫你們末後有指望。
For I know the thoughts that I think toward you, saith the LORD, thoughts of peace, and not of evil, to give you an expected end.

29:12    你們要呼求我，禱告我，我就應允你們。
Then shall ye call upon me, and ye shall go and pray unto me, and I will hearken unto you.

29:13    你們尋求我，若專心尋求我，就必尋見。
And ye shall seek me, and find me, when ye shall search for me with all your heart.

29:14    耶和華說，我必被你們尋見，我也必使你們被擄的人歸回，將你們從各國中和我所趕你們到的各處招聚了來，又將你們帶回我使你們被擄掠離開的地方。這是耶和華說的。
And I will be found of you, saith the LORD: and I will turn away your captivity, and I will gather you from all the nations, and from all the places whither I have driven you, saith the LORD; and I will bring you again into the place whence I caused you to be carried away captive.

29:15    你們說，耶和華在巴比倫為我們興起先知。
Because ye have said, The LORD hath raised us up prophets in Babylon;

29:16    所以耶和華論到坐大衛寶座的王和住在這城裡的一切百姓，就是未曾與你們一同被擄的弟兄，
Know that thus saith the LORD of the king that sitteth upon the throne of David, and of all the people that dwelleth in this city, and of your brethren that are not gone forth with you into captivity;

29:17    萬軍之耶和華如此說，看哪，我必使刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫臨到他們，使他們像極壞的無花果，壞得不可吃。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will send upon them the sword, the famine, and the pestilence, and will make them like vile figs, that cannot be eaten, they are so evil.



29:18    我必用刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫追趕他們，使他們在天下萬國拋來拋去，在我所趕他們到的各國中，令人咒詛，驚駭，嗤笑，羞辱。
And I will persecute them with the sword, with the famine, and with the pestilence, and will deliver them to be removed to all the kingdoms of the earth, to be a curse, and an astonishment, and an hissing, and a reproach, among all the nations whither I have driven them:

29:19    耶和華說，這是因為他們沒有聽從我的話，就是我從早起來差遣我僕人眾先知去說的，無奈他們不聽。這是耶和華說的。
Because they have not hearkened to my words, saith the LORD, which I sent unto them by my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them; but ye would not hear, saith the LORD.

29:20    所以你們一切被擄去的，就是我從耶路撒冷打發到巴比倫去的，當聽耶和華的話。
Hear ye therefore the word of the LORD, all ye of the captivity, whom I have sent from Jerusalem to Babylon:

29:21    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神論到哥賴雅的兒子亞哈，並瑪西雅的兒子西底家，如此說，他們是託我名向你們說假預言的，我必將他們交在巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的手中。他要在你們眼前殺?
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, of Ahab the son of Kolaiah, and of Zedekiah the son of Maaseiah, which prophesy a lie unto you in my name; Behold, I will deliver them into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall slay them before your eyes;

29:22    住巴比倫一切被擄的猶大人必藉這二人賭咒說，願耶和華使你像巴比倫王在火中燒的西底家和亞哈一樣。
And of them shall be taken up a curse by all the captivity of Judah which are in Babylon, saying, The LORD make thee like Zedekiah and like Ahab, whom the king of Babylon roasted in the fire;

29:23    這二人是在以色列中行了醜事，與鄰舍的妻行淫，又假託我名說我未曾吩咐他們的話。知道的是我，作見證的也是我。這是耶和華說的。
Because they have committed villany in Israel, and have committed adultery with their neighbours' wives, and have spoken lying words in my name, which I have not commanded them; even I know, and am a witness, saith the LORD.

29:24    論到尼希蘭人示瑪雅，你當說，
Thus shalt thou also speak to Shemaiah the Nehelamite, saying,

29:25    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你曾用自己的名寄信給耶路撒冷的眾民和祭司瑪西雅的兒子西番雅，並眾祭司，說，
Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying, Because thou hast sent letters in thy name unto all the people that are at Jerusalem, and to Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest, and to all the priests, saying,

29:26    耶和華已經立你西番雅為祭司，代替祭司耶何耶大，使耶和華殿中有官長，好將一切狂妄自稱為先知的人用枷枷住，用鎖鎖住。
The LORD hath made thee priest in the stead of Jehoiada the priest, that ye should be officers in the house of the LORD, for every man that is mad, and maketh himself a prophet, that thou shouldest put him in prison, and in the stocks.

29:27    現在亞拿突人耶利米向你們自稱為先知，你們為何沒有責備他呢。
Now therefore why hast thou not reproved Jeremiah of Anathoth, which maketh himself a prophet to you?

29:28    因為他寄信給我們在巴比倫的人說，被擄的事必長久。你們要蓋造房屋，住在其中。栽種田園，吃其中所產的。
For therefore he sent unto us in Babylon, saying, This captivity is long: build ye houses, and dwell in them; and plant gardens, and eat the fruit of them.

29:29    祭司西番雅就把這信念給先知耶利米聽。
And Zephaniah the priest read this letter in the ears of Jeremiah the prophet.

29:30    於是耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying,

29:31    你當寄信給一切被擄的人說，耶和華論到尼希蘭人示瑪雅說，因為示瑪雅向你們說預言，我並沒有差遣他，他使你們倚靠謊言。
Send to all them of the captivity, saying, Thus saith the LORD concerning Shemaiah the Nehelamite; Because that Shemaiah hath prophesied unto you, and I sent him not, and he caused you to trust in a lie:

29:32    所以耶和華如此說，我必刑罰尼希蘭人示瑪雅和他的後裔，他必無一人存留住在這民中，也不得見我所要賜與我百姓的福樂，因為他向耶和華說了叛逆的話。這是耶和華說的。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will punish Shemaiah the Nehelamite, and his seed: he shall not have a man to dwell among this people; neither shall he behold the good that I will do for my people, saith the LORD; because he hath taught rebellion against the LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


30:1    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

30:2    耶和華以色列的神如此說，你將我對你說過的一切話都寫在書上。
Thus speaketh the LORD God of Israel, saying, Write thee all the words that I have spoken unto thee in a book.

30:3    耶和華說，日子將到，我要使我的百姓以色列和猶大被擄的人歸回。我也要使他們回到我所賜給他們列祖之地，他們就得這地為業。這是耶和華說的。
For, lo, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will bring again the captivity of my people Israel and Judah, saith the LORD: and I will cause them to return to the land that I gave to their fathers, and they shall possess it.

30:4    以下是耶和華論到以色列和猶大所說的話，
And these are the words that the LORD spake concerning Israel and concerning Judah.

30:5    耶和華如此說，我們聽見聲音，是戰抖懼怕而不平安的聲音。
For thus saith the LORD; We have heard a voice of trembling, of fear, and not of peace.

30:6    你們且訪問看看，男人有產難嗎。我怎嗎看見人人用手掐腰，像產難的婦人，臉面都變青了呢。
Ask ye now, and see whether a man doth travail with child? wherefore do I see every man with his hands on his loins, as a woman in travail, and all faces are turned into paleness?

30:7    哀哉。那日為大，無日可比。這是雅各遭難的時候，但他必被救出來。
Alas! for that day is great, so that none is like it: it is even the time of Jacob's trouble, but he shall be saved out of it.

30:8    萬軍之耶和華說，到那日，我必從你頸項上折斷仇敵的軛，扭開他的繩索。外邦人不得再使你作他們的奴僕。
For it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD of hosts, that I will break his yoke from off thy neck, and will burst thy bonds, and strangers shall no more serve themselves of him:

30:9    你們卻要事奉耶和華你們的神和我為你們所要興起的王大衛。
But they shall serve the LORD their God, and David their king, whom I will raise up unto them.

30:10    故此，耶和華說，我的僕人雅各阿，不要懼怕。以色列阿，不要驚惶。因我要從遠方拯救你，從被擄到之地拯救你的後裔。雅各必回來得享平靖安逸，無人使他害怕。
Therefore fear thou not, O my servant Jacob, saith the LORD; neither be dismayed, O Israel: for, lo, I will save thee from afar, and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and shall be in rest, and be quiet, and none shall make him afraid.

30:11    因我與你同在，要拯救你，也要將所趕散你到的那些國滅絕淨盡，卻不將你滅絕淨盡，倒要從寬懲治你，萬不能不罰你（不罰你或作以你為無罪）。這是耶和華說的。
For I am with thee, saith the LORD, to save thee: though I make a full end of all nations whither I have scattered thee, yet will I not make a full end of thee: but I will correct thee in measure, and will not leave thee altogether unpunished.

30:12    耶和華如此說，你的損傷無法醫治。你的傷痕極其重大。
For thus saith the LORD, Thy bruise is incurable, and thy wound is grievous.

30:13    無人為你分訴，使你的傷痕得以纏裹。你沒有醫治的良藥。
There is none to plead thy cause, that thou mayest be bound up: thou hast no healing medicines.

30:14    你所親愛的都忘記你，不來探問（或作理會）你。我因你的罪孽甚大，罪惡眾多，曾用仇敵加的傷害傷害你，用殘忍者的懲治懲治你。
All thy lovers have forgotten thee; they seek thee not; for I have wounded thee with the wound of an enemy, with the chastisement of a cruel one, for the multitude of thine iniquity; because thy sins were increased.

30:15    你為何因損傷哀號呢。你的痛苦無法醫治。我因你的罪孽甚大，罪惡眾多，曾將這些加在你身上。
Why criest thou for thine affliction? thy sorrow is incurable for the multitude of thine iniquity: because thy sins were increased, I have done these things unto thee.

30:16    故此，凡吞吃你的必被吞吃。你的敵人個個都被擄去。擄掠你的必成為擄物。搶奪你的必成為掠物。
Therefore all they that devour thee shall be devoured; and all thine adversaries, every one of them, shall go into captivity; and they that spoil thee shall be a spoil, and all that prey upon thee will I give for a prey.

30:17    耶和華說，我必使你痊癒，醫好你的傷痕，都因人稱你為被趕散的，說，這是錫安，無人來探問（或作理會）的。
For I will restore health unto thee, and I will heal thee of thy wounds, saith the LORD; because they called thee an Outcast, saying, This is Zion, whom no man seeketh after.

30:18    耶和華如此說，我必使雅各被擄去的帳棚歸回，也必顧惜他的住處。城必建造在原舊的山岡。宮殿也照舊有人居住。
Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will bring again the captivity of Jacob's tents, and have mercy on his dwellingplaces; and the city shall be builded upon her own heap, and the palace shall remain after the manner thereof.

30:19    必有感謝和歡樂的聲音從其中發出，我要使他們增多，不致減少。使他們尊榮，不致卑微。
And out of them shall proceed thanksgiving and the voice of them that make merry: and I will multiply them, and they shall not be few; I will also glorify them, and they shall not be small.

30:20    他們的兒女要如往日。他們的會眾堅立在我面前。凡欺壓他們的，我必刑罰他。
Their children also shall be as aforetime, and their congregation shall be established before me, and I will punish all that oppress them.

30:21    他們的君王必是屬乎他們的。掌權的必從他們中間而出。我要使他就近我，他也要親近我。不然，誰有膽量親近我呢。這是耶和華說的。
And their nobles shall be of themselves, and their governor shall proceed from the midst of them; and I will cause him to draw near, and he shall approach unto me: for who is this that engaged his heart to approach unto me? saith the LORD.

30:22    你們要作我的子民，我要作你們的神。
And ye shall be my people, and I will be your God.

30:23    看哪，耶和華的忿怒好像暴風已經發出。是掃滅的暴風，必轉到惡人的頭上。
Behold, the whirlwind of the LORD goeth forth with fury, a continuing whirlwind: it shall fall with pain upon the head of the wicked.

30:24    耶和華的烈怒必不轉消，直到他心中所擬定的成就了。末後的日子你們要明白。
The fierce anger of the LORD shall not return, until he have done it, and until he have performed the intents of his heart: in the latter days ye shall consider it.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


31:1    耶和華說，那時，我必作以色列各家的神。他們必作我的子民。
At the same time, saith the LORD, will I be the God of all the families of Israel, and they shall be my people.

31:2    耶和華如此說，脫離刀劍的就是以色列人。我使他享安息的時候，他曾在曠野蒙恩。
Thus saith the LORD, The people which were left of the sword found grace in the wilderness; even Israel, when I went to cause him to rest.

31:3    古時（或作從遠方）耶和華向以色列（原文作我）顯現，說，我以永遠的愛愛你，因此我以慈愛吸引你。
The LORD hath appeared of old unto me, saying, Yea, I have loved thee with an everlasting love: therefore with lovingkindness have I drawn thee.

31:4    以色列的民（原文作處女）哪，我要再建立你，你就被建立。你必再以擊鼓為美，與歡樂的人一同跳舞而出。
Again I will build thee, and thou shalt be built, O virgin of Israel: thou shalt again be adorned with thy tabrets, and shalt go forth in the dances of them that make merry.

31:5    又必在撒馬利亞的山上栽種葡萄園，栽種的人要享用所結的果子。
Thou shalt yet plant vines upon the mountains of Samaria: the planters shall plant, and shall eat them as common things.

31:6    日子必到，以法蓮山上守望的人必呼叫說，起來吧。我們可以上錫安，到耶和華我們的神那裡去。
For there shall be a day, that the watchmen upon the mount Ephraim shall cry, Arise ye, and let us go up to Zion unto the LORD our God.

31:7    耶和華如此說，你們當為雅各歡樂歌唱，因萬國中為首的歡呼。當傳揚頌讚說，耶和華阿，求你拯救你的百姓以色列所剩下的人。
For thus saith the LORD; Sing with gladness for Jacob, and shout among the chief of the nations: publish ye, praise ye, and say, O LORD, save thy people, the remnant of Israel.

31:8    我必將他們從北方領來，從地極招聚。同著他們來的有瞎子，瘸子，孕婦，產婦。他們必成為大幫回到這裡來。
Behold, I will bring them from the north country, and gather them from the coasts of the earth, and with them the blind and the lame, the woman with child and her that travaileth with child together: a great company shall return thither.

31:9    他們要哭泣而來。我要照他們懇求的引導他們，使他們在河水旁走正直的路，在其上不致絆跌。因為我是以色列的父，以法蓮是我的長子。
They shall come with weeping, and with supplications will I lead them: I will cause them to walk by the rivers of waters in a straight way, wherein they shall not stumble: for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn.

31:10    列國阿，要聽耶和華的話，傳揚在遠處的海島說，趕散以色列的必招聚他，又看守他，好像牧人看守羊群。
Hear the word of the LORD, O ye nations, and declare it in the isles afar off, and say, He that scattered Israel will gather him, and keep him, as a shepherd doth his flock.

31:11    因耶和華救贖了雅各，救贖他脫離比他更強之人的手。
For the LORD hath redeemed Jacob, and ransomed him from the hand of him that was stronger than he.

31:12    他們要來到錫安的高處歌唱，又流歸耶和華施恩之地，就是有五穀，新酒，和油，並羊羔，牛犢之地。他們的心必像澆灌的園子。他們也不再有一點愁煩。
Therefore they shall come and sing in the height of Zion, and shall flow together to the goodness of the LORD, for wheat, and for wine, and for oil, and for the young of the flock and of the herd: and their soul shall be as a watered garden; and they shall not sorrow any more at all.

31:13    那時，處女必歡樂跳舞。年少的，年老的，也必一同歡樂。因為我要使他們的悲哀變為歡喜，並要安慰他們，使他們的愁煩轉為快樂。
Then shall the virgin rejoice in the dance, both young men and old together: for I will turn their mourning into joy, and will comfort them, and make them rejoice from their sorrow.

31:14    我必以肥油使祭司的心滿足。我的百姓也要因我的恩惠知足。這是耶和華說的。
And I will satiate the soul of the priests with fatness, and my people shall be satisfied with my goodness, saith the LORD.

31:15    耶和華如此說，在拉瑪聽見號？？痛哭的聲音，是拉結哭她兒女，不肯受安慰，因為他們都不在了。
Thus saith the LORD; A voice was heard in Ramah, lamentation, and bitter weeping; Rahel weeping for her children refused to be comforted for her children, because they were not.

31:16    耶和華如此說，你禁止聲音不要哀哭，禁止眼目不要流淚，因你所作之工必有賞賜。他們必從敵國歸回。這是耶和華說的。
Thus saith the LORD; Refrain thy voice from weeping, and thine eyes from tears: for thy work shall be rewarded, saith the LORD; and they shall come again from the land of the enemy.

31:17    耶和華說，你末後必有指望。你的兒女必回到自己的境界。
And there is hope in thine end, saith the LORD, that thy children shall come again to their own border.

31:18    我聽見以法蓮為自己悲嘆說，你責罰我，我便受責罰，像不慣負軛的牛犢一樣。求你使我回轉，我便迴轉，因為你是耶和華我的神。
I have surely heard Ephraim bemoaning himself thus; Thou hast chastised me, and I was chastised, as a bullock unaccustomed to the yoke: turn thou me, and I shall be turned; for thou art the LORD my God.

31:19    我回轉以後就真正懊悔。受教以後就拍腿嘆息。我因擔當幼年的凌辱就抱愧蒙羞。
Surely after that I was turned, I repented; and after that I was instructed, I smote upon my thigh: I was ashamed, yea, even confounded, because I did bear the reproach of my youth.

31:20    耶和華說，以法蓮是我的愛子嗎。是可喜悅的孩子嗎。我每逢責備他，仍深顧念他。所以我的心腸戀慕他。我必要憐憫他。
Is Ephraim my dear son? is he a pleasant child? for since I spake against him, I do earnestly remember him still: therefore my bowels are troubled for him; I will surely have mercy upon him, saith the LORD.

31:21    以色列民（原文作處女）哪，你當為自己設立指路碑，豎起引路柱。你要留心向大路，就是你所去的原路。你當迴轉，迴轉到你這些城邑。
Set thee up waymarks, make thee high heaps: set thine heart toward the highway, even the way which thou wentest: turn again, O virgin of Israel, turn again to these thy cities.

31:22    背道的民（原文作女子）哪，你反來覆去要到幾時呢。耶和華在地上造了一件新事，就是女子護衛男子。
How long wilt thou go about, O thou backsliding daughter? for the LORD hath created a new thing in the earth, A woman shall compass a man.

31:23    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我使被擄之人歸回的時候，他們在猶大地和其中的城邑必再這樣說，公義的居所阿，聖山哪，願耶和華賜福給你。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; As yet they shall use this speech in the land of Judah and in the cities thereof, when I shall bring again their captivity; The LORD bless thee, O habitation of justice, and mountain of holiness.

31:24    猶大和屬猶大城邑的人，農夫和放羊的人，要一同住在其中。
And there shall dwell in Judah itself, and in all the cities thereof together, husbandmen, and they that go forth with flocks.

31:25    疲乏的人，我使他飽飫。愁煩的人，我使他知足。
For I have satiated the weary soul, and I have replenished every sorrowful soul.

31:26    先知說，我醒了，覺著睡得香甜。
Upon this I awaked, and beheld; and my sleep was sweet unto me.

31:27    耶和華說，日子將到，我要把人的種和牲畜的種播種在以色列家和猶大家。
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will sow the house of Israel and the house of Judah with the seed of man, and with the seed of beast.

31:28    我先前怎樣留意將他們拔出，拆毀，毀壞，傾覆，苦害，也必照樣留意將他們建立，栽植。這是耶和華說的。
And it shall come to pass, that like as I have watched over them, to pluck up, and to break down, and to throw down, and to destroy, and to afflict; so will I watch over them, to build, and to plant, saith the LORD.

31:29    當那些日子，人不再說，父親吃了酸葡萄，兒子的牙酸倒了。
In those days they shall say no more, The fathers have eaten a sour grape, and the children's teeth are set on edge.

31:30    但各人必因自己的罪死亡。凡吃酸葡萄的，自己的牙必酸倒。
But every one shall die for his own iniquity: every man that eateth the sour grape, his teeth shall be set on edge.

31:31    耶和華說，日子將到，我要與以色列家和猶大家另立新約，
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel, and with the house of Judah:

31:32    不像我拉著他們祖宗的手，領他們出埃及地的時候，與他們所立的約。我雖作他們的丈夫，他們卻背了我的約。這是耶和華說的。
Not according to the covenant that I made with their fathers in the day that I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt; which my covenant they brake, although I was an husband unto them, saith the LORD:

31:33    耶和華說，那些日子以後，我與以色列家所立的約乃是這樣，我要將我的律法放在他們裡面，寫在他們心上。我要作他們的神，他們要作我的子民。
But this shall be the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel; After those days, saith the LORD, I will put my law in their inward parts, and write it in their hearts; and will be their God, and they shall be my people.

31:34    他們各人不再教導自己的鄰舍和自己的弟兄說，你該認識耶和華，因為他們從最小的到至大的都必認識我。我要赦免他們的罪孽，不再記念他們的罪惡。這是耶和華說的。
And they shall teach no more every man his neighbour, and every man his brother, saying, Know the LORD: for they shall all know me, from the least of them unto the greatest of them, saith the LORD: for I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more.

31:35    那使太陽白日發光，使星月有定例，黑夜發亮，又攪動大海，使海中波浪？？訇的，萬軍之耶和華是他的名。他如此說，
Thus saith the LORD, which giveth the sun for a light by day, and the ordinances of the moon and of the stars for a light by night, which divideth the sea when the waves thereof roar; The LORD of hosts is his name:

31:36    這些定例若能在我面前廢掉，以色列的後裔也就在我面前斷絕，永遠不再成國。這是耶和華說的。
If those ordinances depart from before me, saith the LORD, then the seed of Israel also shall cease from being a nation before me for ever.

31:37    耶和華如此說，若能量度上天，尋察下地的根基，我就因以色列後裔一切所行的棄絕他們。這是耶和華說的。
Thus saith the LORD; If heaven above can be measured, and the foundations of the earth searched out beneath, I will also cast off all the seed of Israel for all that they have done, saith the LORD.

31:38    耶和華說，日子將到，這城必為耶和華建造，從哈楠業樓直到角門。
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the city shall be built to the LORD from the tower of Hananeel unto the gate of the corner.

31:39    準繩要往外量出，直到迦立山，又轉到歌亞。
And the measuring line shall yet go forth over against it upon the hill Gareb, and shall compass about to Goath.

31:40    拋屍的全谷和倒灰之處，並一切田地，直到汲淪溪，又直到東方馬門的拐角，都要歸耶和華為聖，不再拔出，不再傾覆，直到永遠。
And the whole valley of the dead bodies, and of the ashes, and all the fields unto the brook of Kidron, unto the corner of the horse gate toward the east, shall be holy unto the LORD; it shall not be plucked up, nor thrown down any more for ever.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


32:1    猶大王西底家第十年，就是尼布甲尼撒十八年，耶和華的話臨到耶利米。
The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD in the tenth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, which was the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar.

32:2    那時巴比倫王的軍隊圍困耶路撒冷，先知耶利米囚在護衛兵的院內，在猶大王的宮中。
For then the king of Babylon's army besieged Jerusalem: and Jeremiah the prophet was shut up in the court of the prison, which was in the king of Judah's house.

32:3    因為猶大王西底家已將他囚禁，說，你為什麼預言說，耶和華如此說，我必將這城交在巴比倫王的手中，他必攻取這城。
For Zedekiah king of Judah had shut him up, saying, Wherefore dost thou prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD, Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall take it;

32:4    猶大王西底家必不能逃脫迦勒底人的手，定要交在巴比倫王的手中，要口對口彼此說話，眼對眼彼此相看。
And Zedekiah king of Judah shall not escape out of the hand of the Chaldeans, but shall surely be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon, and shall speak with him mouth to mouth, and his eyes shall behold his eyes;

32:5    巴比倫王必將西底家帶到巴比倫。西底家必住在那裡，直到我眷顧他的時候。你們雖與迦勒底人爭戰，卻不順利。這是耶和華說的。
And he shall lead Zedekiah to Babylon, and there shall he be until I visit him, saith the LORD: though ye fight with the Chaldeans, ye shall not prosper.

32:6    耶利米說，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And Jeremiah said, The word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

32:7    你叔叔沙龍的兒子哈拿篾必來見你，說，我在亞拿突的那塊地，求你買來。因你買這地是合乎贖回之理。
Behold, Hanameel the son of Shallum thine uncle shall come unto thee, saying, Buy thee my field that is in Anathoth: for the right of redemption is thine to buy it.

32:8    我叔叔的兒子哈拿篾果然照耶和華的話來到護衛兵的院內，對我說，我在便雅憫境內，亞拿突的那塊地，求你買來。因你買來是合乎承受之理，是你當贖的。你為自己買來吧。我耶利米就知道這是耶和華的話。
So Hanameel mine uncle's son came to me in the court of the prison according to the word of the LORD, and said unto me, Buy my field, I pray thee, that is in Anathoth, which is in the country of Benjamin: for the right of inheritance is thine, and the redemption is thine; buy it for thyself. Then I knew that this was the word of the LORD.

32:9    我便向我叔叔的兒子哈拿篾買了亞拿突的那塊地，平了十七舍客勒銀子給他。
And I bought the field of Hanameel my uncle's son, that was in Anathoth, and weighed him the money, even seventeen shekels of silver.

32:10    我在契上畫押，將契封緘，又請見證人來，並用天平將銀子平給他。
And I subscribed the evidence, and sealed it, and took witnesses, and weighed him the money in the balances.

32:11    我便將照例按規所立的買契，就是封緘的那一張和敞著的那一張，
So I took the evidence of the purchase, both that which was sealed according to the law and custom, and that which was open:

32:12    當著我叔叔的兒子哈拿篾和畫押作見證的人，並坐在護衛兵院內的一切猶大人眼前，交給瑪西雅的孫子尼利亞的兒子巴錄。
And I gave the evidence of the purchase unto Baruch the son of Neriah, the son of Maaseiah, in the sight of Hanameel mine uncle's son, and in the presence of the witnesses that subscribed the book of the purchase, before all the Jews that sat in the court of the prison.

32:13    當著他們眾人眼前，我囑咐巴錄說，
And I charged Baruch before them, saying,

32:14    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，要將這封緘的和敞著的兩張契放在瓦器裡，可以存留多日。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Take these evidences, this evidence of the purchase, both which is sealed, and this evidence which is open; and put them in an earthen vessel, that they may continue many days.

32:15    因為萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，將來在這地必有人再買房屋，田地，和葡萄園。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Houses and fields and vineyards shall be possessed again in this land.

32:16    我將買契交給尼利亞的兒子巴錄以後，便禱告耶和華說，
Now when I had delivered the evidence of the purchase unto Baruch the son of Neriah, I prayed unto the LORD, saying,

32:17    主耶和華阿，你曾用大能和伸出來的膀臂創造天地，在你沒有難成的事。
Ah Lord GOD! behold, thou hast made the heaven and the earth by thy great power and stretched out arm, and there is nothing too hard for thee:

32:18    你施慈愛與千萬人，又將父親的罪孽報應在他後世子孫的懷中，是至大全能的神，萬軍之耶和華是你的名。
Thou shewest lovingkindness unto thousands, and recompensest the iniquity of the fathers into the bosom of their children after them: the Great, the Mighty God, the LORD of hosts, is his name,

32:19    謀事有大略，行事有大能，注目觀看世人一切的舉動，為要照各人所行的和他作事的結果報應他。
Great in counsel, and mighty in work: for thine eyes are open upon all the ways of the sons of men: to give every one according to his ways, and according to the fruit of his doings:

32:20    在埃及地顯神蹟奇事，直到今日在以色列和別人中間也是如此，使自己得了名聲，正如今日一樣。
Which hast set signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, even unto this day, and in Israel, and among other men; and hast made thee a name, as at this day;

32:21    用神蹟奇事和大能的手，並伸出來的膀臂與大可畏的事，領你的百姓以色列出了埃及。
And hast brought forth thy people Israel out of the land of Egypt with signs, and with wonders, and with a strong hand, and with a stretched out arm, and with great terror;

32:22    將這地賜給他們，就是你向他們列祖起誓應許賜給他們流奶與蜜之地。
And hast given them this land, which thou didst swear to their fathers to give them, a land flowing with milk and honey;

32:23    他們進入這地得了為業，卻不聽從你的話，也不遵行你的律法。你一切所吩咐他們行的，他們一無所行，因此你使這一切的災禍臨到他們。
And they came in, and possessed it; but they obeyed not thy voice, neither walked in thy law; they have done nothing of all that thou commandedst them to do: therefore thou hast caused all this evil to come upon them:

32:24    看哪，敵人已經來到，築壘要攻取這城。城也因刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫交在攻城的迦勒底人手中。你所說的話都成就了，你也看見了。
Behold the mounts, they are come unto the city to take it; and the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans, that fight against it, because of the sword, and of the famine, and of the pestilence: and what thou hast spoken is come to pass; and, behold, thou seest it.

32:25    主耶和華阿，你對我說，要用銀子為自己買那塊地，又請見證人。其實這城已交在迦勒底人的手中了。
And thou hast said unto me, O Lord GOD, Buy thee the field for money, and take witnesses; for the city is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.

32:26    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying,

32:27    我是耶和華，是凡有血氣者的神，豈有我難成的事嗎。
Behold, I am the LORD, the God of all flesh: is there any thing too hard for me?

32:28    耶和華如此說，我必將這城交付迦勒底人的手和巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的手，他必攻取這城。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the Chaldeans, and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and he shall take it:

32:29    攻城的迦勒底人必來放火焚燒這城和其中的房屋。在這房屋上，人曾向巴力燒香，向別神澆奠，惹我發怒。
And the Chaldeans, that fight against this city, shall come and set fire on this city, and burn it with the houses, upon whose roofs they have offered incense unto Baal, and poured out drink offerings unto other gods, to provoke me to anger.

32:30    以色列人和猶大人自從幼年以來，專行我眼中看為惡的事。以色列人盡以手所作的惹我發怒。這是耶和華說的。
For the children of Israel and the children of Judah have only done evil before me from their youth: for the children of Israel have only provoked me to anger with the work of their hands, saith the LORD.

32:31    這城自從建造的那日直到今日，常惹我的怒氣和忿怒，使我將這城從我面前除掉。
For this city hath been to me as a provocation of mine anger and of my fury from the day that they built it even unto this day; that I should remove it from before my face,

32:32    是因以色列人和猶大人一切的邪惡，就是他們和他們的君王，首領，祭司，先知，並猶大的眾人，以及耶路撒冷的居民所行的，惹我發怒。
Because of all the evil of the children of Israel and of the children of Judah, which they have done to provoke me to anger, they, their kings, their princes, their priests, and their prophets, and the men of Judah, and the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

32:33    他們以背向我，不以面向我。我雖從早起來教訓他們，他們卻不聽從，不受教訓，
And they have turned unto me the back, and not the face: though I taught them, rising up early and teaching them, yet they have not hearkened to receive instruction.

32:34    竟把可憎之物設立在稱為我名下的殿中，汙穢了這殿。
But they set their abominations in the house, which is called by my name, to defile it.

32:35    他們在欣嫩子谷建築巴力的邱壇，好使自己的兒女經火歸摩洛。他們行這可憎的事，使猶大陷在罪裡，這並不是我所吩咐的，也不是我心所起的意。
And they built the high places of Baal, which are in the valley of the son of Hinnom, to cause their sons and their daughters to pass through the fire unto Molech; which I commanded them not, neither came it into my mind, that they should do this abomination, to cause Judah to sin.

32:36    現在論到這城，就是你們所說，已經因刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫交在巴比倫王手中的，耶和華以色列的神如此說，
And now therefore thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning this city, whereof ye say, It shall be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon by the sword, and by the famine, and by the pestilence;

32:37    我在怒氣，忿怒，和大惱恨中，將以色列人趕到各國。日後我必從那裡將他們招聚出來，領他們回到此地，使他們安然居住。
Behold, I will gather them out of all countries, whither I have driven them in mine anger, and in my fury, and in great wrath; and I will bring them again unto this place, and I will cause them to dwell safely:

32:38    他們要作我的子民，我要作他們的神。
And they shall be my people, and I will be their God:

32:39    我要使他們彼此同心同道，好叫他們永遠敬畏我，使他們和他們後世的子孫得福樂，
And I will give them one heart, and one way, that they may fear me for ever, for the good of them, and of their children after them:

32:40    又要與他們立永遠的約，必隨著他們施恩，並不離開他們，且使他們有敬畏我的心，不離開我。
And I will make an everlasting covenant with them, that I will not turn away from them, to do them good; but I will put my fear in their hearts, that they shall not depart from me.

32:41    我必歡喜施恩與他們，要盡心盡意，誠誠實實將他們栽於此地。
Yea, I will rejoice over them to do them good, and I will plant them in this land assuredly with my whole heart and with my whole soul.

32:42    因為耶和華如此說，我怎樣使這一切大禍臨到這百姓，我也要照樣使我所應許他們的一切福樂都臨到他們。
For thus saith the LORD; Like as I have brought all this great evil upon this people, so will I bring upon them all the good that I have promised them.

32:43    你們說，這地是荒涼，無人民，無牲畜，是交付迦勒底人手之地。日後在這境內，必有人置買田地。
And fields shall be bought in this land, whereof ye say, It is desolate without man or beast; it is given into the hand of the Chaldeans.

32:44    在便雅憫地，耶路撒冷四圍的各處，猶大的城邑，山地的城邑，高原的城邑，並南地的城邑，人必用銀子買田地，在契上畫押，將契封緘，請出見證人，因為我必使被擄的人歸回。這是耶和華的話。
Men shall buy fields for money, and subscribe evidences, and seal them, and take witnesses in the land of Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, and in the cities of the mountains, and in the cities of the valley, and in the cities of the south: for I will cause their captivity to return, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


33:1    耶利米還囚在護衛兵的院內，耶和華的話第二次臨到他說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah the second time, while he was yet shut up in the court of the prison, saying,

33:2    成就的是耶和華，造作，為要建立的也是耶和華。耶和華是他的名。他如此說，
Thus saith the LORD the maker thereof, the LORD that formed it, to establish it; the LORD is his name;

33:3    你求告我，我就應允你，並將你所不知道，又大又難的事指示你。
Call unto me, and I will answer thee, and shew thee great and mighty things, which thou knowest not.

33:4    論到這城中的房屋和猶大王的宮室，就是拆毀為擋敵人高壘和刀劍的，耶和華以色列的神如此說，
For thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, concerning the houses of this city, and concerning the houses of the kings of Judah, which are thrown down by the mounts, and by the sword;

33:5    人要與迦勒底人爭戰，正是拿死屍充滿這房屋，就是我在怒氣和忿怒中所殺的人，因他們的一切惡，我就掩面不顧這城。
They come to fight with the Chaldeans, but it is to fill them with the dead bodies of men, whom I have slain in mine anger and in my fury, and for all whose wickedness I have hid my face from this city.

33:6    看哪，我要使這城得以痊癒安舒，使城中的人得醫治，又將豐盛的平安和誠實顯明與他們。
Behold, I will bring it health and cure, and I will cure them, and will reveal unto them the abundance of peace and truth.

33:7    我也要使猶大被擄的和以色列被擄的歸回，並建立他們和起初一樣。
And I will cause the captivity of Judah and the captivity of Israel to return, and will build them, as at the first.

33:8    我要除淨他們的一切罪，就是向我所犯的罪。又要赦免他們的一切罪，就是干犯我，違揹我的罪。
And I will cleanse them from all their iniquity, whereby they have sinned against me; and I will pardon all their iniquities, whereby they have sinned, and whereby they have transgressed against me.

33:9    這城要在地上萬國人面前使我得頌讚，得榮耀，名為可喜可樂之城。萬國人因聽見我向這城所賜的福樂，所施的恩惠平安，就懼怕戰兢。
And it shall be to me a name of joy, a praise and an honour before all the nations of the earth, which shall hear all the good that I do unto them: and they shall fear and tremble for all the goodness and for all the prosperity that I procure unto it.

33:10    耶和華如此說，你們論這地方，說是荒廢無人民無牲畜之地，但在這荒涼無人民無牲畜的猶大城邑和耶路撒冷的街上，
Thus saith the LORD; Again there shall be heard in this place, which ye say shall be desolate without man and without beast, even in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, that are desolate, without man, and without inhabitant, and without beast,

33:11    必再聽見有歡喜和快樂的聲音，新郎和新婦的聲音，並聽見有人說，要稱謝萬軍之耶和華，因耶和華本為善。他的慈愛永遠長存。又有奉感謝祭到耶和華殿中之人的聲音。因為我必使這地被擄的人歸回，和起初一樣。這是耶和華說的。
The voice of joy, and the voice of gladness, the voice of the bridegroom, and the voice of the bride, the voice of them that shall say, Praise the LORD of hosts: for the LORD is good; for his mercy endureth for ever: and of them that shall bring the sacrifice of praise into the house of the LORD. For I will cause to return the captivity of the land, as at the first, saith the LORD.

33:12    萬軍之耶和華如此說，在這荒廢無人民無牲畜之地，並其中所有的城邑，必再有牧人的住處。他們要使羊群躺臥在那裡。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Again in this place, which is desolate without man and without beast, and in all the cities thereof, shall be an habitation of shepherds causing their flocks to lie down.

33:13    在山地的城邑，高原的城邑，南地的城邑，便雅憫地，耶路撒冷四圍的各處，和猶大的城邑必再有羊群從數點的人手下經過。這是耶和華說的。
In the cities of the mountains, in the cities of the vale, and in the cities of the south, and in the land of Benjamin, and in the places about Jerusalem, and in the cities of Judah, shall the flocks pass again under the hands of him that telleth them, saith the LORD.

33:14    耶和華說，日子將到，我應許以色列家和猶大家的恩言必然成就。
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will perform that good thing which I have promised unto the house of Israel and to the house of Judah.

33:15    當那日子，那時候，我必使大衛公義的苗裔長起來。他必在地上施行公平和公義。
In those days, and at that time, will I cause the Branch of righteousness to grow up unto David; and he shall execute judgment and righteousness in the land.

33:16    在那日子猶大必得救，耶路撒冷必安然居住，他的名必稱為耶和華我們的義。
In those days shall Judah be saved, and Jerusalem shall dwell safely: and this is the name wherewith she shall be called, The LORD our righteousness.

33:17    因為耶和華如此說，大衛必永不斷人坐在以色列家的寶座上。
For thus saith the LORD; David shall never want a man to sit upon the throne of the house of Israel;



33:18    祭司，利未人在我面前也不斷人獻燔祭，燒素祭，時常辦理獻祭的事。
Neither shall the priests the Levites want a man before me to offer burnt offerings, and to kindle meat offerings, and to do sacrifice continually.

33:19    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
And the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, saying,

33:20    耶和華如此說，你們若能廢棄我所立白日黑夜的約，使白日黑夜不按時輪轉，
Thus saith the LORD; If ye can break my covenant of the day, and my covenant of the night, and that there should not be day and night in their season;

33:21    就能廢棄我與我僕人大衛所立的約，使他沒有兒子在他的寶座上為王，並能廢棄我與事奉我的祭司，利未人所立的約。
Then may also my covenant be broken with David my servant, that he should not have a son to reign upon his throne; and with the Levites the priests, my ministers.

33:22    天上的永珍不能數算，海邊的塵沙也不能斗量。我必照樣使我僕人大衛的後裔和事奉我的利未人多起來。
As the host of heaven cannot be numbered, neither the sand of the sea measured: so will I multiply the seed of David my servant, and the Levites that minister unto me.

33:23    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, saying,

33:24    你沒有揣摩這百姓的話嗎。他們說，耶和華所揀選的二族，他已經棄絕了。他們這樣藐視我的百姓，以為不再成國。
Considerest thou not what this people have spoken, saying, The two families which the LORD hath chosen, he hath even cast them off? thus they have despised my people, that they should be no more a nation before them.

33:25    耶和華如此說，若是我立白日黑夜的約不能存住，若是我未曾安排天地的定例，
Thus saith the LORD; If my covenant be not with day and night, and if I have not appointed the ordinances of heaven and earth;

33:26    我就棄絕雅各的後裔和我僕人大衛的後裔，不使大衛的後裔治理亞伯拉罕，以撒，雅各的後裔。因為我必使他們被擄的人歸回，也必憐憫他們。
Then will I cast away the seed of Jacob, and David my servant, so that I will not take any of his seed to be rulers over the seed of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob: for I will cause their captivity to return, and have mercy on them.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


34:1    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒率領他的全軍和地上屬他的各國各邦，攻打耶路撒冷和屬耶路撒冷所有的城邑。那時，耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, when Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon, and all his army, and all the kingdoms of the earth of his dominion, and all the people, fought against Jerusalem, and against all the cities thereof, saying,

34:2    耶和華以色列的神說，你去告訴猶大王西底家，耶和華如此說，我要將這城交付巴比倫王的手，他必用火焚燒。
Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; Go and speak to Zedekiah king of Judah, and tell him, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give this city into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall burn it with fire:

34:3    你必不能逃脫他的手，定被拿住，交在他的手中。你的眼要見巴比倫王的眼，他要口對口和你說話，你也必到巴比倫去。
And thou shalt not escape out of his hand, but shalt surely be taken, and delivered into his hand; and thine eyes shall behold the eyes of the king of Babylon, and he shall speak with thee mouth to mouth, and thou shalt go to Babylon.

34:4    猶大王西底家阿，你還要聽耶和華的話。耶和華論到你如此說，你必不被刀劍殺死，
Yet hear the word of the LORD, O Zedekiah king of Judah; Thus saith the LORD of thee, Thou shalt not die by the sword:

34:5    你必平安而死，人必為你焚燒物件，好像為你列祖，就是在你以前的先王焚燒一般。人必為你舉哀，說，哀哉。我主阿。耶和華說，這話是我說的。
But thou shalt die in peace: and with the burnings of thy fathers, the former kings which were before thee, so shall they burn odours for thee; and they will lament thee, saying, Ah lord! for I have pronounced the word, saith the LORD.

34:6    於是，先知耶利米在耶路撒冷將這一切話告訴猶大王西底家。
Then Jeremiah the prophet spake all these words unto Zedekiah king of Judah in Jerusalem,

34:7    那時，巴比倫王的軍隊正攻打耶路撒冷，又攻打猶大所剩下的城邑，就是拉吉和亞西加。原來猶大的堅固城只剩下這兩座。
When the king of Babylon's army fought against Jerusalem, and against all the cities of Judah that were left, against Lachish, and against Azekah: for these defenced cities remained of the cities of Judah.

34:8    *
This is the word that came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, after that the king Zedekiah had made a covenant with all the people which were at Jerusalem, to proclaim liberty unto them;

34:9    西底家王與耶路撒冷的眾民立約，要向他們宣告自由，叫各人任他希伯來的僕人和婢女自由出去，誰也不可使他的一個猶大弟兄作奴僕。（此後，有耶和華的話臨到耶利米。）
That every man should let his manservant, and every man his maidservant, being an Hebrew or an Hebrewess, go free; that none should serve himself of them, to wit, of a Jew his brother.

34:10    所有立約的首領和眾民就任他的僕人婢女自由出去，誰也不再叫他們作奴僕。大家都順從，將他們釋放了。
Now when all the princes, and all the people, which had entered into the covenant, heard that every one should let his manservant, and every one his maidservant, go free, that none should serve themselves of them any more, then they obeyed, and let them go.

34:11    後來卻又反悔，叫所任去自由的僕人婢女回來，勉強他們仍為僕婢。
But afterward they turned, and caused the servants and the handmaids, whom they had let go free, to return, and brought them into subjection for servants and for handmaids.

34:12    因此耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Therefore the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

34:13    耶和華以色列的神如此說，我將你們的列祖從埃及地為奴之家領出來的時候，與他們立約說，
Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; I made a covenant with your fathers in the day that I brought them forth out of the land of Egypt, out of the house of bondmen, saying,

34:14    你的一個希伯來弟兄若賣給你，服事你六年，到第七年你們各人就要任他自由出去。只是你們列祖不聽從我，也不側耳而聽。
At the end of seven years let ye go every man his brother an Hebrew, which hath been sold unto thee; and when he hath served thee six years, thou shalt let him go free from thee: but your fathers hearkened not unto me, neither inclined their ear.

34:15    如今你們迴轉，行我眼中看為正的事，各人向鄰舍宣告自由，並且在稱為我名下的殿中，在我面前立約。
And ye were now turned, and had done right in my sight, in proclaiming liberty every man to his neighbour; and ye had made a covenant before me in the house which is called by my name:

34:16    你們卻又反悔，褻瀆我的名，各人叫所任去隨意自由的僕人婢女回來，勉強他們仍為僕婢。
But ye turned and polluted my name, and caused every man his servant, and every man his handmaid, whom he had set at liberty at their pleasure, to return, and brought them into subjection, to be unto you for servants and for handmaids.

34:17    所以耶和華如此說，你們沒有聽從我，各人向弟兄鄰舍宣告自由。看哪。我向你們宣告一樣自由，就是使你們自由於刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫之下，並且使你們在天下萬國中拋來拋去。這是耶和華的話。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Ye have not hearkened unto me, in proclaiming liberty, every one to his brother, and every man to his neighbour: behold, I proclaim a liberty for you, saith the LORD, to the sword, to the pestilence, and to the famine; and I will make you to be removed into all the kingdoms of the earth.

34:18    *
And I will give the men that have transgressed my covenant, which have not performed the words of the covenant which they had made before me, when they cut the calf in twain, and passed between the parts thereof,

34:19    猶大的首領，耶路撒冷的首領，太監，祭司，和國中的眾民曾將牛犢劈開，分成兩半，從其中經過，在我面前立約。後來又違揹我的約，不遵行這約上的話。
The princes of Judah, and the princes of Jerusalem, the eunuchs, and the priests, and all the people of the land, which passed between the parts of the calf;

34:20    我必將他們交在仇敵和尋索其命的人手中。他們的屍首必給空中的飛鳥和地上的野獸作食物。
I will even give them into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of them that seek their life: and their dead bodies shall be for meat unto the fowls of the heaven, and to the beasts of the earth.

34:21    並且我必將猶大王西底家和他的首領交在他們仇敵和尋索其命的人，與那暫離你們而去巴比倫王軍隊的手中。
And Zedekiah king of Judah and his princes will I give into the hand of their enemies, and into the hand of them that seek their life, and into the hand of the king of Babylon's army, which are gone up from you.

34:22    耶和華說，我必吩咐他們回到這城，攻打這城，將城攻取，用火焚燒。我也要使猶大的城邑變為荒場，無人居住。
Behold, I will command, saith the LORD, and cause them to return to this city; and they shall fight against it, and take it, and burn it with fire: and I will make the cities of Judah a desolation without an inhabitant.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


35:1    當猶大王約西亞之子約雅敬的時候，耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
The word which came unto Jeremiah from the LORD in the days of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, saying,

35:2    你去見利甲族的人，和他們說話，領他們進入耶和華殿的一間屋子，給他們酒喝。
Go unto the house of the Rechabites, and speak unto them, and bring them into the house of the LORD, into one of the chambers, and give them wine to drink.

35:3    我就將哈巴洗尼雅的孫子雅利米雅的兒子雅撒尼亞和他弟兄，並他眾子，以及利甲全族的人，
Then I took Jaazaniah the son of Jeremiah, the son of Habaziniah, and his brethren, and all his sons, and the whole house of the Rechabites;

35:4    領到耶和華的殿，進入神人伊基大利的兒子哈難眾子的屋子。那屋子在首領的屋子旁邊，在沙龍之子把門的瑪西雅屋子以上。
And I brought them into the house of the LORD, into the chamber of the sons of Hanan, the son of Igdaliah, a man of God, which was by the chamber of the princes, which was above the chamber of Maaseiah the son of Shallum, the keeper of the door:

35:5    於是我在利甲族人面前設擺盛滿酒的碗和杯，對他們說，請你們喝酒。
And I set before the sons of the house of the Rechabites pots full of wine, and cups, and I said unto them, Drink ye wine.

35:6    他們卻說，我們不喝酒。因為我們先祖利甲的兒子約拿達曾吩咐我們說，你們與你們的子孫永不可喝酒，
But they said, We will drink no wine: for Jonadab the son of Rechab our father commanded us, saying, Ye shall drink no wine, neither ye, nor your sons for ever:

35:7    也不可蓋房，撒種，栽種葡萄園，但一生的年日要住帳棚，使你們的日子在寄居之地得以延長。
Neither shall ye build house, nor sow seed, nor plant vineyard, nor have any: but all your days ye shall dwell in tents; that ye may live many days in the land where ye be strangers.

35:8    凡我們先祖利甲的兒子約拿達所吩咐我們的話，我們都聽從了。我們和我們的妻子兒女一生的年日都不喝酒，
Thus have we obeyed the voice of Jonadab the son of Rechab our father in all that he hath charged us, to drink no wine all our days, we, our wives, our sons, nor our daughters;

35:9    也不蓋房居住，也沒有葡萄園，田地，和種子，
Nor to build houses for us to dwell in: neither have we vineyard, nor field, nor seed:

35:10    但住帳棚，聽從我們先祖約拿達的話，照他所吩咐我們的去行。
But we have dwelt in tents, and have obeyed, and done according to all that Jonadab our father commanded us.

35:11    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒上此地來，我們因怕迦勒底的軍隊和亞蘭的軍隊，就說，來吧，我們到耶路撒冷去。這樣，我們才住在耶路撒冷。
But it came to pass, when Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came up into the land, that we said, Come, and let us go to Jerusalem for fear of the army of the Chaldeans, and for fear of the army of the Syrians: so we dwell at Jerusalem.

35:12    耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah, saying,

35:13    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你去對猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民說，耶和華說，你們不受教訓，不聽從我的話嗎。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Go and tell the men of Judah and the inhabitants of Jerusalem, Will ye not receive instruction to hearken to my words? saith the LORD.

35:14    利甲的兒子約拿達所吩咐他子孫不可喝酒的話，他們已經遵守，直到今日也不喝酒，因為他們聽從先祖的吩咐。我從早起來警戒你們，你們卻不聽從我。
The words of Jonadab the son of Rechab, that he commanded his sons not to drink wine, are performed; for unto this day they drink none, but obey their father's commandment: notwithstanding I have spoken unto you, rising early and speaking; but ye hearkened not unto me.

35:15    我從早起來，差遣我的僕人眾先知去，說，你們各人當回頭，離開惡道，改正行為，不隨從事奉別神，就必住在我所賜給你們和你們列祖的地上。只是你們沒有聽從我，也沒有側耳而聽。
I have sent also unto you all my servants the prophets, rising up early and sending them, saying, Return ye now every man from his evil way, and amend your doings, and go not after other gods to serve them, and ye shall dwell in the land which I have given to you and to your fathers: but ye have not inclined your ear, nor hearkened unto me.

35:16    利甲的兒子約拿達的子孫能遵守先人所吩咐他們的命，這百姓卻沒有聽從我。
Because the sons of Jonadab the son of Rechab have performed the commandment of their father, which he commanded them; but this people hath not hearkened unto me:

35:17    因此，耶和華萬軍之神，以色列的神如此說，我要使我所說的一切災禍臨到猶大人和耶路撒冷的一切居民。因為我對他們說話，他們沒有聽從。我呼喚他們，他們沒有答應。
Therefore thus saith the LORD God of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring upon Judah and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem all the evil that I have pronounced against them: because I have spoken unto them, but they have not heard; and I have called unto them, but they have not answered.

35:18    耶利米對利甲族的人說，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，因你們聽從你們先祖約拿達的吩咐，謹守他的一切誡命，照他所吩咐你們的去行，
And Jeremiah said unto the house of the Rechabites, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Because ye have obeyed the commandment of Jonadab your father, and kept all his precepts, and done according unto all that he hath commanded you:

35:19    所以萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，利甲的兒子約拿達必永不缺人侍立在我面前。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Jonadab the son of Rechab shall not want a man to stand before me for ever.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


36:1    猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬第四年，耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
And it came to pass in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, that this word came unto Jeremiah from the LORD, saying,

36:2    你取一書卷，將我對你說攻擊以色列和猶大，並各國的一切話，從我對你說話的那日，就是從約西亞的日子起直到今日，都寫在其上。
Take thee a roll of a book, and write therein all the words that I have spoken unto thee against Israel, and against Judah, and against all the nations, from the day I spake unto thee, from the days of Josiah, even unto this day.

36:3    或者猶大家聽見我想要降與他們的一切災禍，各人就回頭，離開惡道，我好赦免他們的罪孽和罪惡。
It may be that the house of Judah will hear all the evil which I purpose to do unto them; that they may return every man from his evil way; that I may forgive their iniquity and their sin.

36:4    所以，耶利米召了尼利亞的兒子巴錄來。巴錄就從耶利米口中，將耶和華對耶利米所說的一切話寫在書卷上。
Then Jeremiah called Baruch the son of Neriah: and Baruch wrote from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the LORD, which he had spoken unto him, upon a roll of a book.

36:5    耶利米吩咐巴錄說，我被拘管，不能進耶和華的殿。
And Jeremiah commanded Baruch, saying, I am shut up; I cannot go into the house of the LORD:

36:6    所以你要去趁禁食的日子，在耶和華殿中將耶和華的話，就是你從我口中所寫在書卷上的話，念給百姓和一切從猶大城邑出來的人聽。
Therefore go thou, and read in the roll, which thou hast written from my mouth, the words of the LORD in the ears of the people in the LORD's house upon the fasting day: and also thou shalt read them in the ears of all Judah that come out of their cities.

36:7    或者他們在耶和華面前懇求各人回頭，離開惡道，因為耶和華向這百姓所說要發的怒氣和忿怒是大的。
It may be they will present their supplication before the LORD, and will return every one from his evil way: for great is the anger and the fury that the LORD hath pronounced against this people.

36:8    尼利亞的兒子巴錄就照先知耶利米一切所吩咐的去行，在耶和華的殿中從書上念耶和華的話。
And Baruch the son of Neriah did according to all that Jeremiah the prophet commanded him, reading in the book the words of the LORD in the LORD's house.

36:9    猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬第五年九月，耶路撒冷的眾民和那從猶大城邑來到耶路撒冷的眾民，在耶和華面前宣告禁食的日子，
And it came to pass in the fifth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, in the ninth month, that they proclaimed a fast before the LORD to all the people in Jerusalem, and to all the people that came from the cities of Judah unto Jerusalem.

36:10    巴錄就在耶和華殿的上院，耶和華殿的新門口，沙番的兒子文士基瑪利雅的屋內，唸書上耶利米的話給眾民聽。
Then read Baruch in the book the words of Jeremiah in the house of the LORD, in the chamber of Gemariah the son of Shaphan the scribe, in the higher court, at the entry of the new gate of the LORD's house, in the ears of all the people.

36:11    沙番的孫子，基瑪利雅的兒子米該亞聽見書上耶和華的一切話，
When Michaiah the son of Gemariah, the son of Shaphan, had heard out of the book all the words of the LORD,

36:12    他就下到王宮，進入文士的屋子。眾首領，就是文士以利沙瑪，示瑪雅的兒子第萊雅，亞革波的兒子以利拿單，沙番的兒子基瑪利雅，哈拿尼雅的兒子西底家，和其餘的首領都坐在那裡。
Then he went down into the king's house, into the scribe's chamber: and, lo, all the princes sat there, even Elishama the scribe, and Delaiah the son of Shemaiah, and Elnathan the son of Achbor, and Gemariah the son of Shaphan, and Zedekiah the son of Hananiah, and all the princes.

36:13    於是米該亞對他們述說他所聽見的一切話，就是巴錄向百姓念那書的時候所聽見的。
Then Michaiah declared unto them all the words that he had heard, when Baruch read the book in the ears of the people.

36:14    眾首領就打發古示的曾孫，示利米雅的孫子，尼探雅的兒子猶底到巴錄那裡，對他說，你將所念給百姓聽的書卷拿在手中到我們這裡來。尼利亞的兒子巴錄就手拿書卷來到他們那裡。
Therefore all the princes sent Jehudi the son of Nethaniah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Cushi, unto Baruch, saying, Take in thine hand the roll wherein thou hast read in the ears of the people, and come. So Baruch the son of Neriah took the roll in his hand, and came unto them.

36:15    他們對他說，請你坐下，念給我們聽。巴錄就念給他們聽。
And they said unto him, Sit down now, and read it in our ears. So Baruch read it in their ears.

36:16    他們聽見這一切話就害怕，面面相觀，對巴錄說，我們必須將這一切話告訴王。
Now it came to pass, when they had heard all the words, they were afraid both one and other, and said unto Baruch, We will surely tell the king of all these words.

36:17    他們問巴錄說，請你告訴我們，你怎樣從他口中寫這一切話呢。
And they asked Baruch, saying, Tell us now, How didst thou write all these words at his mouth?

36:18    巴錄回答說，他用口向我說這一切話，我就用筆墨寫在書上。
Then Baruch answered them, He pronounced all these words unto me with his mouth, and I wrote them with ink in the book.

36:19    眾首領對巴錄說，你和耶利米要去藏起來，不可叫人知道你們在哪裡。
Then said the princes unto Baruch, Go, hide thee, thou and Jeremiah; and let no man know where ye be.

36:20    眾首領進院見王，卻先把書卷存在文士以利沙瑪的屋內，以後將這一切話說給王聽。
And they went in to the king into the court, but they laid up the roll in the chamber of Elishama the scribe, and told all the words in the ears of the king.

36:21    王就打發猶底去拿這書卷來，他便從文士以利沙瑪的屋內取來，念給王和王左右侍立的眾首領聽。
So the king sent Jehudi to fetch the roll: and he took it out of Elishama the scribe's chamber. And Jehudi read it in the ears of the king, and in the ears of all the princes which stood beside the king.

36:22    那時正是九月，王坐在過冬的房屋裡，王的前面火盆中有燒著的火。
Now the king sat in the winterhouse in the ninth month: and there was a fire on the hearth burning before him.

36:23    猶底唸了三四篇（或作行），王就用文士的刀將書卷割破，扔在火盆中，直到全卷在火中燒盡了。
And it came to pass, that when Jehudi had read three or four leaves, he cut it with the penknife, and cast it into the fire that was on the hearth, until all the roll was consumed in the fire that was on the hearth.

36:24    王和聽見這一切話的臣僕都不懼怕，也不撕裂衣服。
Yet they were not afraid, nor rent their garments, neither the king, nor any of his servants that heard all these words.

36:25    以利拿單和第萊雅，並基瑪利雅懇求王不要燒這書卷，他卻不聽。
Nevertheless Elnathan and Delaiah and Gemariah had made intercession to the king that he would not burn the roll: but he would not hear them.

36:26    王就吩咐哈米勒的兒子（或作王的兒子）耶拉篾和亞斯列的兒子西萊雅，並亞伯疊的兒子示利米雅，去捉拿文士巴錄和先知耶利米。耶和華卻將他們隱藏。
But the king commanded Jerahmeel the son of Hammelech, and Seraiah the son of Azriel, and Shelemiah the son of Abdeel, to take Baruch the scribe and Jeremiah the prophet: but the LORD hid them.

36:27    王燒了書卷。其上有巴錄從耶利米口中所寫的話。以後耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Then the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah, after that the king had burned the roll, and the words which Baruch wrote at the mouth of Jeremiah, saying,

36:28    你再取一卷，將猶大王約雅敬所燒第一卷上的一切話寫在其上。
Take thee again another roll, and write in it all the former words that were in the first roll, which Jehoiakim the king of Judah hath burned.

36:29    論到猶大王約雅敬你要說，耶和華如此說，你燒了書卷，說，你為什麼在其上寫著，說巴比倫王必要來毀滅這地，使這地上絕了人民牲畜呢。
And thou shalt say to Jehoiakim king of Judah, Thus saith the LORD; Thou hast burned this roll, saying, Why hast thou written therein, saying, The king of Babylon shall certainly come and destroy this land, and shall cause to cease from thence man and beast?

36:30    所以耶和華論到猶大王約雅敬說，他後裔中必沒有人坐在大衛的寶座上。他的屍首必被拋棄，白日受炎熱，黑夜受寒霜。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of Jehoiakim king of Judah; He shall have none to sit upon the throne of David: and his dead body shall be cast out in the day to the heat, and in the night to the frost.

36:31    我必因他和他後裔，並他臣僕的罪孽刑罰他們。我要使我所說的一切災禍臨到他們和耶路撒冷的居民，並猶大人。只是他們不聽。
And I will punish him and his seed and his servants for their iniquity; and I will bring upon them, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and upon the men of Judah, all the evil that I have pronounced against them; but they hearkened not.

36:32    於是，耶利米又取一書卷交給尼利亞的兒子文士巴錄，他就從耶利米的口中寫了猶大王約雅敬所燒前捲上的一切話，另外又添了許多相彷的話。
Then took Jeremiah another roll, and gave it to Baruch the scribe, the son of Neriah; who wrote therein from the mouth of Jeremiah all the words of the book which Jehoiakim king of Judah had burned in the fire: and there were added besides unto them many like words.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 37 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


37:1    約西亞的兒子西底家代替約雅敬的兒子哥尼雅為王，是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒立在猶大地作王的。
And king Zedekiah the son of Josiah reigned instead of Coniah the son of Jehoiakim, whom Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon made king in the land of Judah.

37:2    但西底家和他的臣僕，並國中的百姓，都不聽從耶和華藉先知耶利米所說的話。
But neither he, nor his servants, nor the people of the land, did hearken unto the words of the LORD, which he spake by the prophet Jeremiah.

37:3    西底家王打發示利米雅的兒子猶甲，和祭司瑪西雅的兒子西番雅，去見先知耶利米，說，求你為我們禱告耶和華我們的神。
And Zedekiah the king sent Jehucal the son of Shelemiah and Zephaniah the son of Maaseiah the priest to the prophet Jeremiah, saying, Pray now unto the LORD our God for us.

37:4    那時耶利米在民中出入，因為他們還沒有把他囚在監裡。
Now Jeremiah came in and went out among the people: for they had not put him into prison.

37:5    法老的軍隊已經從埃及出來，那圍困耶路撒冷的迦勒底人聽見他們的風聲，就拔營離開耶路撒冷去了。
Then Pharaoh's army was come forth out of Egypt: and when the Chaldeans that besieged Jerusalem heard tidings of them, they departed from Jerusalem.

37:6    耶和華的話臨到先知耶利米說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto the prophet Jeremiah, saying,

37:7    耶和華以色列的神如此說，猶大王打發你們來求問我，你們要如此對他說，那出來幫助你們法老的軍隊必回埃及本國去。
Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel; Thus shall ye say to the king of Judah, that sent you unto me to enquire of me; Behold, Pharaoh's army, which is come forth to help you, shall return to Egypt into their own land.

37:8    迦勒底人必再來攻打這城，並要攻取，用火焚燒。
And the Chaldeans shall come again, and fight against this city, and take it, and burn it with fire.

37:9    耶和華如此說，你們不要自欺說迦勒底人必定離開我們，因為他們必不離開。
Thus saith the LORD; Deceive not yourselves, saying, The Chaldeans shall surely depart from us: for they shall not depart.

37:10    你們即便殺敗了與你們爭戰的迦勒底全軍，但剩下受傷的人也必各人從帳棚裡起來，用火焚燒這城。
For though ye had smitten the whole army of the Chaldeans that fight against you, and there remained but wounded men among them, yet should they rise up every man in his tent, and burn this city with fire.

37:11    迦勒底的軍隊因怕法老的軍隊，拔營離開耶路撒冷的時候，
And it came to pass, that when the army of the Chaldeans was broken up from Jerusalem for fear of Pharaoh's army,

37:12    耶利米就雜在民中出離耶路撒冷，要往便雅憫地去，在那裡得自己的地業。
Then Jeremiah went forth out of Jerusalem to go into the land of Benjamin, to separate himself thence in the midst of the people.

37:13    他到了便雅憫門那裡，有守門官名叫伊利雅，是哈拿尼亞的孫子，示利米雅的兒子，他就拿住先知耶利米，說，你是投降迦勒底人哪。
And when he was in the gate of Benjamin, a captain of the ward was there, whose name was Irijah, the son of Shelemiah, the son of Hananiah; and he took Jeremiah the prophet, saying, Thou fallest away to the Chaldeans.

37:14    耶利米說，你這是謊話，我並不是投降迦勒底人。伊利雅不聽他的話，就拿住他，解到首領那裡。
Then said Jeremiah, It is false; I fall not away to the Chaldeans. But he hearkened not to him: so Irijah took Jeremiah, and brought him to the princes.

37:15    首領惱怒耶利米，就打了他，將他囚在文士約拿單的房屋中，因為他們以這房屋當作監牢。
Wherefore the princes were wroth with Jeremiah, and smote him, and put him in prison in the house of Jonathan the scribe: for they had made that the prison.

37:16    耶利米來到獄中，進入牢房，在那裡囚了多日。
When Jeremiah was entered into the dungeon, and into the cabins, and Jeremiah had remained there many days;

37:17    西底家王打發人提出他來，在自己的宮內私下問他說，從耶和華有什麼話臨到沒有。耶利米說，有。又說，你必交在巴比倫王手中。
Then Zedekiah the king sent, and took him out: and the king asked him secretly in his house, and said, Is there any word from the LORD? And Jeremiah said, There is: for, said he, thou shalt be delivered into the hand of the king of Babylon.

37:18    耶利米又對西底家王說，我在什麼事上得罪你，或你的臣僕，或這百姓，你竟將我囚在監裡呢。
Moreover Jeremiah said unto king Zedekiah, What have I offended against thee, or against thy servants, or against this people, that ye have put me in prison?

37:19    對你們預言巴比倫王必不來攻擊你們和這地的先知，現今在哪裡呢。
Where are now your prophets which prophesied unto you, saying, The king of Babylon shall not come against you, nor against this land?

37:20    主我的王阿，求你現在垂聽，準我在你面前的懇求，不要使我回到文士約拿單的房屋中，免得我死在那裡。
Therefore hear now, I pray thee, O my lord the king: let my supplication, I pray thee, be accepted before thee; that thou cause me not to return to the house of Jonathan the scribe, lest I die there.

37:21    於是，西底家王下令，他們就把耶利米交在護衛兵的院中，每天從餅鋪街取一個餅給他，直到城中的餅用盡了。這樣，耶利米仍在護衛兵的院中。
Then Zedekiah the king commanded that they should commit Jeremiah into the court of the prison, and that they should give him daily a piece of bread out of the bakers' street, until all the bread in the city were spent. Thus Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 38 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


38:1    瑪坦的兒子示法提雅，巴施戶珥的兒子基大利，示利米雅的兒子猶甲，瑪基雅的兒子巴示戶珥聽見耶利米對眾人所說的話，說，
Then Shephatiah the son of Mattan, and Gedaliah the son of Pashur, and Jucal the son of Shelemiah, and Pashur the son of Malchiah, heard the words that Jeremiah had spoken unto all the people, saying,

38:2    耶和華如此說，住在這城裡的必遭刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫而死。但出去歸降迦勒底人的必得存活，就是以自己命為掠物的，必得存活。
Thus saith the LORD, He that remaineth in this city shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence: but he that goeth forth to the Chaldeans shall live; for he shall have his life for a prey, and shall live.

38:3    耶和華如此說，這城必要交在巴比倫王軍隊的手中，他必攻取這城。
Thus saith the LORD, This city shall surely be given into the hand of the king of Babylon's army, which shall take it.

38:4    於是首領對王說，求你將這人治死。因他向城裡剩下的兵丁和眾民說這樣的話，使他們的手發軟。這人不是求這百姓得平安，乃是叫他們受災禍。
Therefore the princes said unto the king, We beseech thee, let this man be put to death: for thus he weakeneth the hands of the men of war that remain in this city, and the hands of all the people, in speaking such words unto them: for this man seeketh not the welfare of this people, but the hurt.

38:5    西底家王說，他在你們手中，無論何事，王也不能與你們反對。
Then Zedekiah the king said, Behold, he is in your hand: for the king is not he that can do any thing against you.

38:6    他們就拿住耶利米，下在哈米勒的兒子（或作王的兒子）瑪基雅的牢獄裡。那牢獄在護衛兵的院中。他們用繩子將耶利米系下去。牢獄裡沒有水，只有淤泥，耶利米就陷在淤泥中。
Then took they Jeremiah, and cast him into the dungeon of Malchiah the son of Hammelech, that was in the court of the prison: and they let down Jeremiah with cords. And in the dungeon there was no water, but mire: so Jeremiah sunk in the mire.

38:7    在王宮的太監古實人以伯米勒，聽見他們將耶利米下了牢獄（那時王坐在便雅憫門口），
Now when Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, one of the eunuchs which was in the king's house, heard that they had put Jeremiah in the dungeon; the king then sitting in the gate of Benjamin;

38:8    以伯米勒就從王宮裡出來，對王說，
Ebedmelech went forth out of the king's house, and spake to the king, saying,

38:9    主我的王阿，這些人向先知耶利米一味地行惡，將他下在牢獄中。他在那裡必因飢餓而死，因為城中再沒有糧食。
My lord the king, these men have done evil in all that they have done to Jeremiah the prophet, whom they have cast into the dungeon; and he is like to die for hunger in the place where he is: for there is no more bread in the city.

38:10    王就吩咐古實人以伯米勒說，你從這裡帶領三十人，趁著先知耶利米未死以前，將他從牢獄中提上來。
Then the king commanded Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Take from hence thirty men with thee, and take up Jeremiah the prophet out of the dungeon, before he die.

38:11    於是以伯米勒帶領這些人同去，進入王宮，到庫房以下，從那裡取了些碎布和破爛的衣服，用繩子縋下牢獄去到耶利米那裡。
So Ebedmelech took the men with him, and went into the house of the king under the treasury, and took thence old cast clouts and old rotten rags, and let them down by cords into the dungeon to Jeremiah.

38:12    古實人以伯米勒對耶利米說，你用這些碎布和破爛的衣服放在繩子上，墊你的胳肢窩。耶利米就照樣行了。
And Ebedmelech the Ethiopian said unto Jeremiah, Put now these old cast clouts and rotten rags under thine armholes under the cords. And Jeremiah did so.

38:13    這樣，他們用繩子將耶利米從牢獄裡拉上來。耶利米仍在護衛兵的院中。
So they drew up Jeremiah with cords, and took him up out of the dungeon: and Jeremiah remained in the court of the prison.

38:14    西底家王打發人帶領先知耶利米，進耶和華殿中第三門裡見王。王就對耶利米說，我要問你一件事，你絲毫不可向我隱瞞。
Then Zedekiah the king sent, and took Jeremiah the prophet unto him into the third entry that is in the house of the LORD: and the king said unto Jeremiah, I will ask thee a thing; hide nothing from me.

38:15    耶利米對西底家說，我若告訴你，你豈不定要殺我嗎。我若勸戒你，你必不聽從我。
Then Jeremiah said unto Zedekiah, If I declare it unto thee, wilt thou not surely put me to death? and if I give thee counsel, wilt thou not hearken unto me?

38:16    西底家王就私下向耶利米說，我指著那造我們生命之永生的耶和華起誓，我必不殺你，也不將你交在尋索你命的人手中。
So Zedekiah the king sware secretly unto Jeremiah, saying, As the LORD liveth, that made us this soul, I will not put thee to death, neither will I give thee into the hand of these men that seek thy life.

38:17    耶利米對西底家說，耶和華萬軍之神，以色列的神如此說，你若出去歸降巴比倫王的首領，你的命就必存活，這城也不致被火焚燒，你和你的全家都必存活。
Then said Jeremiah unto Zedekiah, Thus saith the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel; If thou wilt assuredly go forth unto the king of Babylon's princes, then thy soul shall live, and this city shall not be burned with fire; and thou shalt live, and thine house:

38:18    你若不出去歸降巴比倫王的首領，這城必交在迦勒底人手中。他們必用火焚燒，你也不得脫離他們的手。
But if thou wilt not go forth to the king of Babylon's princes, then shall this city be given into the hand of the Chaldeans, and they shall burn it with fire, and thou shalt not escape out of their hand.

38:19    西底家王對耶利米說，我怕那些投降迦勒底人的猶大人，恐怕迦勒底人將我交在他們手中，他們戲弄我。
And Zedekiah the king said unto Jeremiah, I am afraid of the Jews that are fallen to the Chaldeans, lest they deliver me into their hand, and they mock me.

38:20    耶利米說，迦勒底人必不將你交出。求你聽從我對你所說耶和華的話，這樣你必得好處，你的命也必存活。
But Jeremiah said, They shall not deliver thee. Obey, I beseech thee, the voice of the LORD, which I speak unto thee: so it shall be well unto thee, and thy soul shall live.

38:21    你若不肯出去，耶和華指示我的話乃是這樣，
But if thou refuse to go forth, this is the word that the LORD hath shewed me:

38:22    猶大王宮裡所剩的婦女必都帶到巴比倫王的首領那裡。這些婦女必說，你知己的朋友催逼你，勝過你。見你的腳陷入淤泥中，就轉身退後了。
And, behold, all the women that are left in the king of Judah's house shall be brought forth to the king of Babylon's princes, and those women shall say, Thy friends have set thee on, and have prevailed against thee: thy feet are sunk in the mire, and they are turned away back.

38:23    人必將你的后妃和你的兒女帶到迦勒底人那裡。你也不得脫離他們的手，必被巴比倫王的手捉住。你也必使這城被火焚燒。
So they shall bring out all thy wives and thy children to the Chaldeans: and thou shalt not escape out of their hand, but shalt be taken by the hand of the king of Babylon: and thou shalt cause this city to be burned with fire.

38:24    西底家對耶利米說，不要使人知道這些話，你就不至於死。
Then said Zedekiah unto Jeremiah, Let no man know of these words, and thou shalt not die.

38:25    首領若聽見了我與你說話，就來見你，問你說，你對王說什麼話不要向我們隱瞞，我們就不殺你。王向你說什麼話也要告訴我們。你就對他們說，我在王面前懇求不要叫我回到約拿單的房屋死在那裡。
But if the princes hear that I have talked with thee, and they come unto thee, and say unto thee, Declare unto us now what thou hast said unto the king, hide it not from us, and we will not put thee to death; also what the king said unto thee:

38:26    你就對他們說，我在王面前懇求不要叫我回到約拿單的房屋死在那裡。
Then thou shalt say unto them, I presented my supplication before the king, that he would not cause me to return to Jonathan's house, to die there.

38:27    隨後眾首領來見耶利米，問他，他就照王所吩咐的一切話回答他們。他們不再與他說話，因為事情沒有洩漏。
Then came all the princes unto Jeremiah, and asked him: and he told them according to all these words that the king had commanded. So they left off speaking with him; for the matter was not perceived.

38:28    於是耶利米仍在護衛兵的院中，直到耶路撒冷被攻取的日子。
So Jeremiah abode in the court of the prison until the day that Jerusalem was taken: and he was there when Jerusalem was taken.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 39 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


39:1    猶大王西底家第九年十月，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒率領全軍來圍困耶路撒冷。
In the ninth year of Zedekiah king of Judah, in the tenth month, came Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon and all his army against Jerusalem, and they besieged it.

39:2    西底家十一年四月初九日，城被攻破。
And in the eleventh year of Zedekiah, in the fourth month, the ninth day of the month, the city was broken up.

39:3    耶路撒冷被攻取的時候，巴比倫王的首領尼甲沙利薛，三甲尼波，撒西金，拉撒力，尼甲沙利薛，拉墨，並巴比倫王其餘的一切首領都來坐在中門。
And all the princes of the king of Babylon came in, and sat in the middle gate, even Nergalsharezer, Samgarnebo, Sarsechim, Rabsaris, Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, with all the residue of the princes of the king of Babylon.

39:4    猶大王西底家和一切兵丁看見他們，就在夜間從靠近王園兩城中間的門出城逃跑，往亞拉巴逃去。
And it came to pass, that when Zedekiah the king of Judah saw them, and all the men of war, then they fled, and went forth out of the city by night, by the way of the king's garden, by the gate betwixt the two walls: and he went out the way of the plain.

39:5    迦勒底的軍隊追趕他們，在耶利哥的平原追上西底家，將他拿住，帶到哈馬地的利比拉，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒那裡。尼布甲尼撒就審判他。
But the Chaldeans' army pursued after them, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho: and when they had taken him, they brought him up to Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath, where he gave judgment upon him.



39:6    巴比倫王在利比拉，西底家眼前殺了他的眾子，又殺了猶大的一切貴胄，
Then the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah in Riblah before his eyes: also the king of Babylon slew all the nobles of Judah.

39:7    並且剜西底家的眼睛，用銅鏈鎖著他，要帶到巴比倫去。
Moreover he put out Zedekiah's eyes, and bound him with chains, to carry him to Babylon.

39:8    迦勒底人用火焚燒王宮和百姓的房屋，又拆毀耶路撒冷的城牆。
And the Chaldeans burned the king's house, and the houses of the people, with fire, and brake down the walls of Jerusalem.

39:9    那時，護衛長尼布撒拉旦將城裡所剩下的百姓和投降他的逃民，以及其餘的民都擄到巴比倫去了。
Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive into Babylon the remnant of the people that remained in the city, and those that fell away, that fell to him, with the rest of the people that remained.

39:10    護衛長尼布撒拉旦卻將民中毫無所有的窮人留在猶大地，當時給他們葡萄園和田地。
But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left of the poor of the people, which had nothing, in the land of Judah, and gave them vineyards and fields at the same time.

39:11    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒提到耶利米，囑咐護衛長尼布撒拉旦說，
Now Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon gave charge concerning Jeremiah to Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard, saying,

39:12    你領他去，好好地看待他，切不可害他。他對你怎嗎說，你就向他怎嗎行。
Take him, and look well to him, and do him no harm; but do unto him even as he shall say unto thee.

39:13    護衛長尼布撒拉旦和尼布沙斯班，拉撒力，尼甲沙利薛，拉墨，並巴比倫王的一切官長，
So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard sent, and Nebushasban, Rabsaris, and Nergalsharezer, Rabmag, and all the king of Babylon's princes;

39:14    打發人去，將耶利米從護衛兵院中提出來，交與沙番的孫子亞希甘的兒子基大利，帶回家去。於是耶利米住在民中。
Even they sent, and took Jeremiah out of the court of the prison, and committed him unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, that he should carry him home: so he dwelt among the people.

39:15    耶利米還囚在護衛兵院中的時候，耶和華的話臨到他說，
Now the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah, while he was shut up in the court of the prison, saying,

39:16    你去告訴古實人以伯米勒說，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我說降禍不降福的話必臨到這城，到那時必在你面前成就了。
Go and speak to Ebedmelech the Ethiopian, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will bring my words upon this city for evil, and not for good; and they shall be accomplished in that day before thee.

39:17    耶和華說，到那日我必拯救你，你必不致交在你所怕的人手中。
But I will deliver thee in that day, saith the LORD: and thou shalt not be given into the hand of the men of whom thou art afraid.

39:18    我定要搭救你，你不致倒在刀下，卻要以自己的命為掠物，因你倚靠我。這是耶和華說的。
For I will surely deliver thee, and thou shalt not fall by the sword, but thy life shall be for a prey unto thee: because thou hast put thy trust in me, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 40 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


40:1    耶利米鎖在耶路撒冷和猶大被擄到巴比倫的人中，護衛長尼布撒拉旦將他從拉瑪釋放以後，耶和華的話臨到耶利米。
The word that came to Jeremiah from the LORD, after that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had let him go from Ramah, when he had taken him being bound in chains among all that were carried away captive of Jerusalem and Judah, which were carried away captive unto Babylon.

40:2    護衛長將耶利米叫來，對他說，耶和華你的神曾說要降這禍與此地。
And the captain of the guard took Jeremiah, and said unto him, The LORD thy God hath pronounced this evil upon this place.

40:3    耶和華使這禍臨到，照他所說的行了。因為你們得罪耶和華，沒有聽從他的話，所以這事臨到你們。
Now the LORD hath brought it, and done according as he hath said: because ye have sinned against the LORD, and have not obeyed his voice, therefore this thing is come upon you.

40:4    現在我解開你手上的鏈子，你若看與我同往巴比倫去好，就可以去，我必厚待你。你若看與我同往巴比倫去不好，就不必去。看哪，全地在你面前，你以為哪裡美好，哪裡合宜，只管上那裡去吧。
And now, behold, I loose thee this day from the chains which were upon thine hand. If it seem good unto thee to come with me into Babylon, come; and I will look well unto thee: but if it seem ill unto thee to come with me into Babylon, forbear: behold, all the land is before thee: whither it seemeth good and convenient for thee to go, thither go.

40:5    耶利米還沒有回去，護衛長說，你可以回到沙番的孫子亞希甘的兒子基大利那裡去。現在巴比倫王立他作猶大城邑的省長。你可以在他那裡住在民中，不然，你看那裡合宜就可以上那裡去。於是護衛長送他糧食和禮物，釋放他去了。
Now while he was not yet gone back, he said, Go back also to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, whom the king of Babylon hath made governor over the cities of Judah, and dwell with him among the people: or go wheresoever it seemeth convenient unto thee to go. So the captain of the guard gave him victuals and a reward, and let him go.

40:6    耶利米就到米斯巴見亞希甘的兒子基大利，在他那裡住在境內剩下的民中。
Then went Jeremiah unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; and dwelt with him among the people that were left in the land.

40:7    在田野的一切軍長，和屬他們的人，聽見巴比倫王立了亞希甘的兒子基大利作境內的省長，並將沒有擄到巴比倫的男人，婦女，孩童，和境內極窮的人全交給他。
Now when all the captains of the forces which were in the fields, even they and their men, heard that the king of Babylon had made Gedaliah the son of Ahikam governor in the land, and had committed unto him men, and women, and children, and of the poor of the land, of them that were not carried away captive to Babylon;



40:8    於是軍長尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利，加利亞的兩個兒子約哈難和約拿單，單戶篾的兒子西萊雅，並尼陀法人以斐的眾子，瑪迦人的兒子耶撒尼亞和屬他們的人，都到米斯巴見基大利。
Then they came to Gedaliah to Mizpah, even Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and Johanan and Jonathan the sons of Kareah, and Seraiah the son of Tanhumeth, and the sons of Ephai the Netophathite, and Jezaniah the son of a Maachathite, they and their men.

40:9    沙番的孫子亞希甘的兒子基大利向他們和屬他們的人起誓說，不要怕服事迦勒底人，只管住在這地，服事巴比倫王，就可以得福。
And Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan sware unto them and to their men, saying, Fear not to serve the Chaldeans: dwell in the land, and serve the king of Babylon, and it shall be well with you.

40:10    至於我，我要住在米斯巴，伺候那到我們這裡來的迦勒底人。只是你們當積蓄酒，油，和夏天的果子，收在器皿裡，住在你們所佔的城邑中。
As for me, behold, I will dwell at Mizpah, to serve the Chaldeans, which will come unto us: but ye, gather ye wine, and summer fruits, and oil, and put them in your vessels, and dwell in your cities that ye have taken.

40:11    在摩押地和亞捫人中，在以東地和各國的一切猶大人，聽見巴比倫王留下些猶大人，並立沙番的孫子亞希甘的兒子基大利管理他們。
Likewise when all the Jews that were in Moab, and among the Ammonites, and in Edom, and that were in all the countries, heard that the king of Babylon had left a remnant of Judah, and that he had set over them Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan;

40:12    這一切猶大人就從所趕到的各處回來，到猶大地米斯巴的基大利那裡，又積蓄了許多的酒，並夏天的果子。
Even all the Jews returned out of all places whither they were driven, and came to the land of Judah, to Gedaliah, unto Mizpah, and gathered wine and summer fruits very much.

40:13    加利亞的兒子約哈難和在田野的一切軍長來到米斯巴見基大利，
Moreover Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were in the fields, came to Gedaliah to Mizpah,

40:14    對他說，亞捫人的王巴利斯打發尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利來要你的命，你知道嗎。亞希甘的兒子基大利卻不信他們的話。
And said unto him, Dost thou certainly know that Baalis the king of the Ammonites hath sent Ishmael the son of Nethaniah to slay thee? But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam believed them not.

40:15    加利亞的兒子約哈難在米斯巴私下對基大利說，求你容我去殺尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利，必無人知道。何必讓他要你的命，使聚集到你這裡來的猶大人都分散，以致猶大剩下的人都滅亡呢？
Then Johanan the son of Kareah spake to Gedaliah in Mizpah secretly, saying, Let me go, I pray thee, and I will slay Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and no man shall know it: wherefore should he slay thee, that all the Jews which are gathered unto thee should be scattered, and the remnant in Judah perish?

40:16    亞希甘的兒子基大利對加利亞的兒子約哈難說，你不可行這事，你所論以實瑪利的話是假的。
But Gedaliah the son of Ahikam said unto Johanan the son of Kareah, Thou shalt not do this thing: for thou speakest falsely of Ishmael.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 41 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


41:1    七月間，王的大臣宗室以利沙瑪的孫子，尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利帶著十個人，來到米斯巴見亞希甘的兒子基大利。他們在米斯巴一同吃飯。
Now it came to pass in the seventh month, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah the son of Elishama, of the seed royal, and the princes of the king, even ten men with him, came unto Gedaliah the son of Ahikam to Mizpah; and there they did eat bread together in Mizpah.

41:2    尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利和同他來的那十個人起來，用刀殺了沙番的孫子亞希甘的兒子基大利，就是巴比倫王所立為全地省長的。
Then arose Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and the ten men that were with him, and smote Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan with the sword, and slew him, whom the king of Babylon had made governor over the land.

41:3    以實瑪利又殺了在米斯巴，基大利那裡的一切猶大人和所遇見的迦勒底兵丁。
Ishmael also slew all the Jews that were with him, even with Gedaliah, at Mizpah, and the Chaldeans that were found there, and the men of war.

41:4    他殺了基大利，無人知道。
And it came to pass the second day after he had slain Gedaliah, and no man knew it,

41:5    第二天，有八十人從示劍和示羅，並撒馬利亞來，鬍鬚剃去，衣服撕裂，身體劃破，手拿素祭和乳香，要奉到耶和華的殿。
That there came certain from Shechem, from Shiloh, and from Samaria, even fourscore men, having their beards shaven, and their clothes rent, and having cut themselves, with offerings and incense in their hand, to bring them to the house of the LORD.

41:6    尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利出米斯巴迎接他們，隨走隨哭。遇見了他們，就對他們說，你們可以來見亞希甘的兒子基大利。
And Ishmael the son of Nethaniah went forth from Mizpah to meet them, weeping all along as he went: and it came to pass, as he met them, he said unto them, Come to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam.

41:7    他們到了城中，尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利和同著他的人就將他們殺了，拋在坑中。
And it was so, when they came into the midst of the city, that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah slew them, and cast them into the midst of the pit, he, and the men that were with him.

41:8    只是他們中間有十個人對以實瑪利說，不要殺我們，因為我們有許多大麥，小麥，油，蜜藏在田間。於是他住了手，沒有將他們殺在弟兄中間。
But ten men were found among them that said unto Ishmael, Slay us not: for we have treasures in the field, of wheat, and of barley, and of oil, and of honey. So he forbare, and slew them not among their brethren.

41:9    以實瑪利將所殺之人的屍首都拋在坑裡基大利的旁邊。這坑是從前亞撒王因怕以色列王巴沙所挖的。尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利將那些被殺的人填滿了坑。
Now the pit wherein Ishmael had cast all the dead bodies of the men, whom he had slain because of Gedaliah, was it which Asa the king had made for fear of Baasha king of Israel: and Ishmael the son of Nethaniah filled it with them that were slain.

41:10    以實瑪利將米斯巴剩下的人，就是眾公主和仍住在米斯巴所有的百姓，原是護衛長尼布撒拉旦交給亞希甘的兒子基大利的，都擄去了。尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利擄了他們，要往亞捫人那裡去。
Then Ishmael carried away captive all the residue of the people that were in Mizpah, even the king's daughters, and all the people that remained in Mizpah, whom Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had committed to Gedaliah the son of Ahikam: and Ishmael the son of Nethaniah carried them away captive, and departed to go over to the Ammonites.

41:11    加利亞的兒子約哈難，和同著他的眾軍長，聽見尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利所行的一切惡，
But when Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were with him, heard of all the evil that Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had done,

41:12    就帶領眾人前往，要和尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利爭戰，在基遍的大水旁（或作大水池旁）遇見他。
Then they took all the men, and went to fight with Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, and found him by the great waters that are in Gibeon.

41:13    以實瑪利那裡的眾人看見加利亞的兒子約哈難和同著他的眾軍長，就都歡喜。
Now it came to pass, that when all the people which were with Ishmael saw Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were with him, then they were glad.

41:14    這樣，以實瑪利從米斯巴所擄去的眾人都轉身歸加利亞的兒子約哈難去了。
So all the people that Ishmael had carried away captive from Mizpah cast about and returned, and went unto Johanan the son of Kareah.

41:15    尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利和八個人脫離約哈難的手，逃往亞捫人那裡去了。
But Ishmael the son of Nethaniah escaped from Johanan with eight men, and went to the Ammonites.

41:16    尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利殺了亞希甘的兒子基大利，從米斯巴將剩下的一切百姓，兵丁，婦女，孩童，太監擄到基遍之後，加利亞的兒子約哈難和同著他的眾軍長將他們都奪回來，
Then took Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces that were with him, all the remnant of the people whom he had recovered from Ishmael the son of Nethaniah, from Mizpah, after that he had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, even mighty men of war, and the women, and the children, and the eunuchs, whom he had brought again from Gibeon:

41:17    帶到靠近伯利恆的金罕寓（或作基羅特金罕）住下，要進入埃及去。
And they departed, and dwelt in the habitation of Chimham, which is by Bethlehem, to go to enter into Egypt,

41:18    因為尼探雅的兒子以實瑪利殺了巴比倫王所立為省長的亞希甘的兒子基大利，約哈難懼怕迦勒底人。
Because of the Chaldeans: for they were afraid of them, because Ishmael the son of Nethaniah had slain Gedaliah the son of Ahikam, whom the king of Babylon made governor in the land.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 42 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


42:1    眾軍長和加利亞的兒子約哈難，並何沙雅的兒子耶撒尼亞（又名亞撒利雅，見四十三章二節）以及眾百姓，從最小的到至大的都進前來，
Then all the captains of the forces, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and Jezaniah the son of Hoshaiah, and all the people from the least even unto the greatest, came near,

42:2    對先知耶利米說，求你準我們在你面前祈求，為我們這剩下的人禱告耶和華你的神。我們本來眾多，現在剩下的極少，這是你親眼所見的。
And said unto Jeremiah the prophet, Let, we beseech thee, our supplication be accepted before thee, and pray for us unto the LORD thy God, even for all this remnant; (for we are left but a few of many, as thine eyes do behold us:)

42:3    願耶和華你的神指示我們所當走的路，所當作的事。
That the LORD thy God may shew us the way wherein we may walk, and the thing that we may do.

42:4    先知耶利米對他們說，我已經聽見你們了，我必照著你們的話禱告耶和華你們的神。耶和華無論回答什麼，我必都告訴你們，毫不隱瞞。
Then Jeremiah the prophet said unto them, I have heard you; behold, I will pray unto the LORD your God according to your words; and it shall come to pass, that whatsoever thing the LORD shall answer you, I will declare it unto you; I will keep nothing back from you.

42:5    於是他們對耶利米說，我們若不照耶和華你的神差遣你來說的一切話行，願耶和華在我們中間作真實誠信的見證。
Then they said to Jeremiah, The LORD be a true and faithful witness between us, if we do not even according to all things for the which the LORD thy God shall send thee to us.

42:6    我們現在請你到耶和華我們的神面前，他說的無論是好是歹，我們都必聽從。我們聽從耶和華我們神的話，就可以得福。
Whether it be good, or whether it be evil, we will obey the voice of the LORD our God, to whom we send thee; that it may be well with us, when we obey the voice of the LORD our God.

42:7    過了十天，耶和華的話臨到耶利米。
And it came to pass after ten days, that the word of the LORD came unto Jeremiah.

42:8    他就將加利亞的兒子約哈難和同著他的眾軍長，並眾百姓，從最小的到至大的都叫了來，
Then called he Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces which were with him, and all the people from the least even to the greatest,

42:9    對他們說，耶和華以色列的神，就是你們請我在他面前為你們祈求的主，如此說，
And said unto them, Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, unto whom ye sent me to present your supplication before him;

42:10    你們若仍住在這地，我就建立你們，必不拆毀，栽植你們，並不拔出，因我為降與你們的災禍後悔了。
If ye will still abide in this land, then will I build you, and not pull you down, and I will plant you, and not pluck you up: for I repent me of the evil that I have done unto you.

42:11    不要怕你們所怕的巴比倫王。耶和華說，不要怕他。因為我與你們同在，要拯救你們脫離他的手。
Be not afraid of the king of Babylon, of whom ye are afraid; be not afraid of him, saith the LORD: for I am with you to save you, and to deliver you from his hand.

42:12    我也要使他發憐憫，好憐憫你們，叫你們歸回本地。
And I will shew mercies unto you, that he may have mercy upon you, and cause you to return to your own land.

42:13    倘若你們說，我們不住在這地，以致不聽從耶和華你們神的話，
But if ye say, We will not dwell in this land, neither obey the voice of the LORD your God,

42:14    說，我們不住這地，卻要進入埃及地，在那裡看不見爭戰，聽不見角聲，也不致無食飢餓。我們必住在那裡。
Saying, No; but we will go into the land of Egypt, where we shall see no war, nor hear the sound of the trumpet, nor have hunger of bread; and there will we dwell:

42:15    你們所剩下的猶大人哪，現在要聽耶和華的話。萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們若定意要進入埃及，在那裡寄居，
And now therefore hear the word of the LORD, ye remnant of Judah; Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; If ye wholly set your faces to enter into Egypt, and go to sojourn there;

42:16    你們所懼怕的刀劍在埃及地必追上你們。你們所懼怕的饑荒在埃及要緊緊地跟隨你們。你們必死在那裡。
Then it shall come to pass, that the sword, which ye feared, shall overtake you there in the land of Egypt, and the famine, whereof ye were afraid, shall follow close after you there in Egypt; and there ye shall die.

42:17    凡定意要進入埃及在那裡寄居的必遭刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫而死，無一人存留，逃脫我所降與他們的災禍。
So shall it be with all the men that set their faces to go into Egypt to sojourn there; they shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence: and none of them shall remain or escape from the evil that I will bring upon them.

42:18    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我怎樣將我的怒氣和忿怒傾在耶路撒冷的居民身上，你們進入埃及的時候，我也必照樣將我的忿怒傾在你們身上，以致你們令人辱罵，驚駭，咒詛，羞辱，你們不得再見這地方。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; As mine anger and my fury hath been poured forth upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem; so shall my fury be poured forth upon you, when ye shall enter into Egypt: and ye shall be an execration, and an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach; and ye shall see this place no more.

42:19    所剩下的猶大人哪，耶和華論到你們說，不要進入埃及去。你們要確實地知道我今日警教你們了。
The LORD hath said concerning you, O ye remnant of Judah; Go ye not into Egypt: know certainly that I have admonished you this day.

42:20    你們行詭詐自害。因為你們請我到耶和華你們的神那裡，說，求你為我們禱告耶和華我們神，照耶和華我們的神一切所說的告訴我們，我們就必遵行。
For ye dissembled in your hearts, when ye sent me unto the LORD your God, saying, Pray for us unto the LORD our God; and according unto all that the LORD our God shall say, so declare unto us, and we will do it.

42:21    我今日將這話告訴你們，耶和華你們的神為你們的事差遣我到你們那裡說的，你們卻一樣沒有聽從。
And now I have this day declared it to you; but ye have not obeyed the voice of the LORD your God, nor any thing for the which he hath sent me unto you.

42:22    現在你們要確實地知道，你們在所要去寄居之地必遭刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫而死。
Now therefore know certainly that ye shall die by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence, in the place whither ye desire to go and to sojourn.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 43 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


43:1    耶利米向眾百姓說完了耶和華他們神的一切話，就是耶和華他們神差遣他去所說的一切話。
And it came to pass, that when Jeremiah had made an end of speaking unto all the people all the words of the LORD their God, for which the LORD their God had sent him to them, even all these words,

43:2    何沙雅的兒子亞撒利雅和加利亞的兒子約哈難，並一切狂傲的人，就對耶利米說，你說謊言。耶和華我們的神並沒有差遣你來說，你們不可進入埃及，在那裡寄居。
Then spake Azariah the son of Hoshaiah, and Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the proud men, saying unto Jeremiah, Thou speakest falsely: the LORD our God hath not sent thee to say, Go not into Egypt to sojourn there:

43:3    這是尼利亞的兒子巴錄挑唆你害我們，要將我們交在迦勒底人的手中，使我們有被殺的，有被擄到巴比倫去的。
But Baruch the son of Neriah setteth thee on against us, for to deliver us into the hand of the Chaldeans, that they might put us to death, and carry us away captives into Babylon.

43:4    於是加利亞的兒子約哈難和一切軍長，並眾百姓，不聽從耶和華的話住在猶大地。
So Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces, and all the people, obeyed not the voice of the LORD, to dwell in the land of Judah.

43:5    *
But Johanan the son of Kareah, and all the captains of the forces, took all the remnant of Judah, that were returned from all nations, whither they had been driven, to dwell in the land of Judah;

43:6    加利亞的兒子約哈難和一切軍長卻將所剩下的猶大人，就是從被趕到各國回來在猶大地寄居的男人，婦女，孩童，和眾公主，並護衛長尼布撒拉旦所留在沙番的孫子亞希甘的兒子基大利那裡的眾人，與先知耶利米，以及尼利亞的兒子巴錄，
Even men, and women, and children, and the king's daughters, and every person that Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard had left with Gedaliah the son of Ahikam the son of Shaphan, and Jeremiah the prophet, and Baruch the son of Neriah.

43:7    都帶入埃及地，到了答比匿。這是因他們不聽從耶和華的話。
So they came into the land of Egypt: for they obeyed not the voice of the LORD: thus came they even to Tahpanhes.

43:8    在答比匿，耶和華的話臨到耶利米說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto Jeremiah in Tahpanhes, saying,

43:9    你在猶大人眼前要用手拿幾塊大石頭，藏在砌磚的灰泥中，就是在答比匿法老的宮門那裡，
Take great stones in thine hand, and hide them in the clay in the brickkiln, which is at the entry of Pharaoh's house in Tahpanhes, in the sight of the men of Judah;

43:10    對他們說，萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必召我的僕人巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒來。在所藏的石頭上我要安置他的寶座。他必將光華的寶帳支搭在其上。
And say unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will send and take Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon, my servant, and will set his throne upon these stones that I have hid; and he shall spread his royal pavilion over them.

43:11    他要來攻擊埃及地，定為死亡的，必致死亡。定為擄掠的，必被擄掠。定為刀殺的，必交刀殺。
And when he cometh, he shall smite the land of Egypt, and deliver such as are for death to death; and such as are for captivity to captivity; and such as are for the sword to the sword.

43:12    我要在埃及神的廟中使火著起，巴比倫王要將廟宇焚燒，神像擄去。他要得（原文作披上）埃及地，好像牧人披上外衣，從那裡安然而去。
And I will kindle a fire in the houses of the gods of Egypt; and he shall burn them, and carry them away captives: and he shall array himself with the land of Egypt, as a shepherd putteth on his garment; and he shall go forth from thence in peace.

43:13    他必打碎埃及地伯示麥的柱像，用火焚燒神的廟宇。
He shall break also the images of Bethshemesh, that is in the land of Egypt; and the houses of the gods of the Egyptians shall he burn with fire.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 44 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


44:1    有臨到耶利米的話，論及一切住在埃及地的猶大人，就是住在密奪，答比匿，挪弗，巴忒羅境內的猶大人，說，
The word that came to Jeremiah concerning all the Jews which dwell in the land of Egypt, which dwell at Migdol, and at Tahpanhes, and at Noph, and in the country of Pathros, saying,

44:2    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我所降與耶路撒冷和猶大各城的一切災禍你們都看見了。那些城邑今日荒涼，無人居住。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Ye have seen all the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, and upon all the cities of Judah; and, behold, this day they are a desolation, and no man dwelleth therein,

44:3    這是因居民所行的惡，去燒香事奉別神，就是他們和你們，並你們列祖所不認識的神，惹我發怒。
Because of their wickedness which they have committed to provoke me to anger, in that they went to burn incense, and to serve other gods, whom they knew not, neither they, ye, nor your fathers.

44:4    我從早起來差遣我的僕人眾先知去說，你們切不要行我所厭惡這可憎之事。
Howbeit I sent unto you all my servants the prophets, rising early and sending them, saying, Oh, do not this abominable thing that I hate.

44:5    他們卻不聽從，不側耳而聽，不轉離惡事，仍向別神燒香。
But they hearkened not, nor inclined their ear to turn from their wickedness, to burn no incense unto other gods.

44:6    因此，我的怒氣和忿怒都倒出來，在猶大城邑中和耶路撒冷的街市上，如火著起，以致都荒廢淒涼，正如今日一樣。
Wherefore my fury and mine anger was poured forth, and was kindled in the cities of Judah and in the streets of Jerusalem; and they are wasted and desolate, as at this day.

44:7    現在耶和華萬軍之神，以色列的神如此說，你們為何作這大惡自害己命，使你們的男人，婦女，嬰孩，和吃奶的都從猶大中剪除，不留一人呢。
Therefore now thus saith the LORD, the God of hosts, the God of Israel; Wherefore commit ye this great evil against your souls, to cut off from you man and woman, child and suckling, out of Judah, to leave you none to remain;

44:8    就是因你們手所作的，在所去寄居的埃及地向別神燒香惹我發怒，使你們被剪除，在天下萬國中令人咒詛羞辱。
In that ye provoke me unto wrath with the works of your hands, burning incense unto other gods in the land of Egypt, whither ye be gone to dwell, that ye might cut yourselves off, and that ye might be a curse and a reproach among all the nations of the earth?

44:9    你們列祖的惡行，猶大列王和他們后妃的惡行，你們自己和你們妻子的惡行，就是在猶大地，耶路撒冷街上所行的，你們都忘了嗎。
Have ye forgotten the wickedness of your fathers, and the wickedness of the kings of Judah, and the wickedness of their wives, and your own wickedness, and the wickedness of your wives, which they have committed in the land of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem?

44:10    到如今還沒有懊悔，沒有懼怕，沒有遵行我在你們和你們列祖面前所設立的法度律例。
They are not humbled even unto this day, neither have they feared, nor walked in my law, nor in my statutes, that I set before you and before your fathers.

44:11    所以萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必向你們變臉降災，以致剪除猶大眾人。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will set my face against you for evil, and to cut off all Judah.

44:12    那定意進入埃及地，在那裡寄居的，就是所剩下的猶大人，我必使他們盡都滅絕，必在埃及地仆倒，必因刀劍饑荒滅絕。從最小的到至大的都必遭刀劍饑荒而死，以致令人辱罵，驚駭，咒詛，羞辱。
And I will take the remnant of Judah, that have set their faces to go into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, and they shall all be consumed, and fall in the land of Egypt; they shall even be consumed by the sword and by the famine: they shall die, from the least even unto the greatest, by the sword and by the famine: and they shall be an execration, and an astonishment, and a curse, and a reproach.

44:13    我怎樣用刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫刑罰耶路撒冷，也必照樣刑罰那些住在埃及地的猶大人。
For I will punish them that dwell in the land of Egypt, as I have punished Jerusalem, by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence:

44:14    甚至那進入埃及地寄居的，就是所剩下的猶大人，都不得逃脫，也不得存留歸回猶大地。他們心中甚想歸回居住之地。除了逃脫的以外，一個都不能歸回。
So that none of the remnant of Judah, which are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall escape or remain, that they should return into the land of Judah, to the which they have a desire to return to dwell there: for none shall return but such as shall escape.

44:15    那些住在埃及地巴忒羅知道自己妻子向別神燒香的，與旁邊站立的眾婦女，聚整合群，回答耶利米說，
Then all the men which knew that their wives had burned incense unto other gods, and all the women that stood by, a great multitude, even all the people that dwelt in the land of Egypt, in Pathros, answered Jeremiah, saying,

44:16    論到你奉耶和華的名向我們所說的話，我們必不聽從。
As for the word that thou hast spoken unto us in the name of the LORD, we will not hearken unto thee.

44:17    我們定要成就我們口中所出的一切話，向天後燒香，澆奠祭，按著我們與我們列祖，君王，首領在猶大的城邑中和耶路撒冷的街市上素常所行的一樣。因為那時我們吃飽飯，享福樂，並不見災禍。
But we will certainly do whatsoever thing goeth forth out of our own mouth, to burn incense unto the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto her, as we have done, we, and our fathers, our kings, and our princes, in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem: for then had we plenty of victuals, and were well, and saw no evil.

44:18    自從我們停止向天後燒香，澆奠祭，我們倒缺乏一切，又因刀劍饑荒滅絕。
But since we left off to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto her, we have wanted all things, and have been consumed by the sword and by the famine.

44:19    婦女說，我們向天後燒香，澆奠祭，作天后像的餅供奉她，向她澆奠祭，是外乎我們的丈夫嗎。
And when we burned incense to the queen of heaven, and poured out drink offerings unto her, did we make her cakes to worship her, and pour out drink offerings unto her, without our men?

44:20    耶利米對一切那樣回答他的男人婦女說，
Then Jeremiah said unto all the people, to the men, and to the women, and to all the people which had given him that answer, saying,

44:21    你們與你們列祖，君王，首領，並國內的百姓，在猶大城邑中和耶路撒冷街市上所燒的香，耶和華豈不記念，心中豈不思想嗎。
The incense that ye burned in the cities of Judah, and in the streets of Jerusalem, ye, and your fathers, your kings, and your princes, and the people of the land, did not the LORD remember them, and came it not into his mind?

44:22    耶和華因你們所作的惡，所行可憎的事，不能再容忍，所以你們的地荒涼，令人驚駭咒詛，無人居住，正如今日一樣。
So that the LORD could no longer bear, because of the evil of your doings, and because of the abominations which ye have committed; therefore is your land a desolation, and an astonishment, and a curse, without an inhabitant, as at this day.

44:23    你們燒香，得罪耶和華，沒有聽從他的話，沒有遵行他的律法，條例，法度，所以你們遭遇這災禍，正如今日一樣。
Because ye have burned incense, and because ye have sinned against the LORD, and have not obeyed the voice of the LORD, nor walked in his law, nor in his statutes, nor in his testimonies; therefore this evil is happened unto you, as at this day.

44:24    耶利米又對眾民和眾婦女說，你們在埃及地的一切猶大人當聽耶和華的話。
Moreover Jeremiah said unto all the people, and to all the women, Hear the word of the LORD, all Judah that are in the land of Egypt:

44:25    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，你們和你們的妻都口中說，手裡作，說，我們定要償還所許的願，向天後燒香，澆奠祭。現在你們只管堅定所許的願而償還吧。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saying; Ye and your wives have both spoken with your mouths, and fulfilled with your hand, saying, We will surely perform our vows that we have vowed, to burn incense to the queen of heaven, and to pour out drink offerings unto her: ye will surely accomplish your vows, and surely perform your vows.

44:26    所以你們住在埃及地的一切猶大人當聽耶和華的話。耶和華說，我指著我的大名起誓，在埃及全地，我的名不再被猶大一個人的口稱呼說，我指著主永生的耶和華起誓。
Therefore hear ye the word of the LORD, all Judah that dwell in the land of Egypt; Behold, I have sworn by my great name, saith the LORD, that my name shall no more be named in the mouth of any man of Judah in all the land of Egypt, saying, The Lord GOD liveth.

44:27    我向他們留意降禍不降福。在埃及地的一切猶大人必因刀劍，饑荒所滅，直到滅盡。
Behold, I will watch over them for evil, and not for good: and all the men of Judah that are in the land of Egypt shall be consumed by the sword and by the famine, until there be an end of them.

44:28    脫離刀劍，從埃及地歸回猶大地的人數很少。那進入埃及地要在那裡寄居的，就是所剩下的猶大人，必知道是誰的話立得住，是我的話呢。是他們的話呢。
Yet a small number that escape the sword shall return out of the land of Egypt into the land of Judah, and all the remnant of Judah, that are gone into the land of Egypt to sojourn there, shall know whose words shall stand, mine, or theirs.

44:29    耶和華說，我在這地方刑罰你們，必有預兆，使你們知道我降禍與你們的話必要立得住。
And this shall be a sign unto you, saith the LORD, that I will punish you in this place, that ye may know that my words shall surely stand against you for evil:

44:30    耶和華如此說，我必將埃及王法老合弗拉交在他仇敵和尋索其命的人手中，像我將猶大王西底家交在他仇敵，和尋索其命的巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒手中一樣。
Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will give Pharaohhophra king of Egypt into the hand of his enemies, and into the hand of them that seek his life; as I gave Zedekiah king of Judah into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, his enemy, and that sought his life.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 45 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


45:1    猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬第四年，尼利亞的兒子巴錄將先知耶利米口中所說的話寫在書上。耶利米說，
The word that Jeremiah the prophet spake unto Baruch the son of Neriah, when he had written these words in a book at the mouth of Jeremiah, in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah, saying,

45:2    巴錄阿，耶和華以色列的神說，
Thus saith the LORD, the God of Israel, unto thee, O Baruch:

45:3    巴錄（原文作你）曾說，哀哉。耶和華將憂愁加在我的痛苦上，我因唉哼而睏乏，不得安歇。
Thou didst say, Woe is me now! for the LORD hath added grief to my sorrow; I fainted in my sighing, and I find no rest.

45:4    你要這樣告訴他，耶和華如此說，我所建立的，我必拆毀。我所栽植的，我必拔出。在全地我都如此行。
Thus shalt thou say unto him, The LORD saith thus; Behold, that which I have built will I break down, and that which I have planted I will pluck up, even this whole land.

45:5    你為自己圖謀大事嗎。不要圖謀。我必使災禍臨到凡有血氣的。但你無論往哪裡去，我必使你以自己的命為掠物。這是耶和華說的。
And seekest thou great things for thyself? seek them not: for, behold, I will bring evil upon all flesh, saith the LORD: but thy life will I give unto thee for a prey in all places whither thou goest.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 46 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


46:1    耶和華論列國的話臨到先知耶利米。
The word of the LORD which came to Jeremiah the prophet against the Gentiles;

46:2    論到關乎埃及王法老尼哥的軍隊，這軍隊安營在幼發拉底河邊的迦基米施，是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒在猶大王約西亞的兒子約雅敬第四年所打敗的。
Against Egypt, against the army of Pharaohnecho king of Egypt, which was by the river Euphrates in Carchemish, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon smote in the fourth year of Jehoiakim the son of Josiah king of Judah.

46:3    你們要預備大小盾牌，往前上陣。
Order ye the buckler and shield, and draw near to battle.

46:4    你們套上車，騎上馬。頂盔站立，磨槍貫甲。
Harness the horses; and get up, ye horsemen, and stand forth with your helmets; furbish the spears, and put on the brigandines.

46:5    我為何看見他們驚惶轉身退後呢。他們的勇士打敗了，急忙逃跑，並不回頭。驚嚇四圍都有。這是耶和華說的。
Wherefore have I seen them dismayed and turned away back? and their mighty ones are beaten down, and are fled apace, and look not back: for fear was round about, saith the LORD.

46:6    不要容快跑的逃避。不要容勇士逃脫（或作快跑的不能逃避。勇士不能逃脫）。他們在北方幼發拉底河邊絆跌仆倒。
Let not the swift flee away, nor the mighty man escape; they shall stumble, and fall toward the north by the river Euphrates.

46:7    像尼羅河漲發，像江河之水翻騰的是誰呢。
Who is this that cometh up as a flood, whose waters are moved as the rivers?

46:8    埃及像尼羅河漲發，像江河的水翻騰。他說，我要漲發遮蓋遍地。我要毀滅城邑和其中的居民。
Egypt riseth up like a flood, and his waters are moved like the rivers; and he saith, I will go up, and will cover the earth; I will destroy the city and the inhabitants thereof.

46:9    馬匹上去吧。車輛急行吧。勇士，就是手拿盾牌的古實人和弗人（又作利比亞人），並拉弓的路德族，都出去吧。
Come up, ye horses; and rage, ye chariots; and let the mighty men come forth; the Ethiopians and the Libyans, that handle the shield; and the Lydians, that handle and bend the bow.

46:10    那日是主萬軍之耶和華報仇的日子，要向敵人報仇。刀劍必吞吃得飽，飲血飲足。因為主萬軍之耶和華在北方幼幼發拉底河邊有獻祭的事。
For this is the day of the Lord GOD of hosts, a day of vengeance, that he may avenge him of his adversaries: and the sword shall devour, and it shall be satiate and made drunk with their blood: for the Lord GOD of hosts hath a sacrifice in the north country by the river Euphrates.

46:11    埃及的民（原文作處女）哪，可以上基列取乳香去。你雖多服良藥，總是徒然，不得治好。
Go up into Gilead, and take balm, O virgin, the daughter of Egypt: in vain shalt thou use many medicines; for thou shalt not be cured.

46:12    列國聽見你的羞辱，遍地滿了你的哀聲。勇士與勇士彼此相碰，一齊跌倒。
The nations have heard of thy shame, and thy cry hath filled the land: for the mighty man hath stumbled against the mighty, and they are fallen both together.

46:13    耶和華對先知耶利米所說的話，論到巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒要來攻擊埃及地，
The word that the LORD spake to Jeremiah the prophet, how Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon should come and smite the land of Egypt.

46:14    你們要傳揚在埃及，宣告在密奪，報告在挪弗，答比匿說，要站起出隊，自作準備，因為刀劍在你四圍施行吞滅的事。
Declare ye in Egypt, and publish in Migdol, and publish in Noph and in Tahpanhes: say ye, Stand fast, and prepare thee; for the sword shall devour round about thee.

46:15    你的壯士為何被衝去呢。他們站立不住。因為耶和華驅逐他們，
Why are thy valiant men swept away? they stood not, because the LORD did drive them.

46:16    使多人絆跌。他們也彼此撞倒，說，起來吧。我們再往本民本地去，好躲避欺壓的刀劍。
He made many to fall, yea, one fell upon another: and they said, Arise, and let us go again to our own people, and to the land of our nativity, from the oppressing sword.

46:17    他們在那裡喊叫說，埃及王法老不過是個聲音（或作已經敗亡）。他已錯過所定的時候了。
They did cry there, Pharaoh king of Egypt is but a noise; he hath passed the time appointed.

46:18    君王名為萬軍之耶和華的說，我指著我的永生起誓，尼布甲尼撒（原文作他）來的勢派必像他泊在眾山之中，像迦密在海邊一樣。
As I live, saith the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts, Surely as Tabor is among the mountains, and as Carmel by the sea, so shall he come.

46:19    住在埃及的民哪（原文作女子），要預備擄去時所用的物件。因為挪弗必成為荒場，且被燒燬，無人居住。
O thou daughter dwelling in Egypt, furnish thyself to go into captivity: for Noph shall be waste and desolate without an inhabitant.

46:20    埃及是肥美的母牛犢。但出於北方的毀滅（或作牛虻）來到了。來到了。
Egypt is like a very fair heifer, but destruction cometh; it cometh out of the north.

46:21    其中的僱勇好像圈裡的肥牛犢，他們轉身退後，一齊逃跑，站立不住。因為他們遭難的日子，追討的時候已經臨到。
Also her hired men are in the midst of her like fatted bullocks; for they also are turned back, and are fled away together: they did not stand, because the day of their calamity was come upon them, and the time of their visitation.

46:22    其中的聲音好像蛇行一樣。敵人要成隊而來，如砍伐樹木的手拿斧子攻擊他。
The voice thereof shall go like a serpent; for they shall march with an army, and come against her with axes, as hewers of wood.

46:23    耶和華說，埃及的樹林雖然不能尋察（或作穿不過），敵人卻要砍伐，因他們多於蝗蟲，不可勝數。
They shall cut down her forest, saith the LORD, though it cannot be searched; because they are more than the grasshoppers, and are innumerable.

46:24    埃及的民（原文作女子）必然蒙羞，必交在北方人的手中。
The daughter of Egypt shall be confounded; she shall be delivered into the hand of the people of the north.

46:25    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神說，我必刑罰挪的亞捫（埃及尊大之神）和法老，並埃及與埃及的神，以及君王，也必刑罰法老和倚靠他的人。
The LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, saith; Behold, I will punish the multitude of No, and Pharaoh, and Egypt, with their gods, and their kings; even Pharaoh, and all them that trust in him:

46:26    我要將他們交付尋索其命之人的手和巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒與他臣僕的手。以後埃及必再有人居住，與從前一樣。這是耶和華說的。
And I will deliver them into the hand of those that seek their lives, and into the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, and into the hand of his servants: and afterward it shall be inhabited, as in the days of old, saith the LORD.

46:27    我的僕人雅各阿，不要懼怕。以色列阿，不要驚惶。因我要從遠方拯救你，從被擄到之地拯救你的後裔。雅各必回來，得享平靖安逸，無人使他害怕。
But fear not thou, O my servant Jacob, and be not dismayed, O Israel: for, behold, I will save thee from afar off, and thy seed from the land of their captivity; and Jacob shall return, and be in rest and at ease, and none shall make him afraid.

46:28    我的僕人雅各阿，不要懼怕。因我與你同在。我要將我所趕你到的那些國滅絕淨盡，卻不將你滅絕淨盡，倒要從寬懲治你，萬不能不罰你（不罰你或作以你為無罪）。這是耶和華說的。
Fear thou not, O Jacob my servant, saith the LORD: for I am with thee; for I will make a full end of all the nations whither I have driven thee: but I will not make a full end of thee, but correct thee in measure; yet will I not leave thee wholly unpunished.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 47 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


47:1    法老攻擊迦薩之先，有耶和華論非利士人的話臨到先知耶利米。
The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet against the Philistines, before that Pharaoh smote Gaza.

47:2    耶和華如此說，有水從北方發起，成為漲溢的河，要漲過遍地和其中所有的，並城和其中所住的。人必呼喊。境內的居民都必哀號。
Thus saith the LORD; Behold, waters rise up out of the north, and shall be an overflowing flood, and shall overflow the land, and all that is therein; the city, and them that dwell therein: then the men shall cry, and all the inhabitants of the land shall howl.

47:3    聽見敵人壯馬蹄跳的響聲和戰車隆隆，車輪轟轟。為父的手就發軟，不回頭看顧兒女。
At the noise of the stamping of the hoofs of his strong horses, at the rushing of his chariots, and at the rumbling of his wheels, the fathers shall not look back to their children for feebleness of hands;

47:4    因為日子將到，要毀滅一切非利士人，剪除幫助推羅，西頓所剩下的人。原來耶和華必毀滅非利士人，就是迦斐託海島餘剩的人。
Because of the day that cometh to spoil all the Philistines, and to cut off from Tyrus and Zidon every helper that remaineth: for the LORD will spoil the Philistines, the remnant of the country of Caphtor.

47:5    迦薩成了光禿。平原中所剩的亞實基倫歸於無有。你用刀劃身，要到幾時呢。
Baldness is come upon Gaza; Ashkelon is cut off with the remnant of their valley: how long wilt thou cut thyself?

47:6    耶和華的刀劍哪，你到幾時才止息呢。你要入鞘，安靖不動。
O thou sword of the LORD, how long will it be ere thou be quiet? put up thyself into thy scabbard, rest, and be still.

47:7    耶和華既吩咐你攻擊亞實基倫和海邊之地，他已經派定你，焉能止息呢。
How can it be quiet, seeing the LORD hath given it a charge against Ashkelon, and against the sea shore? there hath he appointed it.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 48 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


48:1    論摩押。萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，尼波有禍了。因變為荒場。基列亭蒙羞被攻取。米斯迦蒙羞被毀壞。
Against Moab thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Woe unto Nebo! for it is spoiled: Kiriathaim is confounded and taken: Misgab is confounded and dismayed.

48:2    摩押不再被稱讚。有人在希實本設計謀害她，說，來吧。我們將她剪除，不再成國。瑪得緬哪，你也必默默無聲。刀劍必追趕你。
There shall be no more praise of Moab: in Heshbon they have devised evil against it; come, and let us cut it off from being a nation. Also thou shalt be cut down, O Madmen; the sword shall pursue thee.

48:3    從何羅念有喊荒涼大毀滅的哀聲，
A voice of crying shall be from Horonaim, spoiling and great destruction.

48:4    摩押毀滅了。她的孩童（或作家僮）發哀聲，使人聽見。
Moab is destroyed; her little ones have caused a cry to be heard.

48:5    人上魯希坡隨走隨哭，因為在何羅唸的下坡聽見毀滅的哀聲。
For in the going up of Luhith continual weeping shall go up; for in the going down of Horonaim the enemies have heard a cry of destruction.

48:6    你們要奔逃，自救性命，獨自居住，好像曠野的杜鬆。
Flee, save your lives, and be like the heath in the wilderness.

48:7    你因倚靠自己所作的和自己的財寶必被攻取。基抹和屬他的祭司，首領也要一同被擄去。
For because thou hast trusted in thy works and in thy treasures, thou shalt also be taken: and Chemosh shall go forth into captivity with his priests and his princes together.

48:8    行毀滅的必來到各城，並無一城得免。山谷必致敗落，平原必被毀壞。正如耶和華所說的。
And the spoiler shall come upon every city, and no city shall escape: the valley also shall perish, and the plain shall be destroyed, as the LORD hath spoken.

48:9    要將翅膀給摩押，使她可以飛去。她的城邑必致荒涼，無人居住。
Give wings unto Moab, that it may flee and get away: for the cities thereof shall be desolate, without any to dwell therein.

48:10    懶惰為耶和華行事的，必受咒詛。禁止刀劍不經血的，必受咒詛。
Cursed be he that doeth the work of the LORD deceitfully, and cursed be he that keepeth back his sword from blood.

48:11    摩押自幼年以來常享安逸，如酒在渣滓上澄清，沒有從這器皿倒在那器皿裡，也未曾被擄去。因此，它的原味尚存，香氣未變。
Moab hath been at ease from his youth, and he hath settled on his lees, and hath not been emptied from vessel to vessel, neither hath he gone into captivity: therefore his taste remained in him, and his scent is not changed.

48:12    耶和華說，日子將到，我必打發倒酒的往她那裡去，將她倒出來，倒空她的器皿，打碎她的罈子。
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will send unto him wanderers, that shall cause him to wander, and shall empty his vessels, and break their bottles.

48:13    摩押必因基抹羞愧，像以色列家從前倚靠伯特利的神羞愧一樣。
And Moab shall be ashamed of Chemosh, as the house of Israel was ashamed of Bethel their confidence.

48:14    你們怎嗎說，我們是勇士，是有勇力打仗的呢。
How say ye, We are mighty and strong men for the war?

48:15    摩押變為荒場，敵人上去進了她的城邑。她所特選的少年人下去遭了殺戮。這是君王名為萬軍之耶和華說的。
Moab is spoiled, and gone up out of her cities, and his chosen young men are gone down to the slaughter, saith the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.

48:16    摩押的災殃臨近。她的苦難速速來到。
The calamity of Moab is near to come, and his affliction hasteth fast.

48:17    凡在她四圍的和認識她名的，你們都要為她悲傷，說，那結實的杖和那美好的棍，何竟折斷了呢。
All ye that are about him, bemoan him; and all ye that know his name, say, How is the strong staff broken, and the beautiful rod!

48:18    住在底本的民哪（原文作女子），要從你榮耀的位上下來，坐受乾渴。因毀滅摩押的上來攻擊你，毀壞了你的保障。
Thou daughter that dost inhabit Dibon, come down from thy glory, and sit in thirst; for the spoiler of Moab shall come upon thee, and he shall destroy thy strong holds.

48:19    住亞羅珥的阿，要站在道旁觀望，問逃避的男人和逃脫的女人說，是什麼事呢。
O inhabitant of Aroer, stand by the way, and espy; ask him that fleeth, and her that escapeth, and say, What is done?

48:20    摩押因毀壞蒙羞。你們要哀號呼喊，要在亞嫩旁報告說，摩押變為荒場。
Moab is confounded; for it is broken down: howl and cry; tell ye it in Arnon, that Moab is spoiled,

48:21    刑罰臨到平原之地的何倫，雅雜，米法押，
And judgment is come upon the plain country; upon Holon, and upon Jahazah, and upon Mephaath,

48:22    底本，尼波，伯低比拉太音，
And upon Dibon, and upon Nebo, and upon Bethdiblathaim,

48:23    基列亭，伯迦末，伯米恩，
And upon Kiriathaim, and upon Bethgamul, and upon Bethmeon,

48:24    加略，波斯拉，和摩押地遠近所有的城邑。
And upon Kerioth, and upon Bozrah, and upon all the cities of the land of Moab, far or near.

48:25    摩押的角砍斷了，摩押的膀臂折斷了。這是耶和華說的。
The horn of Moab is cut off, and his arm is broken, saith the LORD.

48:26    你們要使摩押沉醉，因她向耶和華誇大。她要在自己所吐之中打滾，又要被人嗤笑。
Make ye him drunken: for he magnified himself against the LORD: Moab also shall wallow in his vomit, and he also shall be in derision.

48:27    摩押阿，你不曾嗤笑以色列嗎。她豈是在賊中查出來的呢。你每逢提到她便搖頭。
For was not Israel a derision unto thee? was he found among thieves? for since thou spakest of him, thou skippedst for joy.

48:28    摩押的居民哪，要離開城邑，住在山崖裡，像鴿子在深淵口上搭窩。
O ye that dwell in Moab, leave the cities, and dwell in the rock, and be like the dove that maketh her nest in the sides of the hole's mouth.



48:29    我們聽說摩押人驕傲，是極其驕傲。聽說他自高自傲，並且狂妄，居心自大。
We have heard the pride of Moab, (he is exceeding proud) his loftiness, and his arrogancy, and his pride, and the haughtiness of his heart.

48:30    耶和華說，我知道他的忿怒是虛空的。他誇大的話一無所成。
I know his wrath, saith the LORD; but it shall not be so; his lies shall not so effect it.

48:31    因此，我要為摩押哀號，為摩押全地呼喊。人必為吉珥哈列設人嘆息。
Therefore will I howl for Moab, and I will cry out for all Moab; mine heart shall mourn for the men of Kirheres.

48:32    西比瑪的葡萄樹阿，我為你哀哭，甚於雅謝人哀哭。你的枝子蔓延過海，直長到雅謝海。那行毀滅的已經臨到你夏天的果子和你所摘的葡萄。
O vine of Sibmah, I will weep for thee with the weeping of Jazer: thy plants are gone over the sea, they reach even to the sea of Jazer: the spoiler is fallen upon thy summer fruits and upon thy vintage.

48:33    肥田和摩押地的歡喜快樂都被奪去。我使酒榨的酒絕流，無人踹酒歡呼。那歡呼卻變為仇敵的吶喊（原文作那歡呼卻不是歡呼）。
And joy and gladness is taken from the plentiful field, and from the land of Moab; and I have caused wine to fail from the winepresses: none shall tread with shouting; their shouting shall be no shouting.

48:34    希實本人發的哀聲達到以利亞利，直達到雅雜。從瑣珥達到何羅念，直到伊基拉施利施亞，因為寧林的水必然乾涸。
From the cry of Heshbon even unto Elealeh, and even unto Jahaz, have they uttered their voice, from Zoar even unto Horonaim, as an heifer of three years old: for the waters also of Nimrim shall be desolate.

48:35    耶和華說，我必在摩押地使那在邱壇獻祭的，和那向他的神燒香的都斷絕了。
Moreover I will cause to cease in Moab, saith the LORD, him that offereth in the high places, and him that burneth incense to his gods.

48:36    我心腹為摩押哀嗚如簫，我心腸為吉珥哈列設人也是如此，因摩押人所得的財物都滅沒了。
Therefore mine heart shall sound for Moab like pipes, and mine heart shall sound like pipes for the men of Kirheres: because the riches that he hath gotten are perished.

48:37    各人頭上光禿，鬍鬚剪短，手有劃傷，腰束麻布。
For every head shall be bald, and every beard clipped: upon all the hands shall be cuttings, and upon the loins sackcloth.

48:38    在摩押的各房頂上和街市上處處有人哀哭。因我打碎摩押，好像打碎無人喜悅的器皿。這是耶和華說的。
There shall be lamentation generally upon all the housetops of Moab, and in the streets thereof: for I have broken Moab like a vessel wherein is no pleasure, saith the LORD.

48:39    摩押何等毀壞。何等哀號。何等羞愧轉背。這樣，摩押必令四圍的人嗤笑驚駭。
They shall howl, saying, How is it broken down! how hath Moab turned the back with shame! so shall Moab be a derision and a dismaying to all them about him.

48:40    耶和華如此說，仇敵必如大鷹飛起，展開翅膀，攻擊摩押。
For thus saith the LORD; Behold, he shall fly as an eagle, and shall spread his wings over Moab.

48:41    加略被攻取，保障也被佔據。到那日，摩押的勇士心中疼痛如臨產的婦人。
Kerioth is taken, and the strong holds are surprised, and the mighty men's hearts in Moab at that day shall be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.

48:42    摩押必被毀滅，不再成國，因她向耶和華誇大。
And Moab shall be destroyed from being a people, because he hath magnified himself against the LORD.

48:43    耶和華說，摩押的居民哪，恐懼，陷坑，網羅都臨近你。
Fear, and the pit, and the snare, shall be upon thee, O inhabitant of Moab, saith the LORD.

48:44    躲避恐懼的必墜入陷坑。從陷坑上來的必被網羅纏住。因我必使追討之年臨到摩押。這是耶和華說的。
He that fleeth from the fear shall fall into the pit; and he that getteth up out of the pit shall be taken in the snare: for I will bring upon it, even upon Moab, the year of their visitation, saith the LORD.

48:45    躲避的人無力站在希實本的影下。因為有火從希實本發出，有火焰出於西巨集的城，燒盡摩押的角和哄囔人的頭頂。
They that fled stood under the shadow of Heshbon because of the force: but a fire shall come forth out of Heshbon, and a flame from the midst of Sihon, and shall devour the corner of Moab, and the crown of the head of the tumultuous ones.

48:46    摩押阿，你有禍了。屬基抹的民滅亡了。因你的眾子都被擄去，你的眾女也被擄去。
Woe be unto thee, O Moab! the people of Chemosh perisheth: for thy sons are taken captives, and thy daughters captives.

48:47    耶和華說，到末後，我還要使被擄的摩押人歸回。摩押受審判的話到此為止。
Yet will I bring again the captivity of Moab in the latter days, saith the LORD. Thus far is the judgment of Moab.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 49 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


49:1    論亞捫人。耶和華如此說，以色列沒有兒子嗎。沒有後嗣嗎。瑪勒堪為何得迦得之地為業呢。屬他的民為何住其中的城邑呢。
Concerning the Ammonites, thus saith the LORD; Hath Israel no sons? hath he no heir? why then doth their king inherit Gad, and his people dwell in his cities?

49:2    耶和華說，日子將到，我必使人聽見打仗的喊聲，是攻擊亞捫人拉巴的喊聲。拉巴要成為亂堆。屬她的鄉村（原文作女子）要被火焚燒。先前得以色列地為業的，此時以色列倒要得他們的地為業。這是耶和華說的。
Therefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will cause an alarm of war to be heard in Rabbah of the Ammonites; and it shall be a desolate heap, and her daughters shall be burned with fire: then shall Israel be heir unto them that were his heirs, saith the LORD.

49:3    希實本哪，你要哀號，因為愛地變為荒場。拉巴的居民（原文作女子）哪，要呼喊，以麻布束腰。要哭號，在籬笆中跑來跑去。因瑪勒堪和屬他的祭司，首領要一同被擄去。
Howl, O Heshbon, for Ai is spoiled: cry, ye daughters of Rabbah, gird you with sackcloth; lament, and run to and fro by the hedges; for their king shall go into captivity, and his priests and his princes together.

49:4    背道的民（原文作女子）哪，你們為何因有山谷，就是水流的山谷誇張呢。為何倚靠財寶說，誰能來到我們這裡呢。
Wherefore gloriest thou in the valleys, thy flowing valley, O backsliding daughter? that trusted in her treasures, saying, Who shall come unto me?

49:5    主萬軍之耶和華說，我要使恐嚇從四圍的人中臨到你們。你們必被趕出，各人一直前往，沒有人收聚逃民。
Behold, I will bring a fear upon thee, saith the Lord GOD of hosts, from all those that be about thee; and ye shall be driven out every man right forth; and none shall gather up him that wandereth.

49:6    後來我還要使被擄的亞捫人歸回。這是耶和華說的。
And afterward I will bring again the captivity of the children of Ammon, saith the LORD.

49:7    論以東。萬軍之耶和華如此說，毯螅中再沒有智慧嗎。明哲人不再有謀略嗎。他們的智慧盡歸無有嗎。
Concerning Edom, thus saith the LORD of hosts; Is wisdom no more in Teman? is counsel perished from the prudent? is their wisdom vanished?

49:8    底但的居民哪，要轉身逃跑，住在深密處。因為我向以掃追討的時候，必使災殃臨到他。
Flee ye, turn back, dwell deep, O inhabitants of Dedan; for I will bring the calamity of Esau upon him, the time that I will visit him.

49:9    摘葡萄的若來到他那裡，豈不剩下些葡萄呢。盜賊若夜間而來，豈不毀壞直到夠了呢。
If grapegatherers come to thee, would they not leave some gleaning grapes? if thieves by night, they will destroy till they have enough.

49:10    我卻使以掃赤露，顯出他的隱密處。他不能自藏。他的後裔，弟兄，鄰舍盡都滅絕。他也歸於無有。
But I have made Esau bare, I have uncovered his secret places, and he shall not be able to hide himself: his seed is spoiled, and his brethren, and his neighbours, and he is not.

49:11    你撇下孤兒，我必保全他們的命。你的寡婦可以倚靠我。
Leave thy fatherless children, I will preserve them alive; and let thy widows trust in me.

49:12    耶和華如此說，原不該喝那杯的一定要喝。你能盡免刑罰嗎。你必不能免，一定要喝。
For thus saith the LORD; Behold, they whose judgment was not to drink of the cup have assuredly drunken; and art thou he that shall altogether go unpunished? thou shalt not go unpunished, but thou shalt surely drink of it.

49:13    耶和華說，我指著自己起誓，波斯拉必令人驚駭，羞辱，咒詛，並且荒涼。她的一切城邑必變為永遠的荒場。
For I have sworn by myself, saith the LORD, that Bozrah shall become a desolation, a reproach, a waste, and a curse; and all the cities thereof shall be perpetual wastes.

49:14    我從耶和華那裡聽見資訊，並有使者被差往列國去，說，你們聚集來攻擊以東，要起來爭戰。
I have heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent unto the heathen, saying, Gather ye together, and come against her, and rise up to the battle.

49:15    我使你在列國中為最小，在世人中被藐視。
For, lo, I will make thee small among the heathen, and despised among men.

49:16    住在山穴中據守山頂的阿，論到你的威嚇，你因心中的狂傲自欺。你雖如大鷹高高搭窩，我卻從那裡拉下你來。這是耶和華說的。
Thy terribleness hath deceived thee, and the pride of thine heart, O thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, that holdest the height of the hill: though thou shouldest make thy nest as high as the eagle, I will bring thee down from thence, saith the LORD.

49:17    以東必令人驚駭。凡經過的人就受驚駭，又因她一切的災禍嗤笑。
Also Edom shall be a desolation: every one that goeth by it shall be astonished, and shall hiss at all the plagues thereof.

49:18    耶和華說，必無人住在那裡，也無人在其中寄居，要像所多瑪，蛾摩拉，和鄰近的城邑傾覆的時候一樣。
As in the overthrow of Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbour cities thereof, saith the LORD, no man shall abide there, neither shall a son of man dwell in it.

49:19    仇敵必像獅子從約旦河邊的叢林上來，攻擊堅固的居所。轉眼之間，我要使以東人逃跑，離開這地。誰蒙揀選，我就派誰治理這地。誰能比我呢。誰能給我定規日期呢。有何牧人能在我們面前站立得住呢？
Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan against the habitation of the strong: but I will suddenly make him run away from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her? for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? and who is that shepherd that will stand before me?

49:20    你們要聽耶和華攻擊以東所說的謀略和他攻擊毯螅居民所定的旨意。仇敵定要將他們群眾微弱的拉去，定要使他們的居所荒涼。
Therefore hear the counsel of the LORD, that he hath taken against Edom; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against the inhabitants of Teman: Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out: surely he shall make their habitations desolate with them.

49:21    因他們仆倒的聲音，地就震動。人在紅海那裡必聽見呼喊的聲音。
The earth is moved at the noise of their fall, at the cry the noise thereof was heard in the Red sea.

49:22    仇敵必如大鷹飛起，展開翅膀攻擊波斯拉。到那日，以東的勇士心中疼痛如臨產的婦人。
Behold, he shall come up and fly as the eagle, and spread his wings over Bozrah: and at that day shall the heart of the mighty men of Edom be as the heart of a woman in her pangs.

49:23    論大馬士革。哈馬和亞珥拔蒙羞，因他們聽見凶惡的資訊就消化了。海上有憂愁，不得平靜。
Concerning Damascus. Hamath is confounded, and Arpad: for they have heard evil tidings: they are fainthearted; there is sorrow on the sea; it cannot be quiet.

49:24    大馬士革發軟，轉身逃跑。戰兢將她捉住。痛苦憂愁將她抓住，如產難的婦人一樣。
Damascus is waxed feeble, and turneth herself to flee, and fear hath seized on her: anguish and sorrows have taken her, as a woman in travail.

49:25    我所喜樂可稱讚的城，為何被撇棄了呢。
How is the city of praise not left, the city of my joy!

49:26    她的少年人必仆倒在街上。當那日，一切兵丁必默默無聲。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
Therefore her young men shall fall in her streets, and all the men of war shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD of hosts.

49:27    我必在大馬士革城中使火著起，燒滅便哈達的宮殿。
And I will kindle a fire in the wall of Damascus, and it shall consume the palaces of Benhadad.

49:28    論巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒所攻打的基達和夏瑣的諸國。耶和華如此說，迦勒底人哪，起來上基達去，毀滅東方人。
Concerning Kedar, and concerning the kingdoms of Hazor, which Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon shall smite, thus saith the LORD; Arise ye, go up to Kedar, and spoil the men of the east.

49:29    他們的帳棚和羊群都要奪去，將幔子和一切器皿，並駱駝為自己掠去。人向他們喊著說，四圍都有驚嚇。
Their tents and their flocks shall they take away: they shall take to themselves their curtains, and all their vessels, and their camels; and they shall cry unto them, Fear is on every side.

49:30    耶和華說，夏瑣的居民哪，要逃奔遠方，住在深密處。因為巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒設計謀害你們，起意攻擊你們。
Flee, get you far off, dwell deep, O ye inhabitants of Hazor, saith the LORD; for Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath taken counsel against you, and hath conceived a purpose against you.

49:31    耶和華說，迦勒底人哪，起來。上安逸無慮的居民那裡去。他們是無門無閂，獨自居住的。
Arise, get you up unto the wealthy nation, that dwelleth without care, saith the LORD, which have neither gates nor bars, which dwell alone.

49:32    他們的駱駝必成為掠物。他們眾多的牲畜必成為擄物。我必將剃周圍頭髮的人分散四方（方原文作風），使災殃從四圍臨到他們。這是耶和華說的。
And their camels shall be a booty, and the multitude of their cattle a spoil: and I will scatter into all winds them that are in the utmost corners; and I will bring their calamity from all sides thereof, saith the LORD.

49:33    夏瑣必成為野狗的住處，永遠淒涼。必無人住在那裡，也無人在其中寄居。
And Hazor shall be a dwelling for dragons, and a desolation for ever: there shall no man abide there, nor any son of man dwell in it.

49:34    猶大王西底家登基的時候，耶和華論以攔的話臨到先知耶利米說，
The word of the LORD that came to Jeremiah the prophet against Elam in the beginning of the reign of Zedekiah king of Judah, saying,

49:35    萬軍之耶和華如此說，我必折斷以攔人的弓，就是他們為首的權力。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will break the bow of Elam, the chief of their might.

49:36    我要使四風從天的四方刮來，臨到以攔人，將他們分散四方（方原文作風）。這被趕散的人沒有一國不到的。
And upon Elam will I bring the four winds from the four quarters of heaven, and will scatter them toward all those winds; and there shall be no nation whither the outcasts of Elam shall not come.

49:37    耶和華說，我必使以攔人在仇敵和尋索其命的人面前驚惶。我也必使災禍，就是我的烈怒臨到他們，又必使刀劍追殺他們，直到將他們滅盡。
For I will cause Elam to be dismayed before their enemies, and before them that seek their life: and I will bring evil upon them, even my fierce anger, saith the LORD; and I will send the sword after them, till I have consumed them:

49:38    我要在以攔設立我的寶座，從那裡除滅君王和首領。這是耶和華說的。
And I will set my throne in Elam, and will destroy from thence the king and the princes, saith the LORD.

49:39    到末後，我還要使被擄的以攔人歸回。這是耶和華說的。
But it shall come to pass in the latter days, that I will bring again the captivity of Elam, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 50 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


50:1    耶和華藉先知耶利米論巴比倫和迦勒底人之地所說的話。
The word that the LORD spake against Babylon and against the land of the Chaldeans by Jeremiah the prophet.

50:2    你們要在萬國中傳揚報告，豎立大旗。要報告，不可隱瞞，說，巴比倫被攻取，彼勒蒙羞，米羅達驚惶。巴比倫的神像都蒙羞。她的偶像都驚惶。
Declare ye among the nations, and publish, and set up a standard; publish, and conceal not: say, Babylon is taken, Bel is confounded, Merodach is broken in pieces; her idols are confounded, her images are broken in pieces.

50:3    因有一國從北方上來攻擊她，使她的地荒涼，無人居住，連人帶牲畜都逃走了。
For out of the north there cometh up a nation against her, which shall make her land desolate, and none shall dwell therein: they shall remove, they shall depart, both man and beast.

50:4    耶和華說，當那日子，那時候，以色列人要和猶大人同來，隨走隨哭，尋求耶和華他們的神。
In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the children of Israel shall come, they and the children of Judah together, going and weeping: they shall go, and seek the LORD their God.

50:5    他們必訪問錫安，又面向這裡，說，來吧，你們要與耶和華聯合為永遠不忘的約。
They shall ask the way to Zion with their faces thitherward, saying, Come, and let us join ourselves to the LORD in a perpetual covenant that shall not be forgotten.

50:6    我的百姓作了迷失的羊，牧人使他們走差路，使他們轉到山上。他們從大山走到小山，竟忘了安歇之處。
My people hath been lost sheep: their shepherds have caused them to go astray, they have turned them away on the mountains: they have gone from mountain to hill, they have forgotten their restingplace.

50:7    凡遇見他們的，就把他們吞滅。敵人說，我們沒有罪。因他們得罪那作公義居所的耶和華，就是他們列祖所仰望的耶和華。
All that found them have devoured them: and their adversaries said, We offend not, because they have sinned against the LORD, the habitation of justice, even the LORD, the hope of their fathers.

50:8    我民哪，你們要從巴比倫中逃走，從迦勒底人之地出去，要像羊群前面走的公山羊。
Remove out of the midst of Babylon, and go forth out of the land of the Chaldeans, and be as the he goats before the flocks.

50:9    因我必激動聯合的大國從北方上來攻擊巴比倫，他們要擺陣攻擊她。她必從那裡被攻取。他們的箭好像善射之勇士的箭，一枝也不徒然返回。
For, lo, I will raise and cause to come up against Babylon an assembly of great nations from the north country: and they shall set themselves in array against her; from thence she shall be taken: their arrows shall be as of a mighty expert man; none shall return in vain.

50:10    迦勒底必成為掠物。凡擄掠她的都必心滿意足。這是耶和華說的。
And Chaldea shall be a spoil: all that spoil her shall be satisfied, saith the LORD.

50:11    搶奪我產業的阿，你們因歡喜快樂，且像踹谷撒歡的母牛犢，又像發嘶聲的壯馬。
Because ye were glad, because ye rejoiced, O ye destroyers of mine heritage, because ye are grown fat as the heifer at grass, and bellow as bulls;

50:12    你們的母巴比倫就極其抱愧，生你們的必然蒙羞。她要列在諸國之末，成為曠野，旱地，沙漠。
Your mother shall be sore confounded; she that bare you shall be ashamed: behold, the hindermost of the nations shall be a wilderness, a dry land, and a desert.

50:13    因耶和華的忿怒，必無人居住，要全然荒涼。凡經過巴比倫的要受驚駭，又因她所遭的災殃嗤笑。
Because of the wrath of the LORD it shall not be inhabited, but it shall be wholly desolate: every one that goeth by Babylon shall be astonished, and hiss at all her plagues.

50:14    所有拉弓的，你們要在巴比倫的四圍擺陣，射箭攻擊她。不要愛惜箭枝，因她得罪了耶和華。
Put yourselves in array against Babylon round about: all ye that bend the bow, shoot at her, spare no arrows: for she hath sinned against the LORD.

50:15    你們要在她四圍吶喊。她已經投降。外郭坍塌了，城牆拆毀了，因為這是耶和華報仇的事。你們要向巴比倫報仇。她怎樣待人，也要怎樣待她。
Shout against her round about: she hath given her hand: her foundations are fallen, her walls are thrown down: for it is the vengeance of the LORD: take vengeance upon her; as she hath done, do unto her.

50:16    你們要將巴比倫撒種的和收割時拿鐮刀的都剪除了。他們各人因怕欺壓的刀劍，必歸回本族，逃到本土。
Cut off the sower from Babylon, and him that handleth the sickle in the time of harvest: for fear of the oppressing sword they shall turn every one to his people, and they shall flee every one to his own land.

50:17    以色列是打散的羊，是被獅子趕出的。首先是亞述王將他吞滅，末後是巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒將他的骨頭折斷。
Israel is a scattered sheep; the lions have driven him away: first the king of Assyria hath devoured him; and last this Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon hath broken his bones.

50:18    所以萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，我必罰巴比倫王和他的地，像我從前罰亞述王一樣。
Therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; Behold, I will punish the king of Babylon and his land, as I have punished the king of Assyria.

50:19    我必再領以色列回他的草場，他必在迦密和巴珊吃草，又在以法蓮山上和基列境內得以飽足。
And I will bring Israel again to his habitation, and he shall feed on Carmel and Bashan, and his soul shall be satisfied upon mount Ephraim and Gilead.

50:20    耶和華說，當那日子，那時候，雖尋以色列的罪孽，一無所有。雖尋猶大的罪惡，也無所見。因為我所留下的人，我必赦免。
In those days, and in that time, saith the LORD, the iniquity of Israel shall be sought for, and there shall be none; and the sins of Judah, and they shall not be found: for I will pardon them whom I reserve.

50:21    耶和華說，上去攻擊米拉大翁之地，又攻擊比割的居民。要追殺滅盡，照我一切所吩咐你的去行。
Go up against the land of Merathaim, even against it, and against the inhabitants of Pekod: waste and utterly destroy after them, saith the LORD, and do according to all that I have commanded thee.

50:22    境內有打仗和大毀滅的響聲。
A sound of battle is in the land, and of great destruction.

50:23    全地的大錘何竟砍斷破壞。巴比倫在列國中何竟荒涼。
How is the hammer of the whole earth cut asunder and broken! how is Babylon become a desolation among the nations!

50:24    巴比倫哪，我為你設下網羅，你不知不覺被纏住。你被尋著，也被捉住。因為你與耶和華爭競。
I have laid a snare for thee, and thou art also taken, O Babylon, and thou wast not aware: thou art found, and also caught, because thou hast striven against the LORD.

50:25    耶和華已經開了武庫，拿出他惱恨的兵器。因為主萬軍之耶和華在迦勒底人之地有當作的事。
The LORD hath opened his armoury, and hath brought forth the weapons of his indignation: for this is the work of the Lord GOD of hosts in the land of the Chaldeans.

50:26    你們要從極遠的邊界來攻擊她，開她的倉廩，將她堆如高堆，毀滅淨盡，絲毫不留。
Come against her from the utmost border, open her storehouses: cast her up as heaps, and destroy her utterly: let nothing of her be left.

50:27    要殺她的一切牛犢，使他們下去遭遇殺戮。他們有禍了，因為追討他們的日子已經來到。
Slay all her bullocks; let them go down to the slaughter: woe unto them! for their day is come, the time of their visitation.

50:28    有從巴比倫之地逃避出來的人，在錫安揚聲報告耶和華我們的神報仇，就是為他的殿報仇。
The voice of them that flee and escape out of the land of Babylon, to declare in Zion the vengeance of the LORD our God, the vengeance of his temple.

50:29    招集一切弓箭手來攻擊巴比倫。要在巴比倫四圍安營，不要容一人逃脫，照著她所作的報應她。她怎樣待人，也要怎樣待她，因為她向耶和華以色列的聖者發了狂傲。
Call together the archers against Babylon: all ye that bend the bow, camp against it round about; let none thereof escape: recompense her according to her work; according to all that she hath done, do unto her: for she hath been proud against the LORD, against the Holy One of Israel.

50:30    所以她的少年人必仆倒在街上。當那日，一切兵丁必默默無聲。這是耶和華說的。
Therefore shall her young men fall in the streets, and all her men of war shall be cut off in that day, saith the LORD.

50:31    主萬軍之耶和華說，你這狂傲的阿，我與你反對，因為我追討你的日子已經來到。
Behold, I am against thee, O thou most proud, saith the Lord GOD of hosts: for thy day is come, the time that I will visit thee.

50:32    狂傲的必絆跌仆倒，無人扶起。我也必使火在他的城邑中裡起來，將他四圍所有的盡行燒滅。
And the most proud shall stumble and fall, and none shall raise him up: and I will kindle a fire in his cities, and it shall devour all round about him.

50:33    萬軍之耶和華如此說，以色列人和猶大人一同受欺壓。凡擄掠他們的都緊緊抓住他們，不肯釋放。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; The children of Israel and the children of Judah were oppressed together: and all that took them captives held them fast; they refused to let them go.

50:34    他們的救贖主大有能力，萬軍之耶和華是他的名。他必伸清他們的冤，好使全地得平安，並攪擾巴比倫的居民。
Their Redeemer is strong; the LORD of hosts is his name: he shall throughly plead their cause, that he may give rest to the land, and disquiet the inhabitants of Babylon.

50:35    耶和華說，有刀劍臨到迦勒底人和巴比倫的居民，並她的首領與智慧人。
A sword is upon the Chaldeans, saith the LORD, and upon the inhabitants of Babylon, and upon her princes, and upon her wise men.

50:36    有刀劍臨到矜誇的人，他們就成為愚昧。有刀劍臨到她的勇士，他們就驚惶。
A sword is upon the liars; and they shall dote: a sword is upon her mighty men; and they shall be dismayed.

50:37    有刀劍臨到她的馬匹，車輛，和其中雜族的人民。他們必像婦女一樣。有刀劍臨到她的寶物，就被搶奪。
A sword is upon their horses, and upon their chariots, and upon all the mingled people that are in the midst of her; and they shall become as women: a sword is upon her treasures; and they shall be robbed.

50:38    有乾旱臨到她的眾水，就必乾涸。因為這是有雕刻偶像之地，人因偶像而顛狂。
A drought is upon her waters; and they shall be dried up: for it is the land of graven images, and they are mad upon their idols.

50:39    所以曠野的走獸和豺狼必住在那裡，鴕鳥也住在其中，永無人煙，世世代代無人居住。
Therefore the wild beasts of the desert with the wild beasts of the islands shall dwell there, and the owls shall dwell therein: and it shall be no more inhabited for ever; neither shall it be dwelt in from generation to generation.

50:40    耶和華說，必無人住在那裡，也無人在其中寄居，要像我傾覆所多瑪，蛾摩拉，和鄰近的城邑一樣。
As God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah and the neighbour cities thereof, saith the LORD; so shall no man abide there, neither shall any son of man dwell therein.

50:41    看哪，有一種民從北方而來，並有一大國和許多君王被激動，從地極來到。
Behold, a people shall come from the north, and a great nation, and many kings shall be raised up from the coasts of the earth.

50:42    他們拿弓和槍，性情殘忍，不施憐憫。他們的聲音像海浪？？訇。巴比倫城（城原文作女子）阿，他們騎馬，都擺隊伍如上戰場的人，要攻擊你。
They shall hold the bow and the lance: they are cruel, and will not shew mercy: their voice shall roar like the sea, and they shall ride upon horses, every one put in array, like a man to the battle, against thee, O daughter of Babylon.

50:43    巴比倫王聽見他們的風聲，手就發軟，痛苦將他抓住，疼痛彷佛產難的婦人。
The king of Babylon hath heard the report of them, and his hands waxed feeble: anguish took hold of him, and pangs as of a woman in travail.

50:44    仇敵必像獅子從約旦河邊的叢林上來，攻擊堅固的居所。轉眼之間，我要使他們逃跑，離開這地。誰蒙揀選，我就派誰治理這地。誰能比我呢。誰能給我定規日期呢。有何牧人能在我們面前站立得住呢？
Behold, he shall come up like a lion from the swelling of Jordan unto the habitation of the strong: but I will make them suddenly run away from her: and who is a chosen man, that I may appoint over her? for who is like me? and who will appoint me the time? and who is that shepherd that will stand before me?

50:45    你們要聽耶和華攻擊巴比倫所說的謀略和他攻擊迦勒底人之地所定的旨意。仇敵定要將他們群眾微弱的拉去，定要使他們的居所荒涼。
Therefore hear ye the counsel of the LORD, that he hath taken against Babylon; and his purposes, that he hath purposed against the land of the Chaldeans: Surely the least of the flock shall draw them out: surely he shall make their habitation desolate with them.

50:46    因巴比倫被取的聲音，地就震動，人在列邦都聽見呼喊的聲音。
At the noise of the taking of Babylon the earth is moved, and the cry is heard among the nations.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 51 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


51:1    耶和華如此說，我必使毀滅的風颳起，攻擊巴比倫和住在立加米的人。
Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will raise up against Babylon, and against them that dwell in the midst of them that rise up against me, a destroying wind;

51:2    我要打發外邦人來到巴比倫，簸揚她，使她的地空虛。在她遭禍的日子，他們要周圍攻擊她。
And will send unto Babylon fanners, that shall fan her, and shall empty her land: for in the day of trouble they shall be against her round about.

51:3    拉弓的，要向拉弓的和貫甲挺身的射箭。不要憐惜她的少年人。要滅盡她的全軍。
Against him that bendeth let the archer bend his bow, and against him that lifteth himself up in his brigandine: and spare ye not her young men; destroy ye utterly all her host.

51:4    他們必在迦勒底人之地被殺仆倒，在巴比倫的街上被刺透。
Thus the slain shall fall in the land of the Chaldeans, and they that are thrust through in her streets.

51:5    以色列和猶大雖然境內充滿違背以色列聖者的罪，卻沒有被他的神萬軍之耶和華丟棄。
For Israel hath not been forsaken, nor Judah of his God, of the LORD of hosts; though their land was filled with sin against the Holy One of Israel.

51:6    你們要從巴比倫中逃奔，各救自己的性命。不要陷在她的罪孽中一同滅亡。因為這是耶和華報仇的時候，他必向巴比倫施行報應。
Flee out of the midst of Babylon, and deliver every man his soul: be not cut off in her iniquity; for this is the time of the LORD's vengeance; he will render unto her a recompence.

51:7    巴比倫素來是耶和華手中的金盃，使天下沉醉。萬國喝了她的酒就顛狂了。
Babylon hath been a golden cup in the LORD's hand, that made all the earth drunken: the nations have drunken of her wine; therefore the nations are mad.

51:8    巴比倫忽然傾覆毀壞。要為她哀號。為止她的疼痛，拿乳香或者可以治好。
Babylon is suddenly fallen and destroyed: howl for her; take balm for her pain, if so be she may be healed.

51:9    我們想醫治巴比倫，她卻沒有治好。離開她吧。我們各人歸回本國。因為她受的審判通於上天，達到穹蒼。
We would have healed Babylon, but she is not healed: forsake her, and let us go every one into his own country: for her judgment reacheth unto heaven, and is lifted up even to the skies.

51:10    耶和華已經彰顯我們的公義。來吧。我們可以在錫安報告耶和華我們神的作為。
The LORD hath brought forth our righteousness: come, and let us declare in Zion the work of the LORD our God.

51:11    你們要磨尖了箭頭，抓住盾牌。耶和華定意攻擊巴比倫，將她毀滅，所以激動了米底亞君王的心。因這是耶和華報仇，就是為自己的殿報仇。
Make bright the arrows; gather the shields: the LORD hath raised up the spirit of the kings of the Medes: for his device is against Babylon, to destroy it; because it is the vengeance of the LORD, the vengeance of his temple.

51:12    你們要豎立大旗，攻擊巴比倫的城牆。要堅固瞭望臺，派定守望的設下埋伏。因為耶和華指著巴比倫居民所說的話，所定的意，他已經作成。
Set up the standard upon the walls of Babylon, make the watch strong, set up the watchmen, prepare the ambushes: for the LORD hath both devised and done that which he spake against the inhabitants of Babylon.

51:13    住在眾水之上多有財寶的阿，你的結局到了。你貪婪之量滿了。
O thou that dwellest upon many waters, abundant in treasures, thine end is come, and the measure of thy covetousness.

51:14    萬軍之耶和華指著自己起誓說，我必使敵人充滿你，像螞蚱一樣。他們必吶喊攻擊你。
The LORD of hosts hath sworn by himself, saying, Surely I will fill thee with men, as with caterpillers; and they shall lift up a shout against thee.

51:15    耶和華用能力創造大地，用智慧建立世界，用聰明鋪張穹蒼。
He hath made the earth by his power, he hath established the world by his wisdom, and hath stretched out the heaven by his understanding.

51:16    他一發聲，空中便有多水激動。他使雲霧從地極上騰。他造電隨雨而閃，從他府庫中帶出風來。
When he uttereth his voice, there is a multitude of waters in the heavens; and he causeth the vapours to ascend from the ends of the earth: he maketh lightnings with rain, and bringeth forth the wind out of his treasures.

51:17    各人都成了畜類，毫無知識。各銀匠都因他的偶像羞愧。他所鑄的偶像本是虛假的，其中並無氣息，
Every man is brutish by his knowledge; every founder is confounded by the graven image: for his molten image is falsehood, and there is no breath in them.

51:18    都是虛無的，是迷惑人的工作，到追討的時候，必被除滅。
They are vanity, the work of errors: in the time of their visitation they shall perish.

51:19    雅各的分不像這些，因他是造作萬有的主。以色列也是他產業的支派。萬軍之耶和華是他的名。
The portion of Jacob is not like them; for he is the former of all things: and Israel is the rod of his inheritance: the LORD of hosts is his name.

51:20    你是我爭戰的斧子和打仗的兵器。我要用你打碎列國，用你毀滅列邦。
Thou art my battle axe and weapons of war: for with thee will I break in pieces the nations, and with thee will I destroy kingdoms;

51:21    用你打碎馬和騎馬的。用你打碎戰車和坐在其上的。
And with thee will I break in pieces the horse and his rider; and with thee will I break in pieces the chariot and his rider;

51:22    用你打碎男人和女人。用你打碎老年人和少年人。用你打碎壯丁和處女。
With thee also will I break in pieces man and woman; and with thee will I break in pieces old and young; and with thee will I break in pieces the young man and the maid;

51:23    用你打碎牧人和他的群畜。用你打碎農夫和他一對牛。用你打碎省長和副省長。
I will also break in pieces with thee the shepherd and his flock; and with thee will I break in pieces the husbandman and his yoke of oxen; and with thee will I break in pieces captains and rulers.

51:24    耶和華說，我必在你們眼前報復巴比倫人和迦勒底居民在錫安所行的諸惡。
And I will render unto Babylon and to all the inhabitants of Chaldea all their evil that they have done in Zion in your sight, saith the LORD.

51:25    耶和華說，你這行毀滅的山哪，就是毀滅天下的山，我與你反對。我必向你伸手，將你從山岩滾下去，使你成為燒燬的山。
Behold, I am against thee, O destroying mountain, saith the LORD, which destroyest all the earth: and I will stretch out mine hand upon thee, and roll thee down from the rocks, and will make thee a burnt mountain.

51:26    人必不從你那裡取石頭為房角石，也不取石頭為根基石。你必永遠荒涼。這是耶和華說的。
And they shall not take of thee a stone for a corner, nor a stone for foundations; but thou shalt be desolate for ever, saith the LORD.

51:27    要在境內豎立大旗，在各國中吹角，使列國預備攻擊巴比倫，將亞拉臘，米尼，亞實基拿各國招來攻擊她。又派軍長來攻擊她，使馬匹上來如螞蚱，
Set ye up a standard in the land, blow the trumpet among the nations, prepare the nations against her, call together against her the kingdoms of Ararat, Minni, and Ashchenaz; appoint a captain against her; cause the horses to come up as the rough caterpillers.

51:28    使列國和米底亞君王，與省長和副省長，並他們所管全地之人，都預備攻擊她。
Prepare against her the nations with the kings of the Medes, the captains thereof, and all the rulers thereof, and all the land of his dominion.

51:29    地必震動而瘠苦。因耶和華向巴比倫所定的旨意成立了，使巴比倫之地荒涼，無人居住。
And the land shall tremble and sorrow: for every purpose of the LORD shall be performed against Babylon, to make the land of Babylon a desolation without an inhabitant.

51:30    巴比倫的勇士止息爭戰，藏在堅壘之中。他們的勇力衰盡，好像婦女一樣。巴比倫的住處有火著起，門閂都折斷了。
The mighty men of Babylon have forborn to fight, they have remained in their holds: their might hath failed; they became as women: they have burned her dwellingplaces; her bars are broken.

51:31    通報的要彼此相遇，送信的要互相迎接，報告巴比倫王說，城的四方被攻取了，
One post shall run to meet another, and one messenger to meet another, to shew the king of Babylon that his city is taken at one end,

51:32    渡口被佔據了，葦塘被火燒了，兵丁也驚慌了。
And that the passages are stopped, and the reeds they have burned with fire, and the men of war are affrighted.

51:33    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神如此說，巴比倫城（城原文作女子）好像踹谷的禾場。再過片時，收割她的時候就到了。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel; The daughter of Babylon is like a threshingfloor, it is time to thresh her: yet a little while, and the time of her harvest shall come.

51:34    以色列人說，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒吞滅我，壓碎我，使我成為空虛的器皿。他像大魚將我吞下，用我的美物充滿他的肚腹，又將我趕出去。
Nebuchadrezzar the king of Babylon hath devoured me, he hath crushed me, he hath made me an empty vessel, he hath swallowed me up like a dragon, he hath filled his belly with my delicates, he hath cast me out.

51:35    錫安的居民要說，巴比倫以強暴待我，損害我的身體，願這罪歸給她。耶路撒冷人要說，願流我們血的罪歸到迦勒底的居民。
The violence done to me and to my flesh be upon Babylon, shall the inhabitant of Zion say; and my blood upon the inhabitants of Chaldea, shall Jerusalem say.

51:36    所以，耶和華如此說，我必為你伸冤，為你報仇。我必使巴比倫的海枯竭，使她的泉源乾涸。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, I will plead thy cause, and take vengeance for thee; and I will dry up her sea, and make her springs dry.

51:37    巴比倫必成為亂堆，為野狗的住處，令人驚駭，嗤笑，並且無人居住。
And Babylon shall become heaps, a dwellingplace for dragons, an astonishment, and an hissing, without an inhabitant.

51:38    他們要像少壯獅子咆哮，像小獅子吼叫。
They shall roar together like lions: they shall yell as lions' whelps.

51:39    他們火熱的時候，我必為他們設擺酒席，使他們沉醉，好叫他們快樂，睡了長覺，永不醒起。這是耶和華說的。
In their heat I will make their feasts, and I will make them drunken, that they may rejoice, and sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake, saith the LORD.

51:40    我必使他們像羊羔，像公綿羊和公山羊下到宰殺之地。
I will bring them down like lambs to the slaughter, like rams with he goats.

51:41    示沙克（就是巴比倫）何竟被攻取，天下所稱讚的何竟被佔據。巴比倫在列國中何竟變為荒場。
How is Sheshach taken! and how is the praise of the whole earth surprised! how is Babylon become an astonishment among the nations!

51:42    海水漲起，漫過巴比倫。她被許多海浪遮蓋。
The sea is come up upon Babylon: she is covered with the multitude of the waves thereof.

51:43    她的城邑變為荒場，旱地，沙漠，無人居住，無人經過之地。
Her cities are a desolation, a dry land, and a wilderness, a land wherein no man dwelleth, neither doth any son of man pass thereby.

51:44    我必刑罰巴比倫的彼勒，使他吐出所吞的。萬民必不再流歸他那裡。巴比倫的城牆也必坍塌了。
And I will punish Bel in Babylon, and I will bring forth out of his mouth that which he hath swallowed up: and the nations shall not flow together any more unto him: yea, the wall of Babylon shall fall.

51:45    我的民哪，你們要從其中出去。各人拯救自己，躲避耶和華的烈怒。
My people, go ye out of the midst of her, and deliver ye every man his soul from the fierce anger of the LORD.

51:46    你們不要心驚膽怯，也不要因境內所聽見的風聲懼怕。因為這年有風聲傳來。那年也有風聲傳來，境內有強暴的事，官長攻擊官長。
And lest your heart faint, and ye fear for the rumour that shall be heard in the land; a rumour shall both come one year, and after that in another year shall come a rumour, and violence in the land, ruler against ruler.

51:47    日子將到，我必刑罰巴比倫雕刻的偶像。她全地必然抱愧。她被殺的人必在其中仆倒。
Therefore, behold, the days come, that I will do judgment upon the graven images of Babylon: and her whole land shall be confounded, and all her slain shall fall in the midst of her.

51:48    那時，天地和其中所有的，必因巴比倫歡呼，因為行毀滅的要從北方來到她那裡。這是耶和華說的。
Then the heaven and the earth, and all that is therein, shall sing for Babylon: for the spoilers shall come unto her from the north, saith the LORD.

51:49    巴比倫怎樣使以色列被殺的人仆倒，照樣她全地被殺的人也必在巴比倫仆倒。
As Babylon hath caused the slain of Israel to fall, so at Babylon shall fall the slain of all the earth.

51:50    你們躲避刀劍的要快走，不要站住。要在遠方記念耶和華，心中追想耶路撒冷。
Ye that have escaped the sword, go away, stand not still: remember the LORD afar off, and let Jerusalem come into your mind.

51:51    我們聽見辱罵就蒙羞，滿面慚愧，因為外邦人進入耶和華殿的聖所。
We are confounded, because we have heard reproach: shame hath covered our faces: for strangers are come into the sanctuaries of the LORD's house.

51:52    耶和華說，日子將到，我必刑罰巴比倫雕刻的偶像，通國受傷的人必唉哼。
Wherefore, behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that I will do judgment upon her graven images: and through all her land the wounded shall groan.

51:53    巴比倫雖升到天上，雖使她堅固的高處更堅固，還有行毀滅的從我這裡到她那裡。這是耶和華說的。
Though Babylon should mount up to heaven, and though she should fortify the height of her strength, yet from me shall spoilers come unto her, saith the LORD.

51:54    有哀號的聲音從巴比倫出來。有大毀滅的響聲從迦勒底人之地發出。
A sound of a cry cometh from Babylon, and great destruction from the land of the Chaldeans:

51:55    因耶和華使巴比倫變為荒場，使其中的大聲滅絕。仇敵彷佛眾水，波浪？？訇，響聲已經發出。
Because the LORD hath spoiled Babylon, and destroyed out of her the great voice; when her waves do roar like great waters, a noise of their voice is uttered:

51:56    這是行毀滅的臨到巴比倫。巴比倫的勇士被捉住，他們的弓折斷了。因為耶和華是施行報應的神，必定施行報應。
Because the spoiler is come upon her, even upon Babylon, and her mighty men are taken, every one of their bows is broken: for the LORD God of recompences shall surely requite.

51:57    君王名為萬軍之耶和華的說，我必使巴比倫的首領，智慧人，省長，副省長，和勇士都沉醉，使他們睡了長覺，永不醒起。
And I will make drunk her princes, and her wise men, her captains, and her rulers, and her mighty men: and they shall sleep a perpetual sleep, and not wake, saith the King, whose name is the LORD of hosts.

51:58    萬軍之耶和華如此說，巴比倫寬闊的城牆必全然傾倒。她高大的城門必被火焚燒。眾民所勞碌的必致虛空。列國所勞碌的被火焚燒，他們都必睏乏。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; The broad walls of Babylon shall be utterly broken, and her high gates shall be burned with fire; and the people shall labour in vain, and the folk in the fire, and they shall be weary.

51:59    猶大王西底家在位第四年，上巴比倫去的時候，瑪西雅的孫子，尼利亞的兒子西萊雅與王同去（西萊雅是王宮的大臣），先知耶利米有話吩咐他。
The word which Jeremiah the prophet commanded Seraiah the son of Neriah, the son of Maaseiah, when he went with Zedekiah the king of Judah into Babylon in the fourth year of his reign. And this Seraiah was a quiet prince.

51:60    耶利米將一切要臨到巴比倫的災禍，就是論到巴比倫的一切話，寫在書上。
So Jeremiah wrote in a book all the evil that should come upon Babylon, even all these words that are written against Babylon.

51:61    耶利米對西萊雅說，你到了巴比倫務要念這書上的話。
And Jeremiah said to Seraiah, When thou comest to Babylon, and shalt see, and shalt read all these words;

51:62    又說，耶和華阿，你曾論到這地方說，要剪除，甚至連人帶牲畜沒有在這裡居住的，必永遠荒涼。
Then shalt thou say, O LORD, thou hast spoken against this place, to cut it off, that none shall remain in it, neither man nor beast, but that it shall be desolate for ever.

51:63    你念完了這書，就把一塊石頭拴在書上，扔在幼發拉底河中。
And it shall be, when thou hast made an end of reading this book, that thou shalt bind a stone to it, and cast it into the midst of Euphrates:

51:64    說，巴比倫因耶和華所要降與她的災禍，必如此沉下去，不再興起，人民也必睏乏。耶利米的話到此為止。
And thou shalt say, Thus shall Babylon sink, and shall not rise from the evil that I will bring upon her: and they shall be weary. Thus far are the words of Jeremiah.




舊約 -- 耶利米書(Jeremiah) -- 第 52 章 ( 本篇共有 52 章 )    　


52:1    西底家登基的時候年二十一歲，在耶路撒冷作王十一年。他母親名叫哈慕她，是立拿人耶利米的女兒。
Zedekiah was one and twenty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned eleven years in Jerusalem. And his mother's name was Hamutal the daughter of Jeremiah of Libnah.

52:2    西底家行耶和華眼中看為惡的事，是照約雅敬一切所行的。
And he did that which was evil in the eyes of the LORD, according to all that Jehoiakim had done.

52:3    因此耶和華的怒氣在耶路撒冷和猶大發作，以致將人民從自己的面前趕出。
For through the anger of the LORD it came to pass in Jerusalem and Judah, till he had cast them out from his presence, that Zedekiah rebelled against the king of Babylon.

52:4    西底家背叛巴比倫王。他作王第九年十月初十日，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒率領全軍來攻擊耶路撒冷，對城安營，四圍築壘攻城。
And it came to pass in the ninth year of his reign, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, that Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon came, he and all his army, against Jerusalem, and pitched against it, and built forts against it round about.

52:5    於是城被圍困直到西底家王十一年。
So the city was besieged unto the eleventh year of king Zedekiah.

52:6    四月初九日，城裡有大饑荒，甚至百姓都沒有糧食。
And in the fourth month, in the ninth day of the month, the famine was sore in the city, so that there was no bread for the people of the land.

52:7    城被攻破，一切兵丁就在夜間從靠近王園兩城中間的門，出城逃跑。迦勒底人正在四圍攻城。他們就往亞拉巴逃去。
Then the city was broken up, and all the men of war fled, and went forth out of the city by night by the way of the gate between the two walls, which was by the king's garden; (now the Chaldeans were by the city round about:) and they went by the way of the plain.

52:8    迦勒底的軍隊追趕西底家王，在耶利哥的平原追上他。他的全軍都離開他四散了。
But the army of the Chaldeans pursued after the king, and overtook Zedekiah in the plains of Jericho; and all his army was scattered from him.

52:9    迦勒底人就拿住王，帶他到在哈馬地利比拉的巴比倫王那裡。巴比倫王便審判他。
Then they took the king, and carried him up unto the king of Babylon to Riblah in the land of Hamath; where he gave judgment upon him.

52:10    巴比倫王在西底家眼前殺了他的眾子，又在利比拉殺了猶大的一切首領，
And the king of Babylon slew the sons of Zedekiah before his eyes: he slew also all the princes of Judah in Riblah.

52:11    並且剜了西底家的眼睛，用銅鏈鎖著他，帶到巴比倫去，將他囚在監裡，直到他死的日子。
Then he put out the eyes of Zedekiah; and the king of Babylon bound him in chains, and carried him to Babylon, and put him in prison till the day of his death.

52:12    巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒十九年五月初十日，在巴比倫王面前侍立的護衛長尼布撒拉旦進入耶路撒冷，
Now in the fifth month, in the tenth day of the month, which was the nineteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, came Nebuzaradan, captain of the guard, which served the king of Babylon, into Jerusalem,

52:13    用火焚燒耶和華的殿和王宮，又焚燒耶路撒冷的房屋，就是各大戶家的房屋。
And burned the house of the LORD, and the king's house; and all the houses of Jerusalem, and all the houses of the great men, burned he with fire:

52:14    跟從護衛長迦勒底的全軍就拆毀耶路撒冷四圍的城牆。
And all the army of the Chaldeans, that were with the captain of the guard, brake down all the walls of Jerusalem round about.

52:15    那時護衛長尼布撒拉旦將民中最窮的和城裡所剩下的百姓，並已經投降巴比倫王的人，以及大眾所剩下的人，都擄去了。
Then Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive certain of the poor of the people, and the residue of the people that remained in the city, and those that fell away, that fell to the king of Babylon, and the rest of the multitude.

52:16    但護衛長尼布撒拉旦留下些民中最窮的，使他們修理葡萄園，耕種田地。
But Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard left certain of the poor of the land for vinedressers and for husbandmen.

52:17    耶和華殿的銅柱並殿內的盆座和銅海，迦勒底人都打碎了，將那銅運到巴比倫去了，
Also the pillars of brass that were in the house of the LORD, and the bases, and the brasen sea that was in the house of the LORD, the Chaldeans brake, and carried all the brass of them to Babylon.

52:18    又帶去鍋，鏟子，臘剪，盤子，調羹，並所用的一切銅器，
The caldrons also, and the shovels, and the snuffers, and the bowls, and the spoons, and all the vessels of brass wherewith they ministered, took they away.

52:19    杯，火鼎，碗，盆，燈臺，調羹，爵，無論金的銀的，護衛長也都帶去了。
And the basons, and the firepans, and the bowls, and the caldrons, and the candlesticks, and the spoons, and the cups; that which was of gold in gold, and that which was of silver in silver, took the captain of the guard away.

52:20    所羅門為耶和華殿所造的兩根銅柱，一個銅海，並座下的十二隻銅牛，這一切的銅多得無法可稱。
The two pillars, one sea, and twelve brasen bulls that were under the bases, which king Solomon had made in the house of the LORD: the brass of all these vessels was without weight.

52:21    這一根柱子高十八肘，厚四指，是空的，圍十二肘。
And concerning the pillars, the height of one pillar was eighteen cubits; and a fillet of twelve cubits did compass it; and the thickness thereof was four fingers: it was hollow.

52:22    柱上有銅頂，高五肘。銅頂的周圍有網子和石榴，都是銅的。那一根柱子照此一樣，也有石榴。
And a chapiter of brass was upon it; and the height of one chapiter was five cubits, with network and pomegranates upon the chapiters round about, all of brass. The second pillar also and the pomegranates were like unto these.

52:23    柱子四面有九十六個石榴，在網子周圍，共有一百石榴。
And there were ninety and six pomegranates on a side; and all the pomegranates upon the network were an hundred round about.

52:24    護衛長拿住大祭司西萊雅，副祭司西番亞，和三個把門的，
And the captain of the guard took Seraiah the chief priest, and Zephaniah the second priest, and the three keepers of the door:

52:25    又從城中拿住一個管理兵丁的官（或作太監），並在城裡所遇常見王面的七個人和檢點國民軍長的書記，以及城裡所遇見的國民六十個人。
He took also out of the city an eunuch, which had the charge of the men of war; and seven men of them that were near the king's person, which were found in the city; and the principal scribe of the host, who mustered the people of the land; and threescore men of the people of the land, that were found in the midst of the city.

52:26    護衛長尼布撒拉旦將這些人帶到利比拉的巴比倫王那裡。
So Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard took them, and brought them to the king of Babylon to Riblah.

52:27    巴比倫王就把他們擊殺在哈馬地的利比拉。這樣，猶大人被擄去離開本地。
And the king of Babylon smote them, and put them to death in Riblah in the land of Hamath. Thus Judah was carried away captive out of his own land.

52:28    尼布甲尼撒所擄的民數記在下面，在他第七年擄去猶大人三千零二十三名。
This is the people whom Nebuchadrezzar carried away captive: in the seventh year three thousand Jews and three and twenty:

52:29    尼布甲尼撒十八年從耶路撒冷擄去八百三十二人。
In the eighteenth year of Nebuchadrezzar he carried away captive from Jerusalem eight hundred thirty and two persons:

52:30    尼布甲尼撒二十三年，護衛長尼布撒拉旦擄去猶大人七百四十五名。共有四千六百人。
In the three and twentieth year of Nebuchadrezzar Nebuzaradan the captain of the guard carried away captive of the Jews seven hundred forty and five persons: all the persons were four thousand and six hundred.

52:31    猶大王約雅斤被擄後三十七年，巴比倫王以未米羅達元年十二月二十五日，使猶大王約雅斤抬頭，提他出監，
And it came to pass in the seven and thirtieth year of the captivity of Jehoiachin king of Judah, in the twelfth month, in the five and twentieth day of the month, that Evilmerodach king of Babylon in the first year of his reign lifted up the head of Jehoiachin king of Judah, and brought him forth out of prison,

52:32    又對他說恩言，使他的位高過與他一同在巴比倫眾王的位，
And spake kindly unto him, and set his throne above the throne of the kings that were with him in Babylon,

52:33    給他脫了囚服。他終身在巴比倫王面前吃飯。
And changed his prison garments: and he did continually eat bread before him all the days of his life.

52:34    巴比倫王賜他所需用的食物，日日賜他一分，終身是這樣，直到他死的日子。
And for his diet, there was a continual diet given him of the king of Babylon, every day a portion until the day of his death, all the days of his life.





