

舊約 -- 耶利米哀歌(Lamentations) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


1:1    先前滿有人民的城，現在何竟獨坐。先前在列國中為大的，現在竟如寡婦。先前在諸省中為王后的，現在成為進貢的。
How doth the city sit solitary, that was full of people! how is she become as a widow! she that was great among the nations, and princess among the provinces, how is she become tributary!

1:2    她夜間痛哭，淚流滿腮。在一切所親愛的中間沒有一個安慰她的。她的朋友都以詭詐待她，成為她的仇敵。
She weepeth sore in the night, and her tears are on her cheeks: among all her lovers she hath none to comfort her: all her friends have dealt treacherously with her, they are become her enemies.

1:3    猶大因遭遇苦難，又因多服勞苦就遷到外邦。她住在列國中，尋不著安息。追逼她的都在狹窄之地將她追上。
Judah is gone into captivity because of affliction, and because of great servitude: she dwelleth among the heathen, she findeth no rest: all her persecutors overtook her between the straits.

1:4    錫安的路徑因無人來守聖節就悲傷。她的城門淒涼。她的祭司嘆息。她的處女受艱難，自己也愁苦。
The ways of Zion do mourn, because none come to the solemn feasts: all her gates are desolate: her priests sigh, her virgins are afflicted, and she is in bitterness.

1:5    她的敵人為首。她的仇敵亨通。因耶和華為她許多的罪過使她受苦。她的孩童被敵人擄去。
Her adversaries are the chief, her enemies prosper; for the LORD hath afflicted her for the multitude of her transgressions: her children are gone into captivity before the enemy.

1:6    錫安城（城原文作女子下同）的威榮全都失去。她的首領像找不著草場的鹿。在追趕的人前無力行走。
And from the daughter of Zion all her beauty is departed: her princes are become like harts that find no pasture, and they are gone without strength before the pursuer.

1:7    耶路撒冷在困苦窘迫之時，就追想古時一切的樂境。她百姓落在敵人手中，無人救濟。敵人看見，就因她的荒涼嗤笑。
Jerusalem remembered in the days of her affliction and of her miseries all her pleasant things that she had in the days of old, when her people fell into the hand of the enemy, and none did help her: the adversaries saw her, and did mock at her sabbaths.

1:8    耶路撒冷大大犯罪，所以成為不潔之物。素來尊敬她的，見她赤露就都藐視她。她自己也嘆息退後。
Jerusalem hath grievously sinned; therefore she is removed: all that honoured her despise her, because they have seen her nakedness: yea, she sigheth, and turneth backward.

1:9    她的汙穢是在衣襟上。她不思想自己的結局，所以非常地敗落，無人安慰她。她說，耶和華阿，求你看我的苦難，因為仇敵誇大。
Her filthiness is in her skirts; she remembereth not her last end; therefore she came down wonderfully: she had no comforter. O LORD, behold my affliction: for the enemy hath magnified himself.

1:10    敵人伸手，奪取她的美物。她眼見外邦人進入她的聖所論這外邦人，你曾吩咐不可入你的會中。
The adversary hath spread out his hand upon all her pleasant things: for she hath seen that the heathen entered into her sanctuary, whom thou didst command that they should not enter into thy congregation.

1:11    她的民都嘆息，尋求食物。他們用美物換糧食，要救性命。他們說，耶和華阿，求你觀看，因為我甚是卑賤。
All her people sigh, they seek bread; they have given their pleasant things for meat to relieve the soul: see, O LORD, and consider; for I am become vile.

1:12    你們一切過路的人哪，這事你們不介意嗎。你們要觀看，有像這臨到我的痛苦沒有就是耶和華在他發烈怒的日子使我所受的苦。
Is it nothing to you, all ye that pass by? behold, and see if there be any sorrow like unto my sorrow, which is done unto me, wherewith the LORD hath afflicted me in the day of his fierce anger.

1:13    他從高天使火進入我的骨頭，剋制了我。他鋪下網羅，絆我的腳，使我轉回。他使我終日淒涼發昏。
From above hath he sent fire into my bones, and it prevaileth against them: he hath spread a net for my feet, he hath turned me back: he hath made me desolate and faint all the day.

1:14    我罪過的軛是他手所綁的，猶如軛繩縛在我頸項上。他使我的力量衰敗。主將我交在我所不能敵擋的人手中。
The yoke of my transgressions is bound by his hand: they are wreathed, and come up upon my neck: he hath made my strength to fall, the LORD hath delivered me into their hands, from whom I am not able to rise up.

1:15    主輕棄我中間的一切勇士，招聚多人（原文作大會）攻擊我，要壓碎我的少年人。主將猶大居民踹下，像在酒榨中一樣。
The LORD hath trodden under foot all my mighty men in the midst of me: he hath called an assembly against me to crush my young men: the LORD hath trodden the virgin, the daughter of Judah, as in a winepress.

1:16    我因這些事哭泣。我眼淚汪汪。因為那當安慰我，救我性命的，離我甚遠。我的兒女孤苦，因為仇敵得了勝。
For these things I weep; mine eye, mine eye runneth down with water, because the comforter that should relieve my soul is far from me: my children are desolate, because the enemy prevailed.



1:17    錫安舉手，無人安慰。耶和華論雅各已經出令，使四圍的人作他仇敵。耶路撒冷在他們中間像不潔之物。
Zion spreadeth forth her hands, and there is none to comfort her: the LORD hath commanded concerning Jacob, that his adversaries should be round about him: Jerusalem is as a menstruous woman among them.

1:18    耶和華是公義的。他這樣待我，是因我違揹他的命令。眾民哪，請聽我的話，看我的痛誇。我的處女和少年人都被擄去。
The LORD is righteous; for I have rebelled against his commandment: hear, I pray you, all people, and behold my sorrow: my virgins and my young men are gone into captivity.

1:19    我招呼我所親愛的，他們卻愚弄我。我的祭司和長老正尋求食物，救性命的時候，就在城中絕氣。
I called for my lovers, but they deceived me: my priests and mine elders gave up the ghost in the city, while they sought their meat to relieve their souls.

1:20    耶和華阿，求你觀看，因為我在急難中。我心腸擾亂。我心在我裡面翻轉，因我大大悖逆。在外，刀劍使人喪子。在家，猶如死亡。
Behold, O LORD; for I am in distress: my bowels are troubled; mine heart is turned within me; for I have grievously rebelled: abroad the sword bereaveth, at home there is as death.

1:21    聽見我嘆息的有人。安慰我的卻無人。我的仇敵都聽見我所遭的患難。因你作這事，他們都喜樂。你必使你報告的日子來到，他們就像我一樣。
They have heard that I sigh: there is none to comfort me: all mine enemies have heard of my trouble; they are glad that thou hast done it: thou wilt bring the day that thou hast called, and they shall be like unto me.

1:22    願他們的惡行都呈在你面前。你怎樣因我的一切罪過待我，求你照樣待他們。因我嘆息甚多，心中發昏。
Let all their wickedness come before thee; and do unto them, as thou hast done unto me for all my transgressions: for my sighs are many, and my heart is faint.




舊約 -- 耶利米哀歌(Lamentations) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


2:1    主何竟發怒，使黑雲遮蔽錫安城。他將以色列的華美從天扔在地上。在他發怒的日子並不記念自己的腳凳。
How hath the LORD covered the daughter of Zion with a cloud in his anger, and cast down from heaven unto the earth the beauty of Israel, and remembered not his footstool in the day of his anger!

2:2    主吞滅雅各一切的住處，並不顧惜。他發怒傾覆猶大民的保障，使這保障坍倒在地。他辱沒這國和其中的首領。
The LORD hath swallowed up all the habitations of Jacob, and hath not pitied: he hath thrown down in his wrath the strong holds of the daughter of Judah; he hath brought them down to the ground: he hath polluted the kingdom and the princes thereof.

2:3    他發烈怒，把以色列的角全然砍斷，在仇敵面前收回右手。他像火焰四圍吞滅，將雅各燒燬。
He hath cut off in his fierce anger all the horn of Israel: he hath drawn back his right hand from before the enemy, and he burned against Jacob like a flaming fire, which devoureth round about.

2:4    他張弓好像仇敵。他站著舉起右手，如同敵人將悅人眼目的，盡行殺戮。在錫安百姓的帳棚上倒出他的忿怒，像火一樣。
He hath bent his bow like an enemy: he stood with his right hand as an adversary, and slew all that were pleasant to the eye in the tabernacle of the daughter of Zion: he poured out his fury like fire.

2:5    主如仇敵吞滅以色列和錫安的一切宮殿，拆毀百姓的保障。在猶大民中加增悲傷哭號。
The LORD was as an enemy: he hath swallowed up Israel, he hath swallowed up all her palaces: he hath destroyed his strong holds, and hath increased in the daughter of Judah mourning and lamentation.

2:6    他強取自己的帳幕，好像是園中的窩棚，毀壞他的聚會之處。耶和華使聖節和安息日在錫安都被忘記，又在怒氣的憤恨中藐視君王和祭司。
And he hath violently taken away his tabernacle, as if it were of a garden: he hath destroyed his places of the assembly: the LORD hath caused the solemn feasts and sabbaths to be forgotten in Zion, and hath despised in the indignation of his anger the king and the priest.

2:7    耶和華丟棄自己的祭壇，憎惡自己的聖所，將宮殿的牆垣交付仇敵。他們在耶和華的殿中喧囔，像在聖會之日一樣。
The LORD hath cast off his altar, he hath abhorred his sanctuary, he hath given up into the hand of the enemy the walls of her palaces; they have made a noise in the house of the LORD, as in the day of a solemn feast.

2:8    耶和華定意拆毀錫安的城牆。他拉了準繩，不將手收回，定要毀滅。他使外郭和城牆都悲哀，一同衰敗。
The LORD hath purposed to destroy the wall of the daughter of Zion: he hath stretched out a line, he hath not withdrawn his hand from destroying: therefore he made the rampart and the wall to lament; they languished together.

2:9    錫安的門都陷入地內。主將她的門閂毀壞，折斷。她的君王和首領落在沒有律法的列國中。她的先知不得見耶和華的異象。
Her gates are sunk into the ground; he hath destroyed and broken her bars: her king and her princes are among the Gentiles: the law is no more; her prophets also find no vision from the LORD.

2:10    錫安城的長老坐在地上默默無聲。他們揚起塵土落在頭上，腰束麻布。耶路撒冷的處女垂頭至地。
The elders of the daughter of Zion sit upon the ground, and keep silence: they have cast up dust upon their heads; they have girded themselves with sackcloth: the virgins of Jerusalem hang down their heads to the ground.

2:11    我眼中流淚，以致失明，我的心腸擾亂，肝膽塗地，都因我眾民遭毀滅，又因孩童和吃奶的在城內街上發昏。
Mine eyes do fail with tears, my bowels are troubled, my liver is poured upon the earth, for the destruction of the daughter of my people; because the children and the sucklings swoon in the streets of the city.

2:12    那時，他們在城內街上發昏，好像受傷的，在母親的懷裡，將要喪命。對母親說，谷酒在哪裡呢。
They say to their mothers, Where is corn and wine? when they swooned as the wounded in the streets of the city, when their soul was poured out into their mothers' bosom.

2:13    耶路撒冷的民哪，我可用什麼向你證明呢。我可用什麼與你相比呢。錫安的民哪，我可拿什麼和你比較，好安慰你呢。因為你的裂口大如海，誰能醫治你呢。
What thing shall I take to witness for thee? what thing shall I liken to thee, O daughter of Jerusalem? what shall I equal to thee, that I may comfort thee, O virgin daughter of Zion? for thy breach is great like the sea: who can heal thee?

2:14    你的先知為你見虛假和愚昧的異象，並沒有顯露你的罪孽，使你被擄的歸回。卻為你見虛假的默示和使你被趕出本境的緣故。
Thy prophets have seen vain and foolish things for thee: and they have not discovered thine iniquity, to turn away thy captivity; but have seen for thee false burdens and causes of banishment.

2:15    凡過路的都向你拍掌。他們向耶路撒冷城嗤笑，搖頭，說，難道人所稱為全美的，稱為全地所喜悅的，就是這城嗎。
All that pass by clap their hands at thee; they hiss and wag their head at the daughter of Jerusalem, saying, Is this the city that men call The perfection of beauty, The joy of the whole earth?

2:16    你的仇敵都向你大大張口。他們嗤笑，又切齒說，我們吞滅她。這真是我們所盼望的日子臨到了。我們親眼看見了。
All thine enemies have opened their mouth against thee: they hiss and gnash the teeth: they say, We have swallowed her up: certainly this is the day that we looked for; we have found, we have seen it.

2:17    耶和華成就了他所定的，應驗了他古時所命定的。他傾覆了，並不顧惜，使你的仇敵向你誇耀。使你敵人的角也被高舉。
The LORD hath done that which he had devised; he hath fulfilled his word that he had commanded in the days of old: he hath thrown down, and hath not pitied: and he hath caused thine enemy to rejoice over thee, he hath set up the horn of thine adversaries.

2:18    錫安民的心哀求主。錫安的城牆阿，願你流淚如河，晝夜不息。願你眼中的瞳人淚流不止。
Their heart cried unto the LORD, O wall of the daughter of Zion, let tears run down like a river day and night: give thyself no rest; let not the apple of thine eye cease.

2:19    夜間，每逢交更的時候要起來呼喊，在主面前傾心如水。你的孩童在各市口上受餓發昏。你要為他們的性命向主舉手禱告。
Arise, cry out in the night: in the beginning of the watches pour out thine heart like water before the face of the LORD: lift up thy hands toward him for the life of thy young children, that faint for hunger in the top of every street.

2:20    耶和華阿，求你觀看。見你向誰這樣行。婦人豈可吃自己所生育手裡所搖弄的嬰孩嗎。祭司和先知豈可在主的聖所中被殺戮嗎。
Behold, O LORD, and consider to whom thou hast done this. Shall the women eat their fruit, and children of a span long? shall the priest and the prophet be slain in the sanctuary of the Lord?

2:21    少年人和老年人都在街上躺臥。我的處女和壯丁都倒在刀下。你發怒的日子殺死他們。你殺了，並不顧惜。
The young and the old lie on the ground in the streets: my virgins and my young men are fallen by the sword; thou hast slain them in the day of thine anger; thou hast killed, and not pitied.

2:22    你招聚四圍驚嚇我的，像在大會的日子招聚人一樣。耶和華髮怒的日子，無人逃脫，無人存留。我所搖弄所養育的嬰孩，仇敵都殺淨了。
Thou hast called as in a solemn day my terrors round about, so that in the day of the LORD's anger none escaped nor remained: those that I have swaddled and brought up hath mine enemy consumed.




舊約 -- 耶利米哀歌(Lamentations) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


3:1    我是因耶和華忿怒的杖，遭遇困苦的人。
I AM the man that hath seen affliction by the rod of his wrath.

3:2    他引導我，使我行在黑暗中，不行在光明裡。
He hath led me, and brought me into darkness, but not into light.

3:3    他真是終日再三反手攻擊我。
Surely against me is he turned; he turneth his hand against me all the day.

3:4    他使我的皮肉枯乾。他折斷（或作壓傷）我的骨頭。
My flesh and my skin hath he made old; he hath broken my bones.

3:5    他築壘攻擊我，用苦楚（原文作苦膽）和艱難圍困我。
He hath builded against me, and compassed me with gall and travail.

3:6    他使我住在幽暗之處，像死了許久的人一樣。
He hath set me in dark places, as they that be dead of old.

3:7    他用籬笆圍住我，使我不能出去。他使我的銅鏈沉重。
He hath hedged me about, that I cannot get out: he hath made my chain heavy.

3:8    我哀號求救。他使我的禱告不得上達。
Also when I cry and shout, he shutteth out my prayer.

3:9    他用鑿過的石頭擋住我的道。他使我的路彎曲。
He hath inclosed my ways with hewn stone, he hath made my paths crooked.

3:10    他向我如熊埋伏，如獅子在隱密處。
He was unto me as a bear lying in wait, and as a lion in secret places.

3:11    他使我轉離正路，將我撕碎，使我淒涼。
He hath turned aside my ways, and pulled me in pieces: he hath made me desolate.

3:12    他張弓將我當作箭靶子。
He hath bent his bow, and set me as a mark for the arrow.

3:13    他把箭袋中的箭射入我的肺腑。
He hath caused the arrows of his quiver to enter into my reins.

3:14    我成了眾民的笑話。他們終日以我為歌曲。
I was a derision to all my people; and their song all the day.

3:15    他用苦楚充滿我，使我飽用茵？？。
He hath filled me with bitterness, he hath made me drunken with wormwood.

3:16    他又用沙石磣斷我的牙，用灰塵將我矇蔽。
He hath also broken my teeth with gravel stones, he hath covered me with ashes.

3:17    你使我遠離平安，我忘記好處。
And thou hast removed my soul far off from peace: I forgat prosperity.

3:18    我就說，我的力量衰敗。我在耶和華那裡毫無指望。
And I said, My strength and my hope is perished from the LORD:

3:19    耶和華阿，求你記念我如茵？？和苦膽的困苦窘迫。
Remembering mine affliction and my misery, the wormwood and the gall.

3:20    我心想念這些，就在裡面憂悶。
My soul hath them still in remembrance, and is humbled in me.

3:21    我想起這事，心裡就有指望。
This I recall to my mind, therefore have I hope.

3:22    我們不致消滅，是出於耶和華諸般的慈愛。是因他的憐憫不致斷絕。
It is of the LORD's mercies that we are not consumed, because his compassions fail not.

3:23    每早晨，這都是新的。你的誠實極其廣大。
They are new every morning: great is thy faithfulness.

3:24    我心裡說，耶和華是我的分，因此，我要仰望他。
The LORD is my portion, saith my soul; therefore will I hope in him.

3:25    凡等候耶和華，心裡尋求他的，耶和華必施恩給他。
The LORD is good unto them that wait for him, to the soul that seeketh him.

3:26    人仰望耶和華，靜默等候他的救恩，這原是好的。
It is good that a man should both hope and quietly wait for the salvation of the LORD.

3:27    人在幼年負軛，這原是好的。
It is good for a man that he bear the yoke in his youth.

3:28    他當獨坐無言，因為這是耶和華加在他身上的。
He sitteth alone and keepeth silence, because he hath borne it upon him.

3:29    他當口貼塵埃，或者有指望。
He putteth his mouth in the dust; if so be there may be hope.

3:30    他當由人打他的腮頰，要滿受凌辱。
He giveth his cheek to him that smiteth him: he is filled full with reproach.

3:31    因為主必不永遠丟棄人。
For the LORD will not cast off for ever:

3:32    主雖使人憂愁，還要照他諸般的慈愛發憐憫。
But though he cause grief, yet will he have compassion according to the multitude of his mercies.

3:33    因他並不甘心使人受苦，使人憂愁。
For he doth not afflict willingly nor grieve the children of men.

3:34    人將世上被囚的踹（原文作壓）在腳下，
To crush under his feet all the prisoners of the earth,

3:35    或在至高者面前屈枉人，
To turn aside the right of a man before the face of the most High,

3:36    或在人的訟事上顛倒是非，這都是主看不上的。
To subvert a man in his cause, the LORD approveth not.

3:37    除非主命定，誰能說成就成呢。
Who is he that saith, and it cometh to pass, when the Lord commandeth it not?

3:38    禍福不都出於至高者的口嗎。
Out of the mouth of the most High proceedeth not evil and good?

3:39    活人因自己的罪受罰，為何發怨言呢。
Wherefore doth a living man complain, a man for the punishment of his sins?

3:40    我們當深深考察自己的行為，再歸向耶和華。
Let us search and try our ways, and turn again to the LORD.

3:41    我們當誠心向天上的神舉手禱告。
Let us lift up our heart with our hands unto God in the heavens.

3:42    我們犯罪背逆，你並不赦免。
We have transgressed and have rebelled: thou hast not pardoned.

3:43    你自被怒氣遮蔽，追趕我們。你施行殺戮，並不顧惜。
Thou hast covered with anger, and persecuted us: thou hast slain, thou hast not pitied.

3:44    你以黑雲遮蔽自己，以致禱告不得透入。
Thou hast covered thyself with a cloud, that our prayer should not pass through.

3:45    你使我們在萬民中成為汙穢和渣滓。
Thou hast made us as the offscouring and refuse in the midst of the people.

3:46    我們的仇敵都向我們大大張口。
All our enemies have opened their mouths against us.

3:47    恐懼和陷坑，殘害和毀滅，都臨近我們。
Fear and a snare is come upon us, desolation and destruction.

3:48    因我眾民遭的毀滅，我就眼淚下流如河。
Mine eye runneth down with rivers of water for the destruction of the daughter of my people.

3:49    我的眼多多流淚，總不止息，
Mine eye trickleth down, and ceaseth not, without any intermission,

3:50    直等耶和華垂顧，從天觀看。
Till the LORD look down, and behold from heaven.

3:51    因我本城的眾民，我的眼，使我的心傷痛。
Mine eye affecteth mine heart because of all the daughters of my city.

3:52    無故與我為仇的追逼我，像追雀鳥一樣。
Mine enemies chased me sore, like a bird, without cause.

3:53    他們使我的命在牢獄中斷絕，並將一塊石頭拋在我身上。
They have cut off my life in the dungeon, and cast a stone upon me.

3:54    眾水流過我頭，我說，我命斷絕了。
Waters flowed over mine head; then I said, I am cut off.

3:55    耶和華阿，我從深牢中求告你的名。
I called upon thy name, O LORD, out of the low dungeon.

3:56    你曾聽見我的聲音。我求你解救，你不要掩耳不聽。
Thou hast heard my voice: hide not thine ear at my breathing, at my cry.

3:57    我求告你的日子，你臨近我，說，不要懼怕。
Thou drewest near in the day that I called upon thee: thou saidst, Fear not.

3:58    主阿，你伸明瞭我的冤。你救贖了我的命。
O LORD, thou hast pleaded the causes of my soul; thou hast redeemed my life.

3:59    耶和華阿，你見了我受的委屈。求你為我伸冤。
O LORD, thou hast seen my wrong: judge thou my cause.

3:60    他們仇恨我，謀害我，你都看見了。
Thou hast seen all their vengeance and all their imaginations against me.

3:61    耶和華阿，你聽見他們辱罵我的話，知道他們向我所設的計，
Thou hast heard their reproach, O LORD, and all their imaginations against me;

3:62    並那些起來攻擊我的人口中所說的話，以及終日向我所設的計謀。
The lips of those that rose up against me, and their device against me all the day.

3:63    求你觀看，他們坐下，起來，都以我為歌曲。
Behold their sitting down, and their rising up; I am their musick.

3:64    耶和華阿，你要按著他們手所作的向他們施行報應。
Render unto them a recompence, O LORD, according to the work of their hands.

3:65    你要使他們心裡剛硬，使你的咒詛臨到他們。
Give them sorrow of heart, thy curse unto them.

3:66    你要發怒追趕他們，從耶和華的天下除滅他們。
Persecute and destroy them in anger from under the heavens of the LORD.




舊約 -- 耶利米哀歌(Lamentations) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


4:1    黃金何其失光；純金何其變色。聖所的石頭倒在各市口上。
How is the gold become dim! how is the most fine gold changed! the stones of the sanctuary are poured out in the top of every street.

4:2    錫安寶貴的眾子好比精金，現在何竟算為窯匠手所作的瓦瓶。
The precious sons of Zion, comparable to fine gold, how are they esteemed as earthen pitchers, the work of the hands of the potter!

4:3    野狗尚且把奶乳哺其子，我民的婦人倒成為殘忍，好像曠野的鴕鳥一般。
Even the sea monsters draw out the breast, they give suck to their young ones: the daughter of my people is become cruel, like the ostriches in the wilderness.

4:4    吃奶孩子的舌頭因乾渴貼住上膛。孩童求餅，無人擘給他們。
The tongue of the sucking child cleaveth to the roof of his mouth for thirst: the young children ask bread, and no man breaketh it unto them.

4:5    素來吃美好食物的，現今在街上變為孤寒。素來臥硃紅褥子的，現今躺臥糞堆。
They that did feed delicately are desolate in the streets: they that were brought up in scarlet embrace dunghills.

4:6    都因我眾民的罪孽比所多瑪的罪還大。所多瑪雖然無人加手於她，還是轉眼之間被傾覆。
For the punishment of the iniquity of the daughter of my people is greater than the punishment of the sin of Sodom, that was overthrown as in a moment, and no hands stayed on her.

4:7    錫安的貴胄素來比雪純淨，比奶更白。他們的身體比紅寶玉（或作珊瑚）更紅，像光潤的藍寶石一樣。
Her Nazarites were purer than snow, they were whiter than milk, they were more ruddy in body than rubies, their polishing was of sapphire:

4:8    現在他們的面貌比煤炭更黑，以致在街上無人認識。他們的面板緊貼骨頭，枯乾如同槁木。
Their visage is blacker than a coal; they are not known in the streets: their skin cleaveth to their bones; it is withered, it is become like a stick.

4:9    餓死的不如被刀殺的，因為這是缺了田間的土產，就身體衰弱，漸漸消滅。
They that be slain with the sword are better than they that be slain with hunger: for these pine away, stricken through for want of the fruits of the field.

4:10    慈悲的婦人，當我眾民被毀滅的時候，親手煮自己的兒女作為食物。
The hands of the pitiful women have sodden their own children: they were their meat in the destruction of the daughter of my people.

4:11    耶和華髮怒成就他所定的，倒出他的烈怒。在錫安使火著起，燒燬錫安的根基。
The LORD hath accomplished his fury; he hath poured out his fierce anger, and hath kindled a fire in Zion, and it hath devoured the foundations thereof.

4:12    地上的君王和世上的居民都不信敵人和仇敵能進耶路撒冷的城門。
The kings of the earth, and all the inhabitants of the world, would not have believed that the adversary and the enemy should have entered into the gates of Jerusalem.

4:13    這都因她先知的罪惡和祭司的罪孽。他們在城中流了義人的血。
For the sins of her prophets, and the iniquities of her priests, that have shed the blood of the just in the midst of her,

4:14    他們在街上如瞎子亂走，又被血玷汙，以致人不能摸他們的衣服。
They have wandered as blind men in the streets, they have polluted themselves with blood, so that men could not touch their garments.

4:15    人向他們喊著說，不潔淨的，躲開，躲開。不要挨近我。他們逃走飄流的時候，列國中有人說，他們不可仍在這裡寄居。
They cried unto them, Depart ye; it is unclean; depart, depart, touch not: when they fled away and wandered, they said among the heathen, They shall no more sojourn there.

4:16    耶和華髮怒，將他們分散，不再眷顧他們。人不重看祭司，也不厚待長老。
The anger of the LORD hath divided them; he will no more regard them: they respected not the persons of the priests, they favoured not the elders.

4:17    我們仰望人來幫助，以致眼目失明，還是枉然。我們所盼望的，竟盼望一個不能救人的國。
As for us, our eyes as yet failed for our vain help: in our watching we have watched for a nation that could not save us.

4:18    仇敵追趕我們的腳步像打獵的，以致我們不敢在自己的街上行走。我們的結局臨近。我們的日子滿足。我們的結局來到了。
They hunt our steps, that we cannot go in our streets: our end is near, our days are fulfilled; for our end is come.

4:19    追趕我們的比空中的鷹更快。他們在山上追逼我們，在曠野埋伏，等候我們。
Our persecutors are swifter than the eagles of the heaven: they pursued us upon the mountains, they laid wait for us in the wilderness.

4:20    耶和華的受膏者好比我們鼻中的氣，在他們的坑中被捉住。我們曾論到他說，我們必在他蔭下，在列國中存活。
The breath of our nostrils, the anointed of the LORD, was taken in their pits, of whom we said, Under his shadow we shall live among the heathen.

4:21    住烏斯地的以東民哪，只管歡喜快樂。苦杯也必傳到你那裡。你必喝醉，以致露體。
Rejoice and be glad, O daughter of Edom, that dwellest in the land of Uz; the cup also shall pass through unto thee: thou shalt be drunken, and shalt make thyself naked.

4:22    錫安的民哪，你罪孽的刑罰受足了，耶和華必不使你再被擄去。以東的民哪，他必追討你的罪孽，顯露你的罪惡。
The punishment of thine iniquity is accomplished, O daughter of Zion; he will no more carry thee away into captivity: he will visit thine iniquity, O daughter of Edom; he will discover thy sins.




舊約 -- 耶利米哀歌(Lamentations) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 5 章 )    　


5:1    耶和華阿，求你記念我們所遭遇的事，觀看我們所受的凌辱。
Remember, O LORD, what is come upon us: consider, and behold our reproach.

5:2    我們的產業歸與外邦人。我們的房屋歸與外路人。
Our inheritance is turned to strangers, our houses to aliens.

5:3    我們是無父的孤兒。我們的母親好像寡婦。
We are orphans and fatherless, our mothers are as widows.

5:4    我們出錢才得水喝。我們的柴是人賣給我們的。
We have drunken our water for money; our wood is sold unto us.

5:5    追趕我們的，到了我們的頸項上。我們疲乏不得歇息。
Our necks are under persecution: we labour, and have no rest.

5:6    我們投降埃及人和亞述人，為要得糧吃飽。
We have given the hand to the Egyptians, and to the Assyrians, to be satisfied with bread.

5:7    我們列祖犯罪，而今不在了。我們擔當他們的罪孽。
Our fathers have sinned, and are not; and we have borne their iniquities.

5:8    奴僕轄制我們，無人救我們脫離他們的手。
Servants have ruled over us: there is none that doth deliver us out of their hand.

5:9    因為曠野的刀劍，我們冒著險才得糧食。
We gat our bread with the peril of our lives because of the sword of the wilderness.

5:10    因飢餓燥熱，我們的面板就黑如爐。
Our skin was black like an oven because of the terrible famine.

5:11    敵人在錫安玷汙婦人，在猶大的城邑玷汙處女。
They ravished the women in Zion, and the maids in the cities of Judah.

5:12    他們吊起首領的手，也不尊敬老人的面。
Princes are hanged up by their hand: the faces of elders were not honoured.

5:13    少年人扛磨石，孩童背木柴，都絆跌了。
They took the young men to grind, and the children fell under the wood.

5:14    老年人在城門口斷絕。少年人不再作樂。
The elders have ceased from the gate, the young men from their musick.

5:15    我們心中的快樂止息，跳舞變為悲哀。
The joy of our heart is ceased; our dance is turned into mourning.

5:16    冠冕從我們的頭上落下。我們犯罪了，我們有禍了。
The crown is fallen from our head: woe unto us, that we have sinned!

5:17    這些事我們心裡發昏，我們的眼睛昏花。
For this our heart is faint; for these things our eyes are dim.

5:18    錫安山荒涼，野狗（或作狐狸）行在其上。
Because of the mountain of Zion, which is desolate, the foxes walk upon it.

5:19    耶和華阿，你存到永遠。你的寶座存到萬代。
Thou, O LORD, remainest for ever; thy throne from generation to generation.

5:20    你為何永遠忘記我們。為何許久離棄我們。
Wherefore dost thou forget us for ever, and forsake us so long time?

5:21    耶和華阿，求你使我們向你迴轉，我們便得迴轉。求你復新我們的日子，像古時一樣。
Turn thou us unto thee, O LORD, and we shall be turned; renew our days as of old.

5:22    你竟全然棄絕我們，向我們大發烈怒。
But thou hast utterly rejected us; thou art very wroth against us.



