
舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


1:1    當三十年四月初五日，以西結（原文作我）在迦巴魯河邊被擄的人中，天就開了，得見神的異象。
Now it came to pass in the thirtieth year, in the fourth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I was among the captives by the river of Chebar, that the heavens were opened, and I saw visions of God.

1:2    正是約雅斤王被擄去第五年四月初五日，
In the fifth day of the month, which was the fifth year of king Jehoiachin's captivity,

1:3    在迦勒底人之地，迦巴魯河邊，耶和華的話特特臨到布西的兒子祭司以西結。耶和華的靈（原文作手）降在他身上。
The word of the LORD came expressly unto Ezekiel the priest, the son of Buzi, in the land of the Chaldeans by the river Chebar; and the hand of the LORD was there upon him.

1:4    我觀看，見狂風從北方刮來，隨著有一朵包括閃爍火的大雲，周圍有光輝。從其中的火內發出好像光耀的精金。
And I looked, and, behold, a whirlwind came out of the north, a great cloud, and a fire infolding itself, and a brightness was about it, and out of the midst thereof as the colour of amber, out of the midst of the fire.

1:5    又從其中顯出四個活物的形像來。他們的形狀是這樣，有人的形像，
Also out of the midst thereof came the likeness of four living creatures. And this was their appearance; they had the likeness of a man.

1:6    各有四個臉面，四個翅膀。
And every one had four faces, and every one had four wings.

1:7    他們的腿是直的，腳掌好像牛犢之蹄，都燦爛如光明的銅。
And their feet were straight feet; and the sole of their feet was like the sole of a calf's foot: and they sparkled like the colour of burnished brass.

1:8    在四面的翅膀以下有人的手。這四個活物的臉和翅膀乃是這樣，
And they had the hands of a man under their wings on their four sides; and they four had their faces and their wings.

1:9    翅膀彼此相接，行走並不轉身，俱各直往前行。
Their wings were joined one to another; they turned not when they went; they went every one straight forward.

1:10    至於臉的形像，前面各有人的臉，右面各有獅子的臉，左面各有牛的臉，後面各有鷹的臉。
As for the likeness of their faces, they four had the face of a man, and the face of a lion, on the right side: and they four had the face of an ox on the left side; they four also had the face of an eagle.

1:11    各展開上邊的兩個翅膀相接，各以下邊的兩個翅膀遮體。
Thus were their faces: and their wings were stretched upward; two wings of every one were joined one to another, and two covered their bodies.

1:12    他們俱各直往前行。靈往哪裡去，他們就往那裡去，行走並不轉身。
And they went every one straight forward: whither the spirit was to go, they went; and they turned not when they went.

1:13    至於四活物的形像，就如燒著火炭的形狀，又如火把的形狀。火在四活物中間上去下來，這火有光輝，從火中發出閃電。
As for the likeness of the living creatures, their appearance was like burning coals of fire, and like the appearance of lamps: it went up and down among the living creatures; and the fire was bright, and out of the fire went forth lightning.

1:14    這活物往來奔走，好像電光一閃。
And the living creatures ran and returned as the appearance of a flash of lightning.

1:15    我正觀看活物的時候，見活物的臉旁各有一輪在地上。
Now as I beheld the living creatures, behold one wheel upon the earth by the living creatures, with his four faces.

1:16    輪的形狀和顏色（原文作作法）好像水蒼玉。四輪都是一個樣式，形狀和作法好像輪中套輪。
The appearance of the wheels and their work was like unto the colour of a beryl: and they four had one likeness: and their appearance and their work was as it were a wheel in the middle of a wheel.

1:17    輪行走的時候，向四方都能直行，並不掉轉。
When they went, they went upon their four sides: and they turned not when they went.

1:18    至於輪輞，高而可畏。四個輪輞周圍滿有眼睛。
As for their rings, they were so high that they were dreadful; and their rings were full of eyes round about them four.

1:19    活物行走，輪也在旁邊行走。活物從地上升，輪也都上升。
And when the living creatures went, the wheels went by them: and when the living creatures were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up.

1:20    靈往哪裡去，活物就往那裡去。活物上升，輪也在活物旁邊上升，因為活物的靈在輪中。
Whithersoever the spirit was to go, they went, thither was their spirit to go; and the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.

1:21    那些行走，這些也行走。那些站住，這些也站住。那些從地上升，輪也在旁邊上升，因為活物的靈在輪中。
When those went, these went; and when those stood, these stood; and when those were lifted up from the earth, the wheels were lifted up over against them: for the spirit of the living creature was in the wheels.

1:22    活物的頭以上有穹蒼的形像，看著像可畏的水晶，鋪張在活物的頭以上。
And the likeness of the firmament upon the heads of the living creature was as the colour of the terrible crystal, stretched forth over their heads above.

1:23    穹蒼以下，活物的翅膀直張，彼此相對。每活物有兩個翅膀遮體。
And under the firmament were their wings straight, the one toward the other: every one had two, which covered on this side, and every one had two, which covered on that side, their bodies.

1:24    活物行走的時候，我聽見翅膀的響聲，像大水的聲音，像全能者的聲音，也像軍隊哄囔的聲音。活物站住的時候，便將翅膀垂下。
And when they went, I heard the noise of their wings, like the noise of great waters, as the voice of the Almighty, the voice of speech, as the noise of an host: when they stood, they let down their wings.

1:25    在他們頭以上的穹蒼之上有聲音。他們站住的時候，便將翅膀垂下。
And there was a voice from the firmament that was over their heads, when they stood, and had let down their wings.

1:26    在他們頭以上的穹蒼之上有寶座的形像，彷佛藍寶石。在寶座形像以上有彷佛人的形狀。
And above the firmament that was over their heads was the likeness of a throne, as the appearance of a sapphire stone: and upon the likeness of the throne was the likeness as the appearance of a man above upon it.

1:27    我見從他腰以上有彷佛光耀的精金，周圍都有火的形狀，又見從他腰以下有彷佛火的形狀，周圍也有光輝。
And I saw as the colour of amber, as the appearance of fire round about within it, from the appearance of his loins even upward, and from the appearance of his loins even downward, I saw as it were the appearance of fire, and it had brightness round about.

1:28    下雨的日子，雲中虹的形狀怎樣，周圍光輝的形狀也是怎樣。這就是耶和華榮耀的形像。我一看見就俯伏在地，又聽見一位說話的聲音。
As the appearance of the bow that is in the cloud in the day of rain, so was the appearance of the brightness round about. This was the appearance of the likeness of the glory of the LORD. And when I saw it, I fell upon my face, and I heard a voice of one that spake.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


2:1    他對我說，人子阿，你站起來，我要和你說話。
And he said unto me, Son of man, stand upon thy feet, and I will speak unto thee.

2:2    他對我說話的時候，靈就進入我裡面，使我站起來，我便聽見那位對我說話的聲音。
And the spirit entered into me when he spake unto me, and set me upon my feet, that I heard him that spake unto me.

2:3    他對我說，人子阿，我差你往悖逆的國民以色列人那裡去。他們是悖逆我的，他們和他們的列祖違揹我，直到今日。
And he said unto me, Son of man, I send thee to the children of Israel, to a rebellious nation that hath rebelled against me: they and their fathers have transgressed against me, even unto this very day.

2:4    這眾子面無羞恥，心裡剛硬。我差你往他們那裡去，你要對他們說，主耶和華如此說。
For they are impudent children and stiffhearted. I do send thee unto them; and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD.

2:5    他們或聽，或不聽，（他們是悖逆之家），必知道在他們中間有了先知。
And they, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear, (for they are a rebellious house,) yet shall know that there hath been a prophet among them.

2:6    人子阿，雖有荊棘和蒺藜在你那裡，你又住在蠍子中間，總不要怕他們，也不要怕他們的話。他們雖是悖逆之家，還不要怕他們的話，也不要因他們的臉色驚惶。
And thou, son of man, be not afraid of them, neither be afraid of their words, though briers and thorns be with thee, and thou dost dwell among scorpions: be not afraid of their words, nor be dismayed at their looks, though they be a rebellious house.

2:7    他們或聽，或不聽，你只管將我的話告訴他們。他們是極其悖逆的。
And thou shalt speak my words unto them, whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear: for they are most rebellious.

2:8    人子阿，要聽我對你所說的話，不要悖逆像那悖逆之家，你要開口吃我所賜給你的。
But thou, son of man, hear what I say unto thee; Be not thou rebellious like that rebellious house: open thy mouth, and eat that I give thee.

2:9    我觀看，見有一隻手向我伸出來，手中有一書卷。
And when I looked, behold, an hand was sent unto me; and, lo, a roll of a book was therein;

2:10    他將書卷在我面前晒開，內外都寫著字，其上所寫的有哀號，嘆息，悲痛的話。
And he spread it before me; and it was written within and without: and there was written therein lamentations, and mourning, and woe.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


3:1    他對我說，人子阿，要吃你所得的，要吃這書卷，好去對以色列家講說。
Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, eat that thou findest; eat this roll, and go speak unto the house of Israel.

3:2    於是我開口，他就使我吃這書卷，
So I opened my mouth, and he caused me to eat that roll.

3:3    又對我說，人子阿，要吃我所賜給你的這書卷，充滿你的肚腹。我就吃了，口中覺得其甜如蜜。
And he said unto me, Son of man, cause thy belly to eat, and fill thy bowels with this roll that I give thee. Then did I eat it; and it was in my mouth as honey for sweetness.

3:4    他對我說，人子阿，你往以色列家那裡去，將我的話對他們講說。
And he said unto me, Son of man, go, get thee unto the house of Israel, and speak with my words unto them.

3:5    你奉差遣不是往那說話深奧，言語難懂的民那裡去，乃是往以色列家去。
For thou art not sent to a people of a strange speech and of an hard language, but to the house of Israel;

3:6    不是往那說話深奧，言語難懂的多國去，他們的話語是你不懂得的。我若差你往他們那裡去，他們必聽從你。
Not to many people of a strange speech and of an hard language, whose words thou canst not understand. Surely, had I sent thee to them, they would have hearkened unto thee.

3:7    以色列家卻不肯聽從你，因為他們不肯聽從我。原來以色列全家是額堅心硬的人。
But the house of Israel will not hearken unto thee; for they will not hearken unto me: for all the house of Israel are impudent and hardhearted.

3:8    看哪，我使你的臉硬過他們的臉，使你的額硬過他們的額。
Behold, I have made thy face strong against their faces, and thy forehead strong against their foreheads.

3:9    我使你的額像金鋼鑽，比火石更硬。他們雖是悖逆之家，你不要怕他們，也不要因他們的臉色驚惶。
As an adamant harder than flint have I made thy forehead: fear them not, neither be dismayed at their looks, though they be a rebellious house.

3:10    他又對我說，人子阿，我對你所說的一切話，要心裡領會，耳中聽聞。
Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, all my words that I shall speak unto thee receive in thine heart, and hear with thine ears.

3:11    你往你本國被擄的子民那裡去，他們或聽，或不聽，你要對他們講說，告訴他們這是主耶和華說的。
And go, get thee to them of the captivity, unto the children of thy people, and speak unto them, and tell them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; whether they will hear, or whether they will forbear.

3:12    那時，靈將我舉起，我就聽見在我身後有震動轟轟的聲音，說，從耶和華的所在顯出來的榮耀是該稱頌的。
Then the spirit took me up, and I heard behind me a voice of a great rushing, saying, Blessed be the glory of the LORD from his place.

3:13    我又聽見那活物翅膀相碰，與活物旁邊輪子旋轉震動轟轟的響聲。
I heard also the noise of the wings of the living creatures that touched one another, and the noise of the wheels over against them, and a noise of a great rushing.

3:14    於是靈將我舉起，帶我而去。我心中甚苦，靈性忿激，並且耶和華的靈（原文作手）在我身上大有能力。
So the spirit lifted me up, and took me away, and I went in bitterness, in the heat of my spirit; but the hand of the LORD was strong upon me.

3:15    我就來到提勒亞畢，住在迦巴魯河邊被擄的人那裡，到他們所住的地方，在他們中間憂憂悶悶地坐了七日。
Then I came to them of the captivity at Telabib, that dwelt by the river of Chebar, and I sat where they sat, and remained there astonished among them seven days.

3:16    過了七日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And it came to pass at the end of seven days, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

3:17    人子阿，我立你作以色列家守望的人，所以你要聽我口中的話，替我警戒他們。
Son of man, I have made thee a watchman unto the house of Israel: therefore hear the word at my mouth, and give them warning from me.

3:18    我何時指著惡人說，他必要死。你若不警戒他，也不勸戒他，使他離開惡行，拯救他的性命，這惡人必死在罪孽之中。我卻要向你討他喪命的罪（原文作血）。
When I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; and thou givest him not warning, nor speakest to warn the wicked from his wicked way, to save his life; the same wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand.

3:19    倘若你警戒惡人，他仍不轉離罪惡，也不離開惡行，他必死在罪孽之中，你卻救自己脫離了罪。
Yet if thou warn the wicked, and he turn not from his wickedness, nor from his wicked way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul.

3:20    再者，義人何時離義而犯罪，我將絆腳石放在他面前，他就必死。因你沒有警戒他，他必死在罪中，他素來所行的義不被記念。我卻要向你討他喪命的罪（原文作血）。
Again, When a righteous man doth turn from his righteousness, and commit iniquity, and I lay a stumbling-block before him, he shall die: because thou hast not given him warning, he shall die in his sin, and his righteousness which he hath done shall not be remembered; but his blood will I require at thine hand.

3:21    倘若你警戒義人，使他不犯罪，他就不犯罪。他因受警戒就必存活，你也救自己脫離了罪。
Nevertheless if thou warn the righteous man, that the righteous sin not, and he doth not sin, he shall surely live, because he is warned; also thou hast delivered thy soul.

3:22    耶和華的靈（原文作手）在那裡降在我身上。他對我說，你起來往平原去，我要在那裡和你說話。
And the hand of the LORD was there upon me; and he said unto me, Arise, go forth into the plain, and I will there talk with thee.

3:23    於是我起來往平原去，不料，耶和華的榮耀正如我在迦巴魯河邊所見的一樣，停在那裡，我就俯伏於地。
Then I arose, and went forth into the plain: and, behold, the glory of the LORD stood there, as the glory which I saw by the river of Chebar: and I fell on my face.

3:24    靈就進入我裡面，使我站起來。耶和華對我說，你進房屋去，將門關上。
Then the spirit entered into me, and set me upon my feet, and spake with me, and said unto me, Go, shut thyself within thine house.

3:25    人子阿，人必用繩索捆綁你，你就不能出去在他們中間來往。
But thou, O son of man, behold, they shall put bands upon thee, and shall bind thee with them, and thou shalt not go out among them:

3:26    我必使你的舌頭貼住上膛，以致你啞口，不能作責備他們的人。他們原是悖逆之家。
And I will make thy tongue cleave to the roof of thy mouth, that thou shalt be dumb, and shalt not be to them a reprover: for they are a rebellious house.

3:27    但我對你說話的時候，必使你開口，你就要對他們說，主耶和華如此說。聽的可以聽，不聽的任他不聽，因為他們是悖逆之家。
But when I speak with thee, I will open thy mouth, and thou shalt say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; He that heareth, let him hear; and he that forbeareth, let him forbear: for they are a rebellious house.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


4:1    人子阿，你要拿一塊磚，擺在你面前，將一座耶路撒冷城畫在其上，
Thou also, son of man, take thee a tile, and lay it before thee, and pourtray upon it the city, even Jerusalem:

4:2    又圍困這城，造臺築壘，安營攻擊，在四圍安設撞錘攻城，
And lay siege against it, and build a fort against it, and cast a mount against it; set the camp also against it, and set battering rams against it round about.

4:3    又要拿個鐵鏊，放在你和城的中間，作為鐵牆。你要對面攻擊這城，使城被困。這樣，好作以色列家的預兆。
Moreover take thou unto thee an iron pan, and set it for a wall of iron between thee and the city: and set thy face against it, and it shall be besieged, and thou shalt lay siege against it. This shall be a sign to the house of Israel.

4:4    你要向左側臥，承當以色列家的罪孽。要按你向左側臥的日數，擔當他們的罪孽。
Lie thou also upon thy left side, and lay the iniquity of the house of Israel upon it: according to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon it thou shalt bear their iniquity.

4:5    因為我已將他們作孽的年數定為你向左側臥的日數，就是三百九十日，你要這樣擔當以色列家的罪孽。
For I have laid upon thee the years of their iniquity, according to the number of the days, three hundred and ninety days: so shalt thou bear the iniquity of the house of Israel.

4:6    再者，你滿了這些日子，還要向右側臥，擔當猶大家的罪孽。我給你定規側臥四十日，一日頂一年。
And when thou hast accomplished them, lie again on thy right side, and thou shalt bear the iniquity of the house of Judah forty days: I have appointed thee each day for a year.

4:7    你要露出膀臂，面向被困的耶路撒冷，說預言攻擊這城。
Therefore thou shalt set thy face toward the siege of Jerusalem, and thine arm shall be uncovered, and thou shalt prophesy against it.

4:8    我用繩索捆綁你，使你不能輾轉，直等你滿了困城的日子。
And, behold, I will lay bands upon thee, and thou shalt not turn thee from one side to another, till thou hast ended the days of thy siege.

4:9    你要取小麥，大麥，豆子，紅豆，小米，粗麥，裝在一個器皿中，用以為自己作餅。要按你側臥的三百九十日吃這餅。
Take thou also unto thee wheat, and barley, and beans, and lentiles, and millet, and fitches, and put them in one vessel, and make thee bread thereof, according to the number of the days that thou shalt lie upon thy side, three hundred and ninety days shalt thou eat thereof.

4:10    你所吃的要按分兩吃，每日二十舍客勒，按時而吃。
And thy meat which thou shalt eat shall be by weight, twenty shekels a day: from time to time shalt thou eat it.

4:11    你喝水也要按制子，每日喝一欣六分之一，按時而喝。
Thou shalt drink also water by measure, the sixth part of an hin: from time to time shalt thou drink.

4:12    你吃這餅像吃大麥餅一樣，要用人糞在眾人眼前燒烤。
And thou shalt eat it as barley cakes, and thou shalt bake it with dung that cometh out of man, in their sight.

4:13    耶和華說，以色列人在我所趕他們到的各國中，也必這樣吃不潔淨的食物。
And the LORD said, Even thus shall the children of Israel eat their defiled bread among the Gentiles, whither I will drive them.

4:14    我說，哎。主耶和華阿，我素來未曾被玷汙，從幼年到如今沒有吃過自死的，或被野獸撕裂的，那可憎的肉也未曾入我的口。
Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! behold, my soul hath not been polluted: for from my youth up even till now have I not eaten of that which dieth of itself, or is torn in pieces; neither came there abominable flesh into my mouth.

4:15    於是他對我說，看哪，我給你牛糞代替人糞，你要將你的餅烤在其上。
Then he said unto me, Lo, I have given thee cow's dung for man's dung, and thou shalt prepare thy bread therewith.

4:16    他又對我說，人子阿，我必在耶路撒冷折斷他們的杖，就是斷絕他們的糧。他們吃餅要按分兩，憂慮而吃。喝水也要按制子，驚惶而喝。
Moreover he said unto me, Son of man, behold, I will break the staff of bread in Jerusalem: and they shall eat bread by weight, and with care; and they shall drink water by measure, and with astonishment:

4:17    使他們缺糧缺水，彼此驚惶，因自己的罪孽消滅。
That they may want bread and water, and be astonied one with another, and consume away for their iniquity.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


5:1    人子阿，你要拿一把快刀，當作剃頭刀，用這刀剃你的頭髮和你的鬍鬚，用天平將鬚髮平分。
And thou, son of man, take thee a sharp knife, take thee a barber's razor, and cause it to pass upon thine head and upon thy beard: then take thee balances to weigh, and divide the hair.

5:2    圍困城的日子滿了，你要將三分之一在城中用火焚燒，將三分之一在城的四圍用刀砍碎，將三分之一任風吹散。我也要拔刀追趕。
Thou shalt burn with fire a third part in the midst of the city, when the days of the siege are fulfilled: and thou shalt take a third part, and smite about it with a knife: and a third part thou shalt scatter in the wind; and I will draw out a sword after them.

5:3    你要從其中取幾根包在衣襟裡，
Thou shalt also take thereof a few in number, and bind them in thy skirts.

5:4    再從這幾根中取些扔在火中焚燒，從裡面必有火出來燒入以色列全家。
Then take of them again, and cast them into the midst of the fire, and burn them in the fire; for thereof shall a fire come forth into all the house of Israel.

5:5    主耶和華如此說，這就是耶路撒冷。我曾將她安置在列邦之中。列國都在她的四圍。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; This is Jerusalem: I have set it in the midst of the nations and countries that are round about her.

5:6    她行惡，違揹我的典章，過於列國。干犯我的律例，過於四圍的列邦，因為她棄掉我的典章。至於我的律例，她並沒有遵行。
And she hath changed my judgments into wickedness more than the nations, and my statutes more than the countries that are round about her: for they have refused my judgments and my statutes, they have not walked in them.

5:7    所以主耶和華如此說，因為你們紛爭過於四圍的列國，也不遵行我的律例，不謹守我的典章，並以遵從四圍列國的惡規尚不滿意，
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye multiplied more than the nations that are round about you, and have not walked in my statutes, neither have kept my judgments, neither have done according to the judgments of the nations that are round about you;

5:8    所以主耶和華如此說，看哪，我與你反對，必在列國的眼前，在你中間，施行審判。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, am against thee, and will execute judgments in the midst of thee in the sight of the nations.

5:9    並且因你一切可憎的事，我要在你中間行我所未曾行的，以後我也不再照著行。
And I will do in thee that which I have not done, and whereunto I will not do any more the like, because of all thine abominations.

5:10    在你中間父親要吃兒子，兒子要吃父親。我必向你施行審判，我必將你所剩下的分散四方（方原文作風）。
Therefore the fathers shall eat the sons in the midst of thee, and the sons shall eat their fathers; and I will execute judgments in thee, and the whole remnant of thee will I scatter into all the winds.

5:11    主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，因你用一切可憎的物，可厭的事玷汙了我的聖所，故此，我定要使你人數減少，我眼必不顧惜你，也不可憐你。
Wherefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD; Surely, because thou hast defiled my sanctuary with all thy detestable things, and with all thine abominations, therefore will I also diminish thee; neither shall mine eye spare, neither will I have any pity.

5:12    你的民三分之一必遭瘟疫而死，在你中間必因饑荒消滅。三分之一必在你四圍倒在刀下。我必將三分之一分散四方（方原文作風），並要拔刀追趕他們。
A third part of thee shall die with the pestilence, and with famine shall they be consumed in the midst of thee: and a third part shall fall by the sword round about thee; and I will scatter a third part into all the winds, and I will draw out a sword after them.

5:13    我要這樣成就怒中所定的。我向他們發的忿怒止息了，自己就得著安慰。我在他們身上成就怒中所定的那時，他們就知道我耶和華所說的是出於熱心。
Thus shall mine anger be accomplished, and I will cause my fury to rest upon them, and I will be comforted: and they shall know that I the LORD have spoken it in my zeal, when I have accomplished my fury in them.

5:14    並且我必使你在四圍的列國中，在經過的眾人眼前，成了荒涼和羞辱。
Moreover I will make thee waste, and a reproach among the nations that are round about thee, in the sight of all that pass by.

5:15    這樣，我必以怒氣和忿怒，並烈怒的責備，向你施行審判。那時，你就在四圍的列國中成為羞辱，譏刺，警戒，驚駭。這是我耶和華說的。
So it shall be a reproach and a taunt, an instruction and an astonishment unto the nations that are round about thee, when I shall execute judgments in thee in anger and in fury and in furious rebukes. I the LORD have spoken it.

5:16    那時，我要將滅人，使人饑荒的惡箭，就是射去滅人的，射在你們身上，並要加增你們的饑荒，斷絕你們所倚靠的糧食。
When I shall send upon them the evil arrows of famine, which shall be for their destruction, and which I will send to destroy you: and I will increase the famine upon you, and will break your staff of bread:

5:17    又要使饑荒和惡獸到你那裡，叫你喪子，瘟疫和流血的事也必盛行在你那裡。我也要使刀劍臨到你。這是我耶和華說的。
So will I send upon you famine and evil beasts, and they shall bereave thee; and pestilence and blood shall pass through thee; and I will bring the sword upon thee. I the LORD have spoken it.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


6:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

6:2    人子阿，你要面向以色列的眾山說預言，
Son of man, set thy face toward the mountains of Israel, and prophesy against them,

6:3    說，以色列的眾山哪，要聽主耶和華的話。主耶和華對大山，小岡，水溝，山谷如此說，我必使刀劍臨到你們，也必毀滅你們的邱壇。
And say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith the Lord GOD to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys; Behold, I, even I, will bring a sword upon you, and I will destroy your high places.



6:4    你們的祭壇必然荒涼，你們的日像必被打碎。我要使你們被殺的人倒在你們的偶像面前。
And your altars shall be desolate, and your images shall be broken: and I will cast down your slain men before your idols.

6:5    我也要將以色列人的屍首放在他們的偶像面前，將你們的骸骨拋散在你們祭壇的四圍。
And I will lay the dead carcases of the children of Israel before their idols; and I will scatter your bones round about your altars.

6:6    在你們一切的住處，城邑要變為荒場，邱壇必然淒涼，使你們的祭壇荒廢，將你們的偶像打碎。你們的日像被砍倒，你們的工作被毀滅。
In all your dwellingplaces the cities shall be laid waste, and the high places shall be desolate; that your altars may be laid waste and made desolate, and your idols may be broken and cease, and your images may be cut down, and your works may be abolished.

6:7    被殺的人必倒在你們中間，你們就知道我是耶和華。
And the slain shall fall in the midst of you, and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

6:8    你們分散在各國的時候，我必在列邦中使你們有剩下脫離刀劍的人。
Yet will I leave a remnant, that ye may have some that shall escape the sword among the nations, when ye shall be scattered through the countries.

6:9    那脫離刀劍的人必在所擄到的各國中記念我，為他們心中何等傷破，是因他們起淫心，遠離我，眼對偶像行邪淫。他們因行一切可憎的惡事，必厭惡自己。
And they that escape of you shall remember me among the nations whither they shall be carried captives, because I am broken with their whorish heart, which hath departed from me, and with their eyes, which go a whoring after their idols: and they shall lothe themselves for the evils which they have committed in all their abominations.

6:10    他們必知道我是耶和華。我說要使這災禍臨到他們身上，並非空話。
And they shall know that I am the LORD, and that I have not said in vain that I would do this evil unto them.

6:11    主耶和華如此說，你當拍手頓足，說，哀哉。以色列家行這一切可憎的惡事，他們必倒在刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫之下。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Smite with thine hand, and stamp with thy foot, and say, Alas for all the evil abominations of the house of Israel! for they shall fall by the sword, by the famine, and by the pestilence.

6:12    在遠處的，必遭瘟疫而死。在近處的，必倒在刀劍之下。那存留被圍困的，必因饑荒而死。我必這樣在他們身上成就我怒中所定的。
He that is far off shall die of the pestilence; and he that is near shall fall by the sword; and he that remaineth and is besieged shall die by the famine: thus will I accomplish my fury upon them.

6:13    他們被殺的人，倒在他們祭壇四圍的偶像中，就是各高岡，各山頂，各青翠樹下，各茂密的橡樹下，乃是他們獻馨香的祭牲給一切偶像的地方。那時，他們就知道我是耶和華。
Then shall ye know that I am the LORD, when their slain men shall be among their idols round about their altars, upon every high hill, in all the tops of the mountains, and under every green tree, and under every thick oak, the place where they did offer sweet savour to all their idols.

6:14    我必伸手攻擊他們，使他們的地從曠野到第伯拉他一切住處極其荒涼，他們就知道我是耶和華。
So will I stretch out my hand upon them, and make the land desolate, yea, more desolate than the wilderness toward Diblath, in all their habitations: and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


7:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

7:2    人子阿，主耶和華對以色列地如此說，結局到了，結局到了地的四境。
Also, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD unto the land of Israel; An end, the end is come upon the four corners of the land.

7:3    現在你的結局已經臨到，我必使我的怒氣歸與你，也必按你的行為審判你，照你一切可憎的事刑罰你。
Now is the end come upon thee, and I will send mine anger upon thee, and will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompense upon thee all thine abominations.

7:4    我眼必不顧惜你，也不可憐你，卻要按你所行的報應你，照你中間可憎的事刑罰你。你就知道我是耶和華。
And mine eye shall not spare thee, neither will I have pity: but I will recompense thy ways upon thee, and thine abominations shall be in the midst of thee: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

7:5    主耶和華如此說，有一災，獨有一災。看哪，臨近了。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; An evil, an only evil, behold, is come.

7:6    結局來了，結局來了，向你興起。看哪，來到了。
An end is come, the end is come: it watcheth for thee; behold, it is come.

7:7    境內的居民哪，所定的災臨到你，時候到了，日子近了，乃是哄囔並非在山上歡呼的日子。
The morning is come unto thee, O thou that dwellest in the land: the time is come, the day of trouble is near, and not the sounding again of the mountains.

7:8    我快要將我的忿怒傾在你身上，向你成就我怒中所定的，按你的行為審判你，照你一切可憎的事刑罰你。
Now will I shortly pour out my fury upon thee, and accomplish mine anger upon thee: and I will judge thee according to thy ways, and will recompense thee for all thine abominations.

7:9    我眼必不顧惜你，也不可憐你，必按你所行的報應你，照你中間可憎的事刑罰你。你就知道擊打你的是我耶和華。
And mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: I will recompense thee according to thy ways and thine abominations that are in the midst of thee; and ye shall know that I am the LORD that smiteth.

7:10    看哪，看哪，日子快到了，所定的災已經發出。杖已經開花，驕傲已經發芽。
Behold the day, behold, it is come: the morning is gone forth; the rod hath blossomed, pride hath budded.

7:11    強暴興起，成了罰惡的杖。以色列人，或是他們的群眾，或是他們的財寶，無一存留，他們中間也沒有得尊榮的。
Violence is risen up into a rod of wickedness: none of them shall remain, nor of their multitude, nor of any of theirs: neither shall there be wailing for them.

7:12    時候到了，日子近了，買主不可歡喜，賣主不可愁煩，因為烈怒已經臨到他們眾人身上。
The time is come, the day draweth near: let not the buyer rejoice, nor the seller mourn: for wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.

7:13    賣主雖然存活，卻不能歸回再得所賣的，因為這異象關乎他們眾人。誰都不得歸回，也沒有人在他的罪孽中堅立自己。
For the seller shall not return to that which is sold, although they were yet alive: for the vision is touching the whole multitude thereof, which shall not return; neither shall any strengthen himself in the iniquity of his life.

7:14    他們已經吹角，預備齊全，卻無一人出戰，因為我的烈怒臨到他們眾人身上。
They have blown the trumpet, even to make all ready; but none goeth to the battle: for my wrath is upon all the multitude thereof.

7:15    在外有刀劍，在內有瘟疫，饑荒。在田野的，必遭刀劍而死。在城中的，必有饑荒，瘟疫吞滅他。
The sword is without, and the pestilence and the famine within: he that is in the field shall die with the sword; and he that is in the city, famine and pestilence shall devour him.

7:16    其中所逃脫的就必逃脫，各人因自己的罪孽在山上發出悲聲，好像谷中的鴿子哀嗚。
But they that escape of them shall escape, and shall be on the mountains like doves of the valleys, all of them mourning, every one for his iniquity.

7:17    手都發軟，膝弱如水。
All hands shall be feeble, and all knees shall be weak as water.

7:18    要用麻布束腰，被戰兢所蓋。各人臉上羞愧，頭上光禿。
They shall also gird themselves with sackcloth, and horror shall cover them; and shame shall be upon all faces, and baldness upon all their heads.

7:19    他們要將銀子拋在街上，金子看如汙穢之物。當耶和華髮怒的日子，他們的金銀不能救他們，不能使心裡知足，也不能使肚腹飽滿，因為這金銀作了他們罪孽的絆腳石。
They shall cast their silver in the streets, and their gold shall be removed: their silver and their gold shall not be able to deliver them in the day of the wrath of the LORD: they shall not satisfy their souls, neither fill their bowels: because it is the stumblingblock of their iniquity.

7:20    論到耶和華妝飾華美的殿，他建立得威嚴，他們卻在其中製造可憎可厭的偶像，所以這殿我使他們看如汙穢之物。
As for the beauty of his ornament, he set it in majesty: but they made the images of their abominations and of their detestable things therein: therefore have I set it far from them.

7:21    我必將這殿交付外邦人為掠物，交付地上的惡人為擄物。他們也必褻瀆這殿。
And I will give it into the hands of the strangers for a prey, and to the wicked of the earth for a spoil; and they shall pollute it.

7:22    我必轉臉不顧以色列人，他們褻瀆我隱密之所，強盜也必進去褻瀆。
My face will I turn also from them, and they shall pollute my secret place: for the robbers shall enter into it, and defile it.

7:23    要製造鎖鏈。因為這地遍滿流血的罪，城邑充滿強暴的事，
Make a chain: for the land is full of bloody crimes, and the city is full of violence.

7:24    所以我必使列國中最惡的人來佔據他們的房屋。我必使強暴人的驕傲止息，他們的聖所都要被褻瀆。
Wherefore I will bring the worst of the heathen, and they shall possess their houses: I will also make the pomp of the strong to cease; and their holy places shall be defiled.

7:25    毀滅臨近了，他們要求平安，卻無平安可得。
Destruction cometh; and they shall seek peace, and there shall be none.

7:26    災害加上災害，風聲接連風聲。他們必向先知求異象，但祭司講的律法，長老設的謀略都必斷絕。
Mischief shall come upon mischief, and rumour shall be upon rumour; then shall they seek a vision of the prophet; but the law shall perish from the priest, and counsel from the ancients.

7:27    君要悲哀，王要披淒涼為衣，國民的手都發顫。我必照他們的行為待他們，按他們應得的審判他們，他們就知道我是耶和華。
The king shall mourn, and the prince shall be clothed with desolation, and the hands of the people of the land shall be troubled: I will do unto them after their way, and according to their deserts will I judge them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


8:1    第六年六月初五日，我坐在家中。猶大的眾長老坐在我面前。在那裡主耶和華的靈（原文作手）降在我身上。
And it came to pass in the sixth year, in the sixth month, in the fifth day of the month, as I sat in mine house, and the elders of Judah sat before me, that the hand of the Lord GOD fell there upon me.

8:2    我觀看，見有形像彷佛火的形狀，從他腰以下的形狀有火，從他腰以上有光輝的形狀，彷佛光耀的精金。
Then I beheld, and lo a likeness as the appearance of fire: from the appearance of his loins even downward, fire; and from his loins even upward, as the appearance of brightness, as the colour of amber.

8:3    他伸出彷佛一隻手的樣式，抓住我的一綹頭髮，靈就將我舉到天地中間，在神的異象中，帶我到耶路撒冷朝北的內院門口，在那裡有觸動主怒偶像的坐位，就是惹動忌邪的。
And he put forth the form of an hand, and took me by a lock of mine head; and the spirit lifted me up between the earth and the heaven, and brought me in the visions of God to Jerusalem, to the door of the inner gate that looketh toward the north; where was the seat of the image of jealousy, which provoketh to jealousy.

8:4    誰知，在那裡有以色列神的榮耀，形狀與我在平原所見的一樣。
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there, according to the vision that I saw in the plain.

8:5    神對我說，人子阿，你舉目向北觀看。我就舉目向北觀看，見祭壇門的北邊在門口有這惹忌邪的偶像。
Then said he unto me, Son of man, lift up thine eyes now the way toward the north. So I lifted up mine eyes the way toward the north, and behold northward at the gate of the altar this image of jealousy in the entry.

8:6    又對我說，人子阿，以色列家所行的，就是在此行這大可憎的事，使我遠離我的聖所，你看見了嗎。你還要看見另有大可憎的事。
He said furthermore unto me, Son of man, seest thou what they do? even the great abominations that the house of Israel committeth here, that I should go far off from my sanctuary? but turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations.

8:7    他領我到院門口。我觀看，見牆上有個窟窿。
And he brought me to the door of the court; and when I looked, behold a hole in the wall.

8:8    他對我說，人子阿，你要挖牆。我一挖牆，見有一門。
Then said he unto me, Son of man, dig now in the wall: and when I had digged in the wall, behold a door.

8:9    他說，你進去，看他們在這裡所行可憎的惡事。
And he said unto me, Go in, and behold the wicked abominations that they do here.

8:10    我進去一看，誰知，在四面牆上畫著各樣爬物和可憎的走獸，並以色列家一切的偶像。
So I went in and saw; and behold every form of creeping things, and abominable beasts, and all the idols of the house of Israel, pourtrayed upon the wall round about.

8:11    在這些像前有以色列家的七十個長老站立，沙番的兒子雅撒尼亞也站在其中。各人手拿香爐，煙雲的香氣上騰。
And there stood before them seventy men of the ancients of the house of Israel, and in the midst of them stood Jaazaniah the son of Shaphan, with every man his censer in his hand; and a thick cloud of incense went up.

8:12    他對我說，人子阿，以色列家的長老暗中在各人畫像屋裡所行的，你看見了嗎。他們常說，耶和華看不見我們。耶和華已經離棄這地。
Then said he unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen what the ancients of the house of Israel do in the dark, every man in the chambers of his imagery? for they say, The LORD seeth us not; the LORD hath forsaken the earth.

8:13    他又說，你還要看見他們另外行大可憎的事。
He said also unto me, Turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations that they do.

8:14    他領我到耶和華殿外院朝北的門口。誰知，在那裡有婦女坐著，為搭模斯哭泣。
Then he brought me to the door of the gate of the LORD's house which was toward the north; and, behold, there sat women weeping for Tammuz.

8:15    他對我說，人子阿，你看見了嗎。你還要看見比這更可憎的事。
Then said he unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? turn thee yet again, and thou shalt see greater abominations than these.

8:16    他又領我到耶和華殿的內院。誰知，在耶和華的殿門口，廊子和祭壇中間，約有二十五個人背向耶和華的殿，面向東方拜日頭。
And he brought me into the inner court of the LORD's house, and, behold, at the door of the temple of the LORD, between the porch and the altar, were about five and twenty men, with their backs toward the temple of the LORD, and their faces toward the east; and they worshipped the sun toward the east.

8:17    他對我說，人子阿，你看見了嗎。猶大家在此行這可憎的事還算為小嗎。他們在這地遍行強暴，再三惹我發怒，他們手拿枝條舉向鼻前。
Then he said unto me, Hast thou seen this, O son of man? Is it a light thing to the house of Judah that they commit the abominations which they commit here? for they have filled the land with violence, and have returned to provoke me to anger: and, lo, they put the branch to their nose.

8:18    因此，我也要以忿怒行事，我眼必不顧惜，也不可憐他們。他們雖向我耳中大聲呼求，我還是不聽。
Therefore will I also deal in fury: mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity: and though they cry in mine ears with a loud voice, yet will I not hear them.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


9:1    他向我耳中大聲喊叫說，要使那監管這城的人手中各拿滅命的兵器前來。
He cried also in mine ears with a loud voice, saying, Cause them that have charge over the city to draw near, even every man with his destroying weapon in his hand.

9:2    忽然有六個人從朝北的上門而來，各人手拿殺人的兵器。內中有一人身穿細麻衣，腰間帶著墨盒子。他們進來，站在銅祭壇旁。
And, behold, six men came from the way of the higher gate, which lieth toward the north, and every man a slaughter weapon in his hand; and one man among them was clothed with linen, with a writer's inkhorn by his side: and they went in, and stood beside the brasen altar.

9:3    以色列神的榮耀本在基路伯上，現今從那裡升到殿的門檻。神將那身穿細麻衣，腰間帶著墨盒子的人召來。
And the glory of the God of Israel was gone up from the cherub, whereupon he was, to the threshold of the house. And he called to the man clothed with linen, which had the writer's inkhorn by his side;

9:4    耶和華對他說，你去走遍耶路撒冷全城，那些因城中所行可憎之事嘆息哀哭的人，畫記號在額上。
And the LORD said unto him, Go through the midst of the city, through the midst of Jerusalem, and set a mark upon the foreheads of the men that sigh and that cry for all the abominations that be done in the midst thereof.

9:5    我耳中聽見他對其餘的人說，要跟隨他走遍全城，以行擊殺。你們的眼不要顧惜，也不要可憐他們。
And to the others he said in mine hearing, Go ye after him through the city, and smite: let not your eye spare, neither have ye pity:

9:6    要將年老的，年少的，並處女，嬰孩，和婦女，從聖所起全都殺盡，只是凡有記號的人不要挨近他。於是他們從殿前的長老殺起。
Slay utterly old and young, both maids, and little children, and women: but come not near any man upon whom is the mark; and begin at my sanctuary. Then they began at the ancient men which were before the house.

9:7    他對他們說，要汙穢這殿，使院中充滿被殺的人。你們出去吧。他們就出去，在城中擊殺。
And he said unto them, Defile the house, and fill the courts with the slain: go ye forth. And they went forth, and slew in the city.

9:8    他們擊殺的時候，我被留下，我就俯伏在地，說，哎。主耶和華阿，你將忿怒傾在耶路撒冷，豈要將以色列所剩下的人都滅絕嗎。
And it came to pass, while they were slaying them, and I was left, that I fell upon my face, and cried, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou destroy all the residue of Israel in thy pouring out of thy fury upon Jerusalem?

9:9    他對我說，以色列家和猶大家的罪孽極其重大。遍地有流血的事，滿城有冤屈，因為他們說，耶和華已經離棄這地，他看不見我們。
Then said he unto me, The iniquity of the house of Israel and Judah is exceeding great, and the land is full of blood, and the city full of perverseness: for they say, The LORD hath forsaken the earth, and the LORD seeth not.

9:10    故此，我眼必不顧惜，也不可憐他們，要照他們所行的報應在他們頭上。
And as for me also, mine eye shall not spare, neither will I have pity, but I will recompense their way upon their head.

9:11    那穿細麻衣，腰間帶著墨盒子的人將這事回覆說，我已經照你所吩咐的行了。
And, behold, the man clothed with linen, which had the inkhorn by his side, reported the matter, saying, I have done as thou hast commanded me.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


10:1    我觀看，見基路伯頭上的穹蒼之中，顯出藍寶石的形狀，彷佛寶座的形像。
Then I looked, and, behold, in the firmament that was above the head of the cherubims there appeared over them as it were a sapphire stone, as the appearance of the likeness of a throne.

10:2    主對那穿細麻衣的人說，你進去，在旋轉的輪內基路伯以下，從基路伯中間將火炭取滿兩手，撒在城上。我就見他進去。
And he spake unto the man clothed with linen, and said, Go in between the wheels, even under the cherub, and fill thine hand with coals of fire from between the cherubims, and scatter them over the city. And he went in in my sight.

10:3    那人進去的時候，基路伯站在殿的右邊，雲彩充滿了內院。
Now the cherubims stood on the right side of the house, when the man went in; and the cloud filled the inner court.

10:4    耶和華的榮耀從基路伯那裡上升，停在門檻以上。殿內滿了雲彩，院宇也被耶和華榮耀的光輝充滿。
Then the glory of the LORD went up from the cherub, and stood over the threshold of the house; and the house was filled with the cloud, and the court was full of the brightness of the LORD's glory.

10:5    基路伯翅膀的響聲聽到外院，好像全能神說話的聲音。
And the sound of the cherubims' wings was heard even to the outer court, as the voice of the Almighty God when he speaketh.

10:6    他吩咐那穿細麻衣的人說，要從旋轉的輪內基路伯中間取火。那人就進去站在一個輪子旁邊。
And it came to pass, that when he had commanded the man clothed with linen, saying, Take fire from between the wheels, from between the cherubims; then he went in, and stood beside the wheels.

10:7    有一個基路伯從基路伯中伸手到基路伯中間的火那裡，取些放在那穿細麻衣的人兩手中，那人就拿出去了。
And one cherub stretched forth his hand from between the cherubims unto the fire that was between the cherubims, and took thereof, and put it into the hands of him that was clothed with linen: who took it, and went out.

10:8    在基路伯翅膀之下，顯出有人手的樣式。
And there appeared in the cherubims the form of a man's hand under their wings.

10:9    我又觀看，見基路伯旁邊有四個輪子。這基路伯旁有一個輪子，那基路伯旁有一個輪子，每基路伯都是如此。輪子的顏色（原文作形狀）彷佛水蒼玉。
And when I looked, behold the four wheels by the cherubims, one wheel by one cherub, and another wheel by another cherub: and the appearance of the wheels was as the colour of a beryl stone.

10:10    至於四輪的形狀，都是一個樣式，彷佛輪中套輪。
And as for their appearances, they four had one likeness, as if a wheel had been in the midst of a wheel.

10:11    輪行走的時候，向四方都能直行，並不掉轉。頭向何方，他們也隨向何方，行走的時候並不掉轉。
When they went, they went upon their four sides; they turned not as they went, but to the place whither the head looked they followed it; they turned not as they went.

10:12    他們全身，連揹帶手和翅膀，並輪周圍都滿了眼睛。這四個基路伯的輪子都是如此。
And their whole body, and their backs, and their hands, and their wings, and the wheels, were full of eyes round about, even the wheels that they four had.

10:13    至於這些輪子，我耳中聽見說是旋轉的。
As for the wheels, it was cried unto them in my hearing, O wheel.

10:14    基路伯各有四臉，第一是基路伯的臉，第二是人的臉，第三是獅子的臉，第四是鷹的臉。
And every one had four faces: the first face was the face of a cherub, and the second face was the face of a man, and the third the face of a lion, and the fourth the face of an eagle.

10:15    基路伯升上去了。這是我在迦巴魯河邊所見的活物。
And the cherubims were lifted up. This is the living creature that I saw by the river of Chebar.

10:16    基路伯行走，輪也在旁邊行走。基路伯展開翅膀，離地上升，輪也不轉離他們旁邊。
And when the cherubims went, the wheels went by them: and when the cherubims lifted up their wings to mount up from the earth, the same wheels also turned not from beside them.

10:17    那些站住，這些也站住。那些上升，這些也一同上升，因為活物的靈在輪中。
When they stood, these stood; and when they were lifted up, these lifted up themselves also: for the spirit of the living creature was in them.

10:18    耶和華的榮耀從殿的門檻那裡出去，停在基路伯以上。
Then the glory of the LORD departed from off the threshold of the house, and stood over the cherubims.

10:19    基路伯出去的時候，就展開翅膀，在我眼前離地上升。輪也在他們的旁邊，都停在耶和華殿的東門口。在他們以上有以色列神的榮耀。
And the cherubims lifted up their wings, and mounted up from the earth in my sight: when they went out, the wheels also were beside them, and every one stood at the door of the east gate of the LORD's house; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

10:20    這是我在迦巴魯河邊所見，以色列神榮耀以下的活物，我就知道他們是基路伯。
This is the living creature that I saw under the God of Israel by the river of Chebar; and I knew that they were the cherubims.

10:21    各有四個臉面，四個翅膀，翅膀以下有人手的樣式。
Every one had four faces apiece, and every one four wings; and the likeness of the hands of a man was under their wings.

10:22    至於他們臉的模樣，並身體的形像，是我從前在迦巴魯河邊所看見的。他們俱各直往前行。
And the likeness of their faces was the same faces which I saw by the river of Chebar, their appearances and themselves: they went every one straight forward.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


11:1    靈將我舉起，帶到耶和華殿向東的東門。誰知，在門口有二十五個人，我見其中有民間的首領押朔的兒子雅撒尼亞和比拿雅的兒子毗拉提。
Moreover the spirit lifted me up, and brought me unto the east gate of the LORD's house, which looketh eastward: and behold at the door of the gate five and twenty men; among whom I saw Jaazaniah the son of Azur, and Pelatiah the son of Benaiah, princes of the people.

11:2    耶和華對我說，人子阿，這就是圖謀罪孽的人，在這城中給人設惡謀。
Then said he unto me, Son of man, these are the men that devise mischief, and give wicked counsel in this city:

11:3    他們說，蓋房屋的時候尚未臨近。這城是鍋，我們是肉。
Which say, It is not near; let us build houses: this city is the caldron, and we be the flesh.

11:4    人子阿，因此你當說預言，說預言攻擊他們。
Therefore prophesy against them, prophesy, O son of man.

11:5    耶和華的靈降在我身上，對我說，你當說，耶和華如此說，以色列家阿，你們口中所說的，心裡所想的，我都知道。
And the Spirit of the LORD fell upon me, and said unto me, Speak; Thus saith the LORD; Thus have ye said, O house of Israel: for I know the things that come into your mind, every one of them.

11:6    你們在這城中殺人增多，使被殺的人充滿街道。
Ye have multiplied your slain in this city, and ye have filled the streets thereof with the slain.

11:7    所以主耶和華如此說，你們殺在城中的人就是肉，這城就是鍋。你們卻要從其中被帶出去。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Your slain whom ye have laid in the midst of it, they are the flesh, and this city is the caldron: but I will bring you forth out of the midst of it.

11:8    你們怕刀劍，我必使刀劍臨到你們。這是主耶和華說的。
Ye have feared the sword; and I will bring a sword upon you, saith the Lord GOD.

11:9    我必從這城中帶出你們去，交在外邦人的手中，且要在你們中間施行審判。
And I will bring you out of the midst thereof, and deliver you into the hands of strangers, and will execute judgments among you.

11:10    你們必倒在刀下。我必在以色列的境界審判你們，你們就知道我是耶和華。
Ye shall fall by the sword; I will judge you in the border of Israel; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

11:11    這城必不作你們的鍋，你們也不作其中的肉。我必在以色列的境界審判你們，
This city shall not be your caldron, neither shall ye be the flesh in the midst thereof; but I will judge you in the border of Israel:

11:12    你們就知道我是耶和華。因為你們沒有遵行我的律例，也沒有順從我的典章，卻隨從你們四圍列國的惡規。
And ye shall know that I am the LORD: for ye have not walked in my statutes, neither executed my judgments, but have done after the manners of the heathen that are round about you.

11:13    我正說預言的時候，比拿雅的兒子毗拉提死了。於是我俯伏在地，大聲呼叫說，哎。主耶和華阿，你要將以色列剩下的人滅絕淨盡嗎。
And it came to pass, when I prophesied, that Pelatiah the son of Benaiah died. Then fell I down upon my face, and cried with a loud voice, and said, Ah Lord GOD! wilt thou make a full end of the remnant of Israel?

11:14    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

11:15    人子阿，耶路撒冷的居民對你的弟兄，你的本族，你的親屬，以色列全家，就是對大眾說，你們遠離耶和華吧。這地是賜給我們為業的。
Son of man, thy brethren, even thy brethren, the men of thy kindred, and all the house of Israel wholly, are they unto whom the inhabitants of Jerusalem have said, Get you far from the LORD: unto us is this land given in possession.

11:16    所以你當說，耶和華如此說，我雖將以色列全家遠遠遷移到列國中，將他們分散在列邦內，我還要在他們所到的列邦，暫作他們的聖所。
Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Although I have cast them far off among the heathen, and although I have scattered them among the countries, yet will I be to them as a little sanctuary in the countries where they shall come.

11:17    你當說，主耶和華如此說，我必從萬民中招聚你們，從分散的列國內聚集你們，又要將以色列地賜給你們。
Therefore say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even gather you from the people, and assemble you out of the countries where ye have been scattered, and I will give you the land of Israel.

11:18    他們必到那裡，也必從其中除掉一切可憎可厭的物。
And they shall come thither, and they shall take away all the detestable things thereof and all the abominations thereof from thence.

11:19    我要使他們有合一的心，也要將新靈放在他們裡面，又從他們肉體中除掉石心，賜給他們肉心，
And I will give them one heart, and I will put a new spirit within you; and I will take the stony heart out of their flesh, and will give them an heart of flesh:

11:20    使他們順從我的律例，謹守遵行我的典章。他們要作我的子民，我要作他們的神。
That they may walk in my statutes, and keep mine ordinances, and do them: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God.

11:21    至於那些心中隨從可憎可厭之物的，我必照他們所行的報應在他們頭上。這是主耶和華說的。
But as for them whose heart walketh after the heart of their detestable things and their abominations, I will recompense their way upon their own heads, saith the Lord GOD.

11:22    於是，基路伯展開翅膀，輪子都在他們旁邊。在他們以上有以色列神的榮耀。
Then did the cherubims lift up their wings, and the wheels beside them; and the glory of the God of Israel was over them above.

11:23    耶和華的榮耀從城中上升，停在城東的那座山上。
And the glory of the LORD went up from the midst of the city, and stood upon the mountain which is on the east side of the city.

11:24    靈將我舉起，在異象中藉著神的靈將我帶進迦勒底地，到被擄的人那裡。我所見的異象就離我上升去了。
Afterwards the spirit took me up, and brought me in a vision by the Spirit of God into Chaldea, to them of the captivity. So the vision that I had seen went up from me.



11:25    我便將耶和華所指示我的一切事都說給被擄的人聽。
Then I spake unto them of the captivity all the things that the LORD had shewed me.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


12:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD also came unto me, saying,



12:2    人子阿，你住在悖逆的家中。他們有眼睛看不見，有耳朵聽不見，因為他們是悖逆之家。
Son of man, thou dwellest in the midst of a rebellious house, which have eyes to see, and see not; they have ears to hear, and hear not: for they are a rebellious house.

12:3    所以人子阿，你要預備擄去使用的物件，在白日當他們眼前從你所住的地方移到別處去。他們雖是悖逆之家，或者可以揣摩思想。
Therefore, thou son of man, prepare thee stuff for removing, and remove by day in their sight; and thou shalt remove from thy place to another place in their sight: it may be they will consider, though they be a rebellious house.

12:4    你要在白日當他們眼前帶出你的物件去，好像預備擄去使用的物件。到了晚上，你要在他們眼前親自出去，像被擄的人出去一樣。
Then shalt thou bring forth thy stuff by day in their sight, as stuff for removing: and thou shalt go forth at even in their sight, as they that go forth into captivity.

12:5    你要在他們眼前挖通了牆，從其中將物件帶出去。
Dig thou through the wall in their sight, and carry out thereby.

12:6    到天黑時，你要當他們眼前搭在肩頭上帶出去，並要矇住臉看不見地，因為我立你作以色列家的預兆。
In their sight shalt thou bear it upon thy shoulders, and carry it forth in the twilight: thou shalt cover thy face, that thou see not the ground: for I have set thee for a sign unto the house of Israel.

12:7    我就照著所吩咐的去行，白日帶出我的物件，好像預備擄去使用的物件。到了晚上，我用手挖通了牆。天黑的時候，就當他們眼前搭在肩頭上帶出去。
And I did so as I was commanded: I brought forth my stuff by day, as stuff for captivity, and in the even I digged through the wall with mine hand; I brought it forth in the twilight, and I bare it upon my shoulder in their sight.

12:8    次日早晨，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And in the morning came the word of the LORD unto me, saying,

12:9    人子阿，以色列家，就是那悖逆之家，豈不是問你說，你作什麼呢。
Son of man, hath not the house of Israel, the rebellious house, said unto thee, What doest thou?

12:10    你要對他們說，主耶和華如此說，這是關乎耶路撒冷的君王和他周圍以色列全家的預表（原文作擔子）。
Say thou unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; This burden concerneth the prince in Jerusalem, and all the house of Israel that are among them.

12:11    你要說，我作你們的預兆，我怎樣行，他們所遭遇的也必怎樣，他們必被擄去。
Say, I am your sign: like as I have done, so shall it be done unto them: they shall remove and go into captivity.

12:12    他們中間的君王也必在天黑的時候將物件搭在肩頭上帶出去。他們要挖通了牆，從其中帶出去。他必矇住臉，眼看不見地。
And the prince that is among them shall bear upon his shoulder in the twilight, and shall go forth: they shall dig through the wall to carry out thereby: he shall cover his face, that he see not the ground with his eyes.

12:13    我必將我的網撒在他身上，他必在我的網羅中纏住。我必帶他到迦勒底人之地的巴比倫。他雖死在那裡，卻看不見那地。
My net also will I spread upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare: and I will bring him to Babylon to the land of the Chaldeans; yet shall he not see it, though he shall die there.

12:14    周圍一切幫助他的和他所有的軍隊，我必分散四方（方原文作風），也要拔刀追趕他們。
And I will scatter toward every wind all that are about him to help him, and all his bands; and I will draw out the sword after them.

12:15    我將他們四散在列國，分散在列邦的時候，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall scatter them among the nations, and disperse them in the countries.

12:16    我卻要留下他們幾個人得免刀劍，饑荒，瘟疫，使他們在所到的各國中述說他們一切可憎的事，人就知道我是耶和華。
But I will leave a few men of them from the sword, from the famine, and from the pestilence; that they may declare all their abominations among the heathen whither they come; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

12:17    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

12:18    人子阿，你吃飯必膽戰，喝水必惶惶憂慮。
Son of man, eat thy bread with quaking, and drink thy water with trembling and with carefulness;

12:19    你要對這地的百姓說，主耶和華論耶路撒冷和以色列地的居民如此說，他們吃飯必憂慮，喝水必驚惶。因其中居住的眾人所行強暴的事，這地必然荒廢，一無所存。
And say unto the people of the land, Thus saith the Lord GOD of the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and of the land of Israel; They shall eat their bread with carefulness, and drink their water with astonishment, that her land may be desolate from all that is therein, because of the violence of all them that dwell therein.

12:20    有居民的城邑必變為荒場，地也必變為荒廢。你們就知道我是耶和華。
And the cities that are inhabited shall be laid waste, and the land shall be desolate; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

12:21    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

12:22    人子阿，在你們以色列地怎嗎有這俗語，說日子遲延，一切異象都落了空呢。
Son of man, what is that proverb that ye have in the land of Israel, saying, The days are prolonged, and every vision faileth?

12:23    你要告訴他們說，主耶和華如此說，我必使這俗語止息，以色列中不再用這俗語。你卻要對他們說，日子臨近，一切的異象必都應驗。
Tell them therefore, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will make this proverb to cease, and they shall no more use it as a proverb in Israel; but say unto them, The days are at hand, and the effect of every vision.

12:24    從此，在以色列家中必不再有虛假的異象和奉承的占卜。
For there shall be no more any vain vision nor flattering divination within the house of Israel.

12:25    我耶和華說話，所說的必定成就，不再耽延。你們這悖逆之家，我所說的話必趁你們在世的日子成就。這是主耶和華說的。
For I am the LORD: I will speak, and the word that I shall speak shall come to pass; it shall be no more prolonged: for in your days, O rebellious house, will I say the word, and will perform it, saith the Lord GOD.

12:26    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came to me, saying,

12:27    人子阿，以色列家的人說，他所見的異象是關乎後來許多的日子，所說的預言是指著極遠的時候。
Son of man, behold, they of the house of Israel say, The vision that he seeth is for many days to come, and he prophesieth of the times that are far off.

12:28    所以你要對他們說，主耶和華如此說，我的話沒有一句再耽延的，我所說的必定成就。這是主耶和華說的。
Therefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; There shall none of my words be prolonged any more, but the word which I have spoken shall be done, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


13:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

13:2    人子阿，你要說預言攻擊以色列中說預言的先知，對那些本己心發預言的說，你們當聽耶和華的話。
Son of man, prophesy against the prophets of Israel that prophesy, and say thou unto them that prophesy out of their own hearts, Hear ye the word of the LORD;

13:3    主耶和華如此說，愚頑的先知有禍了，他們隨從自己的心意，卻一無所見。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe unto the foolish prophets, that follow their own spirit, and have seen nothing!

13:4    以色列阿，你的先知好像荒場中的狐狸，
O Israel, thy prophets are like the foxes in the deserts.

13:5    沒有上去堵擋破口，也沒有為以色列家重修牆垣，使他們當耶和華的日子在陣上站立得住。
Ye have not gone up into the gaps, neither made up the hedge for the house of Israel to stand in the battle in the day of the LORD.

13:6    這些人所見的是虛假，是謊詐的占卜。他們說是耶和華說的，其實耶和華並沒有差遣他們，他們倒使人指望那話必然立定。
They have seen vanity and lying divination, saying, The LORD saith: and the LORD hath not sent them: and they have made others to hope that they would confirm the word.

13:7    你們豈不是見了虛假的異象嗎。豈不是說了謊詐的占卜嗎。你們說，這是耶和華說的，其實我沒有說。
Have ye not seen a vain vision, and have ye not spoken a lying divination, whereas ye say, The LORD saith it; albeit I have not spoken?

13:8    所以主耶和華如此說，因你們說的是虛假，見的是謊詐，我就與你們反對。這是主耶和華說的。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have spoken vanity, and seen lies, therefore, behold, I am against you, saith the Lord GOD.

13:9    我的手必攻擊那見虛假異象，用謊詐占卜的先知，他們必不列在我百姓的會中，不錄在以色列家的冊上，也不進入以色列地。你們就知道我是主耶和華。
And mine hand shall be upon the prophets that see vanity, and that divine lies: they shall not be in the assembly of my people, neither shall they be written in the writing of the house of Israel, neither shall they enter into the land of Israel; and ye shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

13:10    因為他們誘惑我的百姓，說，平安。其實沒有平安，就像有人立起牆壁，他們倒用未泡透的灰抹上。
Because, even because they have seduced my people, saying, Peace; and there was no peace; and one built up a wall, and, lo, others daubed it with untempered morter:

13:11    所以你要對那些抹上未泡透灰的人說，牆要倒塌，必有暴雨漫過。大冰雹阿，你們要降下，狂風也要吹裂這牆。
Say unto them which daub it with untempered morter, that it shall fall: there shall be an overflowing shower; and ye, O great hailstones, shall fall; and a stormy wind shall rend it.

13:12    這牆倒塌之後，人豈不問你們說，你們抹上未泡透的灰在哪裡呢。
Lo, when the wall is fallen, shall it not be said unto you, Where is the daubing wherewith ye have daubed it?

13:13    所以主耶和華如此說，我要發怒，使狂風吹裂這牆，在怒中使暴雨漫過，又發怒降下大冰雹，毀滅這牆。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even rend it with a stormy wind in my fury; and there shall be an overflowing shower in mine anger, and great hailstones in my fury to consume it.

13:14    我要這樣拆毀你們那未泡透灰所抹的牆，拆平到地，以致根基露出，牆必倒塌，你們也必在其中滅亡。你們就知道我是耶和華。
So will I break down the wall that ye have daubed with untempered morter, and bring it down to the ground, so that the foundation thereof shall be discovered, and it shall fall, and ye shall be consumed in the midst thereof: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

13:15    我要這樣向牆和用未泡透灰抹牆的人成就我怒中所定的，並要對你們說，牆和抹牆的人都沒有了。
Thus will I accomplish my wrath upon the wall, and upon them that have daubed it with untempered morter, and will say unto you, The wall is no more, neither they that daubed it;

13:16    這抹牆的就是以色列的先知，他們指著耶路撒冷說預言，為這城見了平安的異象，其實沒有平安。這是主耶和華說的。
To wit, the prophets of Israel which prophesy concerning Jerusalem, and which see visions of peace for her, and there is no peace, saith the Lord GOD.

13:17    人子阿，你要面向本民中，從己心發預言的女子說預言，攻擊她們，
Likewise, thou son of man, set thy face against the daughters of thy people, which prophesy out of their own heart; and prophesy thou against them,

13:18    說主耶和華如此說，這些婦女有禍了。她們為眾人的膀臂縫靠枕，給高矮之人作下垂的頭巾，為要獵取人的性命。難道你們要獵取我百姓的性命，為利己將人救活嗎。
And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the women that sew pillows to all armholes, and make kerchiefs upon the head of every stature to hunt souls! Will ye hunt the souls of my people, and will ye save the souls alive that come unto you?

13:19    你們為兩把大麥，為幾塊餅，在我民中褻瀆我，對肯聽謊言的民說謊，殺死不該死的人，救活不該活的人。
And will ye pollute me among my people for handfuls of barley and for pieces of bread, to slay the souls that should not die, and to save the souls alive that should not live, by your lying to my people that hear your lies?

13:20    所以主耶和華如此說，看哪，我與你們的靠枕反對，就是你們用以獵取人，使人的性命如鳥飛的。我要將靠枕從你們的膀臂上扯去，釋放你們獵取如鳥飛的人。
Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against your pillows, wherewith ye there hunt the souls to make them fly, and I will tear them from your arms, and will let the souls go, even the souls that ye hunt to make them fly.

13:21    我也必撕裂你們下垂的頭巾，救我百姓脫離你們的手，不再被獵取，落在你們手中。你們就知道我是耶和華。
Your kerchiefs also will I tear, and deliver my people out of your hand, and they shall be no more in your hand to be hunted; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

13:22    我不使義人傷心，你們卻以謊話使他傷心，又堅固惡人的手，使他不回頭離開惡道得以救活。
Because with lies ye have made the heart of the righteous sad, whom I have not made sad; and strengthened the hands of the wicked, that he should not return from his wicked way, by promising him life:

13:23    你們就不再見虛假的異象，也不再行占卜的事。我必救我的百姓脫離你們的手。你們就知道我是耶和華。
Therefore ye shall see no more vanity, nor divine divinations: for I will deliver my people out of your hand: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


14:1    有幾個以色列長老到我這裡來，坐在我面前。
Then came certain of the elders of Israel unto me, and sat before me.

14:2    耶和華的話就臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

14:3    人子阿，這些人已將他們的假神接到心裡，把陷於罪的絆腳石放在面前，我豈能絲毫被他們求問嗎。
Son of man, these men have set up their idols in their heart, and put the stumblingblock of their iniquity before their face: should I be enquired of at all by them?

14:4    所以你要告訴他們，主耶和華如此說，以色列家的人中，凡將他的假神接到心裡，把陷於罪的絆腳石放在面前，又就了先知來的，我耶和華在他所求的事上，必按他眾多的假神回答他，
Therefore speak unto them, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Every man of the house of Israel that setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to the prophet; I the LORD will answer him that cometh according to the multitude of his idols;

14:5    好在以色列家的心事上捉住他們，因為他們都藉著假神與我生疏。
That I may take the house of Israel in their own heart, because they are all estranged from me through their idols.

14:6    所以你要告訴以色列家說，主耶和華如此說，回頭吧。離開你們的偶像，轉臉莫從你們一切可憎的事。
Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Repent, and turn yourselves from your idols; and turn away your faces from all your abominations.

14:7    因為以色列家的人，或在以色列中寄居的外人，凡與我隔絕，將他的假神接到心裡，把陷於罪的絆腳石放在面前，又就了先知來要為自己的事求問我的，我耶和華必親自回答他。
For every one of the house of Israel, or of the stranger that sojourneth in Israel, which separateth himself from me, and setteth up his idols in his heart, and putteth the stumblingblock of his iniquity before his face, and cometh to a prophet to enquire of him concerning me; I the LORD will answer him by myself:

14:8    我必向那人變臉，使他作了警戒，笑談，令人驚駭，並且我要將他從我民中剪除。你們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will set my face against that man, and will make him a sign and a proverb, and I will cut him off from the midst of my people; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

14:9    先知若被迷惑說一句預言，是我耶和華任那先知受迷惑，我也必向他伸手，將他從我民以色列中除滅。
And if the prophet be deceived when he hath spoken a thing, I the LORD have deceived that prophet, and I will stretch out my hand upon him, and will destroy him from the midst of my people Israel.

14:10    他們必擔當自己的罪孽。先知的罪孽和求問之人的罪孽都是一樣，
And they shall bear the punishment of their iniquity: the punishment of the prophet shall be even as the punishment of him that seeketh unto him;

14:11    好使以色列家不再走迷離開我，不再因各樣的罪過玷汙自己，只要作我的子民，我作他們的神。這是主耶和華說的。
That the house of Israel may go no more astray from me, neither be polluted any more with all their transgressions; but that they may be my people, and I may be their God, saith the Lord GOD.

14:12    耶和華的話臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again to me, saying,

14:13    人子阿，若有一國犯罪干犯我，我也向他伸手摺斷他們的杖，就是斷絕他們的糧，使饑荒臨到那地，將人與牲畜從其中剪除。
Son of man, when the land sinneth against me by trespassing grievously, then will I stretch out mine hand upon it, and will break the staff of the bread thereof, and will send famine upon it, and will cut off man and beast from it:

14:14    其中雖有挪亞，但以理，約伯這三人，他們只能因他們的義救自己的性命。這是主耶和華說的。
Though these three men, Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, they should deliver but their own souls by their righteousness, saith the Lord GOD.

14:15    我若使惡獸經過糟踐那地，使地荒涼，以致因這些獸，人都不得經過。
If I cause noisome beasts to pass through the land, and they spoil it, so that it be desolate, that no man may pass through because of the beasts:

14:16    雖有這三人在其中，主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，他們連兒帶女都不能得救，只能自己得救，那地仍然荒涼。
Though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters; they only shall be delivered, but the land shall be desolate.



14:17    或者我使刀劍臨到那地，說，刀劍哪，要經過那地，以致我將人與牲畜從其中剪除。
Or if I bring a sword upon that land, and say, Sword, go through the land; so that I cut off man and beast from it:

14:18    雖有這三人在其中，主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，他們連兒帶女都不能得救，只能自己得救。
Though these three men were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither sons nor daughters, but they only shall be delivered themselves.

14:19    或者我叫瘟疫流行那地，使我滅命（原文作帶血）的忿怒傾在其上，好將人與牲畜從其中剪除。
Or if I send a pestilence into that land, and pour out my fury upon it in blood, to cut off from it man and beast:

14:20    雖有挪亞，但以理，約伯在其中，主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，他們連兒帶女都不能救，只能因他們的義救自己的性命。
Though Noah, Daniel, and Job, were in it, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, they shall deliver neither son nor daughter; they shall but deliver their own souls by their righteousness.

14:21    主耶和華如此說，我將這四樣大災就是刀劍，饑荒，惡獸，瘟疫降在耶路撒冷，將人與牲畜從其中剪除，豈不更重嗎。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; How much more when I send my four sore judgments upon Jerusalem, the sword, and the famine, and the noisome beast, and the pestilence, to cut off from it man and beast?

14:22    然而其中必有剩下的人，他們連兒帶女必帶到你們這裡來，你們看見他們所行所為的，要因我降給耶路撒冷的一切災禍，便得了安慰。
Yet, behold, therein shall be left a remnant that shall be brought forth, both sons and daughters: behold, they shall come forth unto you, and ye shall see their way and their doings: and ye shall be comforted concerning the evil that I have brought upon Jerusalem, even concerning all that I have brought upon it.

14:23    你們看見他們所行所為的，得了安慰，就知道我在耶路撒冷中所行的並非無故。這是主耶和華說的。
And they shall comfort you, when ye see their ways and their doings: and ye shall know that I have not done without cause all that I have done in it, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 15 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


15:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

15:2    人子阿，葡萄樹比別樣樹有什麼強處。葡萄枝比眾樹枝有什麼好處。
Son of man, What is the vine tree more than any tree, or than a branch which is among the trees of the forest?

15:3    其上可以取木料作什麼工用，可以取來作釘子掛什麼器皿嗎。
Shall wood be taken thereof to do any work? or will men take a pin of it to hang any vessel thereon?

15:4    看哪，已經拋在火中當作柴燒，火既燒了兩頭，中間也被燒了，還有益於工用嗎。
Behold, it is cast into the fire for fuel; the fire devoureth both the ends of it, and the midst of it is burned. Is it meet for any work?

15:5    完全的時候尚且不合乎什麼工用，何況被火燒壞，還能合乎什麼工用嗎。
Behold, when it was whole, it was meet for no work: how much less shall it be meet yet for any work, when the fire hath devoured it, and it is burned?

15:6    所以，主耶和華如此說，眾樹以內的葡萄樹，我怎樣使它在火中當柴，也必照樣待耶路撒冷的居民。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; As the vine tree among the trees of the forest, which I have given to the fire for fuel, so will I give the inhabitants of Jerusalem.

15:7    我必向他們變臉。他們雖從火中出來，火卻要燒滅他們。我向他們變臉的時候，你們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will set my face against them; they shall go out from one fire, and another fire shall devour them; and ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I set my face against them.

15:8    我必使地土荒涼，因為他們行事幹犯我。這是主耶和華說的。
And I will make the land desolate, because they have committed a trespass, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 16 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


16:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

16:2    人子阿，你要使耶路撒冷知道她那些可憎的事，
Son of man, cause Jerusalem to know her abominations,

16:3    說主耶和華對耶路撒冷如此說，你根本，你出世，是在迦南地。你父親是亞摩利人，你母親是赫人。
And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD unto Jerusalem; Thy birth and thy nativity is of the land of Canaan; thy father was an Amorite, and thy mother an Hittite.

16:4    論到你出世的景況，在你初生的日子沒有為你斷臍帶，也沒有用水洗你，使你潔淨，絲毫沒有撒鹽在你身上，也沒有用布裹你。
And as for thy nativity, in the day thou wast born thy navel was not cut, neither wast thou washed in water to supple thee; thou wast not salted at all, nor swaddled at all.

16:5    誰的眼也不可憐你，為你作一件這樣的事憐恤你。但你初生的日子扔在田野，是因你被厭惡。
None eye pitied thee, to do any of these unto thee, to have compassion upon thee; but thou wast cast out in the open field, to the lothing of thy person, in the day that thou wast born.

16:6    我從你旁邊經過，見你滾在血中，就對你說，你雖在血中，仍可存活。你雖在血中，仍可存活。
And when I passed by thee, and saw thee polluted in thine own blood, I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live; yea, I said unto thee when thou wast in thy blood, Live.

16:7    我使你生長好像田間所長的，你就漸漸長大，以致極其俊美，兩乳成形，頭髮長成，你卻仍然赤身露體。
I have caused thee to multiply as the bud of the field, and thou hast increased and waxen great, and thou art come to excellent ornaments: thy breasts are fashioned, and thine hair is grown, whereas thou wast naked and bare.

16:8    我從你旁邊經過，看見你的時候正動愛情，便用衣襟搭在你身上，遮蓋你的赤體。又向你起誓，與你結盟，你就歸於我。這是主耶和華說的。
Now when I passed by thee, and looked upon thee, behold, thy time was the time of love; and I spread my skirt over thee, and covered thy nakedness: yea, I sware unto thee, and entered into a covenant with thee, saith the Lord GOD, and thou becamest mine.

16:9    那時我用水洗你，洗淨你身上的血，又用油抹你。
Then washed I thee with water; yea, I throughly washed away thy blood from thee, and I anointed thee with oil.

16:10    我也使你身穿繡花衣服，腳穿海狗皮鞋，並用細麻布給你束腰，用絲綢為衣披在你身上，
I clothed thee also with broidered work, and shod thee with badgers' skin, and I girded thee about with fine linen, and I covered thee with silk.

16:11    又用妝飾打扮你，將鐲子戴在你手上，將金鍊戴在你項上。
I decked thee also with ornaments, and I put bracelets upon thy hands, and a chain on thy neck.

16:12    我也將環子戴在你鼻子上，將耳環戴在你耳朵上，將華冠戴在你頭上。
And I put a jewel on thy forehead, and earrings in thine ears, and a beautiful crown upon thine head.

16:13    這樣，你就有金銀的妝飾，穿的是細麻衣和絲綢，並繡花衣。吃的是細面，蜂蜜，並油。你也極其美貌，發達到王后的尊榮。
Thus wast thou decked with gold and silver; and thy raiment was of fine linen, and silk, and broidered work; thou didst eat fine flour, and honey, and oil: and thou wast exceeding beautiful, and thou didst prosper into a kingdom.

16:14    你美貌的名聲傳在列邦中，你十分美貌，是因我加在你身上的威榮。這是主耶和華說的。
And thy renown went forth among the heathen for thy beauty: for it was perfect through my comeliness, which I had put upon thee, saith the Lord GOD.

16:15    只是你仗著自己的美貌，又因你的名聲就行邪淫。你縱情淫亂，使過路的任意而行。
But thou didst trust in thine own beauty, and playedst the harlot because of thy renown, and pouredst out thy fornications on every one that passed by; his it was.

16:16    你用衣服為自己在高處結綵，在其上行邪淫。這樣的事將來必沒有，也必不再行了。
And of thy garments thou didst take, and deckedst thy high places with divers colours, and playedst the harlot thereupon: the like things shall not come, neither shall it be so.

16:17    你又將我所給你那華美的金銀，寶器為自己製造人像，與他行邪淫。
Thou hast also taken thy fair jewels of my gold and of my silver, which I had given thee, and madest to thyself images of men, and didst commit whoredom with them,

16:18    又用你的繡花衣服給他披上，並將我的膏油和香料擺在他跟前。
And tookest thy broidered garments, and coveredst them: and thou hast set mine oil and mine incense before them.

16:19    又將我賜給你的食物，就是我賜給你吃的細面，油，和蜂蜜，都擺在他跟前為馨香的供物。這是主耶和華說的。
My meat also which I gave thee, fine flour, and oil, and honey, wherewith I fed thee, thou hast even set it before them for a sweet savour: and thus it was, saith the Lord GOD.

16:20    並且你將給我所生的兒女焚獻給他。
Moreover thou hast taken thy sons and thy daughters, whom thou hast borne unto me, and these hast thou sacrificed unto them to be devoured. Is this of thy whoredoms a small matter,

16:21    你行淫亂豈是小事，竟將我的兒女殺了，使他們經火歸與他嗎。
That thou hast slain my children, and delivered them to cause them to pass through the fire for them?



16:22    你行這一切可憎和淫亂的事，並未追念你幼年赤身露體滾在血中的日子。
And in all thine abominations and thy whoredoms thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, when thou wast naked and bare, and wast polluted in thy blood.

16:23    你行這一切惡事之後（主耶和華說，你有禍了。有禍了。）
And it came to pass after all thy wickedness, (woe, woe unto thee! saith the LORD GOD;)

16:24    又為自己建造圓頂花樓，在各街上作了高臺。
That thou hast also built unto thee an eminent place, and hast made thee an high place in every street.

16:25    你在一切市口上建造高臺，使你的美貌變為可憎的，又與一切過路的多行淫亂。
Thou hast built thy high place at every head of the way, and hast made thy beauty to be abhorred, and hast opened thy feet to every one that passed by, and multiplied thy whoredoms.

16:26    你也和你鄰邦放縱情慾的埃及人行淫，加增你的淫亂，惹我發怒。
Thou hast also committed fornication with the Egyptians thy neighbours, great of flesh; and hast increased thy whoredoms, to provoke me to anger.

16:27    因此我伸手攻擊你，減少你應用的糧食，又將你交給恨你的非利士眾女（眾女是城邑的意思本章下同），使她們任意待你。她們見你的淫行，為你羞恥。
Behold, therefore I have stretched out my hand over thee, and have diminished thine ordinary food, and delivered thee unto the will of them that hate thee, the daughters of the Philistines, which are ashamed of thy lewd way.

16:28    你因貪色無厭，又與亞述人行淫，與他們行淫之後，仍不滿意，
Thou hast played the whore also with the Assyrians, because thou wast unsatiable; yea, thou hast played the harlot with them, and yet couldest not be satisfied.

16:29    並且多行淫亂，直到那貿易之地，就是迦勒底，你仍不滿意。
Thou hast moreover multiplied thy fornication in the land of Canaan unto Chaldea; and yet thou wast not satisfied herewith.

16:30    主耶和華說，你行這一切事，都是不知羞恥妓女所行的，可見你的心是何等懦弱。
How weak is thine heart, saith the LORD GOD, seeing thou doest all these things, the work of an imperious whorish woman;

16:31    因你在一切市口上建造圓頂花樓，在各街上作了高臺，你卻藐視賞賜，不像妓女。
In that thou buildest thine eminent place in the head of every way, and makest thine high place in every street; and hast not been as an harlot, in that thou scornest hire;

16:32    哎。你這行淫的妻阿，寧肯接外人，不接丈夫。
But as a wife that committeth adultery, which taketh strangers instead of her husband!

16:33    凡妓女是得人贈送，你反倒贈送你所愛的人，賄賂他們從四圍來與你行淫。
They give gifts to all whores: but thou givest thy gifts to all thy lovers, and hirest them, that they may come unto thee on every side for thy whoredom.

16:34    你行淫與別的婦女相反，因為不是人從你行淫。你既贈送人，人並不贈送你。所以你與別的婦女相反。
And the contrary is in thee from other women in thy whoredoms, whereas none followeth thee to commit whoredoms: and in that thou givest a reward, and no reward is given unto thee, therefore thou art contrary.

16:35    你這妓女阿，要聽耶和華的話。
Wherefore, O harlot, hear the word of the LORD:

16:36    主耶和華如此說，因你的汙穢傾洩了，你與你所愛的行淫露出下體，又因你拜一切可憎的偶像，流兒女的血獻給他，
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thy filthiness was poured out, and thy nakedness discovered through thy whoredoms with thy lovers, and with all the idols of thy abominations, and by the blood of thy children, which thou didst give unto them;

16:37    我就要將你一切相歡相愛的和你一切所恨的都聚集來，從四圍攻擊你。又將你的下體露出，使他們看盡了。
Behold, therefore I will gather all thy lovers, with whom thou hast taken pleasure, and all them that thou hast loved, with all them that thou hast hated; I will even gather them round about against thee, and will discover thy nakedness unto them, that they may see all thy nakedness.

16:38    我也要審判你，好像官長審判淫婦和流人血的婦女一樣。我因忿怒忌恨，使流血的罪歸到你身上。
And I will judge thee, as women that break wedlock and shed blood are judged; and I will give thee blood in fury and jealousy.

16:39    我又要將你交在他們手中。他們必拆毀你的圓頂花樓，毀壞你的高臺，剝去你的衣服，奪取你的華美寶器，留下你赤身露體。
And I will also give thee into their hand, and they shall throw down thine eminent place, and shall break down thy high places: they shall strip thee also of thy clothes, and shall take thy fair jewels, and leave thee naked and bare.

16:40    他們也必帶多人來攻擊你，用石頭打死你，用刀劍刺透你，
They shall also bring up a company against thee, and they shall stone thee with stones, and thrust thee through with their swords.

16:41    用火焚燒你的房屋，在許多婦人眼前向你施行審判。我必使你不再行淫，也不再贈送與人。
And they shall burn thine houses with fire, and execute judgments upon thee in the sight of many women: and I will cause thee to cease from playing the harlot, and thou also shalt give no hire any more.

16:42    這樣，我就止息向你發的忿怒，我的忌恨也要離開你，我要安靜不再惱怒。
So will I make my fury toward thee to rest, and my jealousy shall depart from thee, and I will be quiet, and will be no more angry.

16:43    因你不追念你幼年的日子，在這一切的事上向我發烈怒，所以我必照你所行的報應在你頭上，你就不再貪淫，行那一切可憎的事。這是主耶和華說的。
Because thou hast not remembered the days of thy youth, but hast fretted me in all these things; behold, therefore I also will recompense thy way upon thine head, saith the Lord GOD: and thou shalt not commit this lewdness above all thine abominations.

16:44    凡說俗語的必用俗語攻擊你，說，母親怎樣，女兒也怎樣。
Behold, every one that useth proverbs shall use this proverb against thee, saying, As is the mother, so is her daughter.

16:45    你正是你母親的女兒，厭棄丈夫和兒女。你正是你姊妹的姊妹，厭棄丈夫和兒女。你母親是赫人，你父親是亞摩利人。
Thou art thy mother's daughter, that lotheth her husband and her children; and thou art the sister of thy sisters, which lothed their husbands and their children: your mother was an Hittite, and your father an Amorite.

16:46    你的姊姊是撒馬利亞，她和她的眾女住在你左邊。你的妹妹是所多瑪，她和她的眾女住在你右邊。
And thine elder sister is Samaria, she and her daughters that dwell at thy left hand: and thy younger sister, that dwelleth at thy right hand, is Sodom and her daughters.

16:47    你沒有效法她們的行為，也沒有照她們可憎的事去作，你以那為小事，你一切所行的倒比她們更壞。
Yet hast thou not walked after their ways, nor done after their abominations: but, as if that were a very little thing, thou wast corrupted more than they in all thy ways.

16:48    主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，你妹妹所多瑪與她的眾女尚未行你和你眾女所行的事。
As I live, saith the Lord GOD, Sodom thy sister hath not done, she nor her daughters, as thou hast done, thou and thy daughters.

16:49    看哪，你妹妹所多瑪的罪孽是這樣，她和她的眾女都心驕氣傲，糧食飽足，大享安逸，並沒有扶助困苦和窮乏人的手。
Behold, this was the iniquity of thy sister Sodom, pride, fulness of bread, and abundance of idleness was in her and in her daughters, neither did she strengthen the hand of the poor and needy.

16:50    她們狂傲，在我面前行可憎的事，我看見便將她們除掉。
And they were haughty, and committed abomination before me: therefore I took them away as I saw good.

16:51    撒馬利亞沒有犯你一半的罪，你行可憎的事比她更多，使你的姊妹因你所行一切可憎的事，倒顯為義。
Neither hath Samaria committed half of thy sins; but thou hast multiplied thine abominations more than they, and hast justified thy sisters in all thine abominations which thou hast done.

16:52    你既斷定你姊妹為義（為義或作當受羞辱），就要擔當自己的羞辱。因你所犯的罪比她們更為可憎，她們就比你更顯為義。你既使你的姊妹顯為義，你就要抱愧擔當自己的羞辱。
Thou also, which hast judged thy sisters, bear thine own shame for thy sins that thou hast committed more abominable than they: they are more righteous than thou: yea, be thou confounded also, and bear thy shame, in that thou hast justified thy sisters.

16:53    我必叫她們被擄的歸回，就是叫所多瑪和她的眾女，撒馬利亞和她的眾女，並你們中間被擄的，都要歸回，
When I shall bring again their captivity, the captivity of Sodom and her daughters, and the captivity of Samaria and her daughters, then will I bring again the captivity of thy captives in the midst of them:

16:54    好使你擔當自己的羞辱，並因你一切所行的使她們得安慰，你就抱愧。
That thou mayest bear thine own shame, and mayest be confounded in all that thou hast done, in that thou art a comfort unto them.

16:55    你的妹妹所多瑪和她的眾女必歸回原位。撒馬利亞和她的眾女，你和你的眾女，也必歸回原位。
When thy sisters, Sodom and her daughters, shall return to their former estate, and Samaria and her daughters shall return to their former estate, then thou and thy daughters shall return to your former estate.

16:56    *
For thy sister Sodom was not mentioned by thy mouth in the day of thy pride,

16:57    在你驕傲的日子，你的惡行沒有顯露以先，你的口就不提你的妹妹所多瑪。那受了凌辱的亞蘭眾女和亞蘭四圍非利士的眾女都恨惡你，藐視你。
Before thy wickedness was discovered, as at the time of thy reproach of the daughters of Syria, and all that are round about her, the daughters of the Philistines, which despise thee round about.

16:58    耶和華說，你貪淫和可憎的事，你已經擔當了。
Thou hast borne thy lewdness and thine abominations, saith the LORD.

16:59    主耶和華如此說，你這輕看誓言，背棄盟約的，我必照你所行的待你。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will even deal with thee as thou hast done, which hast despised the oath in breaking the covenant.

16:60    然而我要追念在你幼年時與你所立的約，也要與你立定永約。
Nevertheless I will remember my covenant with thee in the days of thy youth, and I will establish unto thee an everlasting covenant.

16:61    你接待你姊姊和你妹妹的時候，你要追念你所行的，自覺慚愧。並且我要將她們賜你為女兒，卻不是按著前約。
Then thou shalt remember thy ways, and be ashamed, when thou shalt receive thy sisters, thine elder and thy younger: and I will give them unto thee for daughters, but not by thy covenant.

16:62    我要堅定與你所立的約（你就知道我是耶和華），
And I will establish my covenant with thee; and thou shalt know that I am the LORD:

16:63    好使你在我赦免你一切所行的時候，心裡追念，自覺抱愧，又因你的羞辱就不再開口。這是主耶和華說的。
That thou mayest remember, and be confounded, and never open thy mouth any more because of thy shame, when I am pacified toward thee for all that thou hast done, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 17 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


17:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

17:2    人子阿，你要向以色列家出謎語，設比喻，
Son of man, put forth a riddle, and speak a parable unto the house of Israel;



17:3    說主耶和華如此說，有一大鷹，翅膀大，翎毛長，羽毛豐滿，彩色俱備，來到黎巴嫩，將香柏樹梢擰去，
And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; A great eagle with great wings, longwinged, full of feathers, which had divers colours, came unto Lebanon, and took the highest branch of the cedar:

17:4    就是折去香柏樹盡尖的嫩枝，叼到貿易之地，放在買賣城中。
He cropped off the top of his young twigs, and carried it into a land of traffick; he set it in a city of merchants.

17:5    又將以色列地的枝子栽於肥田裡，插在大水旁，如插柳樹，
He took also of the seed of the land, and planted it in a fruitful field; he placed it by great waters, and set it as a willow tree.

17:6    就漸漸生長，成為蔓延矮小的葡萄樹。其枝轉向那鷹，其根在鷹以下，於是成了葡萄樹，生出枝子，發出小枝。
And it grew, and became a spreading vine of low stature, whose branches turned toward him, and the roots thereof were under him: so it became a vine, and brought forth branches, and shot forth sprigs.

17:7    又有一大鷹，翅膀大，羽毛多。這葡萄樹從栽種的畦中向這鷹彎過根來，發出枝子，好得它的澆灌。
There was also another great eagle with great wings and many feathers: and, behold, this vine did bend her roots toward him, and shot forth her branches toward him, that he might water it by the furrows of her plantation.

17:8    這樹栽於肥田多水的旁邊，好生枝子，結果子，成為佳美的葡萄樹。
It was planted in a good soil by great waters, that it might bring forth branches, and that it might bear fruit, that it might be a goodly vine.

17:9    你要說，主耶和華如此說，這葡萄樹豈能發旺呢。鷹豈不拔出它的根來，芟除它的果子，使它枯乾，使它發的嫩葉都枯乾了嗎。也不用大力和多民，就拔出它的根來。
Say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Shall it prosper? shall he not pull up the roots thereof, and cut off the fruit thereof, that it wither? it shall wither in all the leaves of her spring, even without great power or many people to pluck it up by the roots thereof.

17:10    葡萄樹雖然栽種，豈能發旺呢。一經東風，豈不全然枯乾嗎。必在生長的畦中枯乾了。
Yea, behold, being planted, shall it prosper? shall it not utterly wither, when the east wind toucheth it? it shall wither in the furrows where it grew.

17:11    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

17:12    你對那悖逆之家說，你們不知道這些事是什麼意思嗎。你要告訴他們說，巴比倫王曾到耶路撒冷，將其中的君王和首領帶到巴比倫自己那裡去。
Say now to the rebellious house, Know ye not what these things mean? tell them, Behold, the king of Babylon is come to Jerusalem, and hath taken the king thereof, and the princes thereof, and led them with him to Babylon;

17:13    從以色列的宗室中取一人與他立約，使他發誓，並將國中有勢力的人擄去，
And hath taken of the king's seed, and made a covenant with him, and hath taken an oath of him: he hath also taken the mighty of the land:

17:14    使國低微不能自強，惟因守盟約得以存立。
That the kingdom might be base, that it might not lift itself up, but that by keeping of his covenant it might stand.

17:15    他卻背叛巴比倫王，打發使者往埃及去，要他們給他馬匹和多民。他豈能亨通呢。行這樣事的人豈能逃脫呢。他背約豈能逃脫呢。
But he rebelled against him in sending his ambassadors into Egypt, that they might give him horses and much people. Shall he prosper? shall he escape that doeth such things? or shall he break the covenant, and be delivered?

17:16    他輕看向王所起的誓，背棄王與他所立的約。主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，他定要死在立他作王，巴比倫王的京都。
As I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely in the place where the king dwelleth that made him king, whose oath he despised, and whose covenant he brake, even with him in the midst of Babylon he shall die.

17:17    敵人築壘造臺，與他打仗的時候，為要剪除多人，法老雖領大軍隊和大群眾，還是不能幫助他。
Neither shall Pharaoh with his mighty army and great company make for him in the war, by casting up mounts, and building forts, to cut off many persons:

17:18    他輕看誓言，背棄盟約，已經投降，卻又作這一切的事，他必不能逃脫。
Seeing he despised the oath by breaking the covenant, when, lo, he had given his hand, and hath done all these things, he shall not escape.

17:19    所以主耶和華如此說，我指著我的永生起誓，他既輕看指我所起的誓，背棄指我所立的約，我必要使這罪歸在他頭上。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; As I live, surely mine oath that he hath despised, and my covenant that he hath broken, even it will I recompense upon his own head.

17:20    我必將我的網撒在他身上，他必在我的網羅中纏住。我必帶他到巴比倫，並要在那裡因他干犯我的罪刑罰他。
And I will spread my net upon him, and he shall be taken in my snare, and I will bring him to Babylon, and will plead with him there for his trespass that he hath trespassed against me.

17:21    他的一切軍隊，凡逃跑的，都必倒在刀下。所剩下的，也必分散四方（方原文作風）。你們就知道說這話的是我耶和華。
And all his fugitives with all his bands shall fall by the sword, and they that remain shall be scattered toward all winds: and ye shall know that I the LORD have spoken it.

17:22    主耶和華如此說，我要將香柏樹梢擰去栽上，就是從盡尖的嫩枝中折一嫩枝，栽於極高的山上。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also take of the highest branch of the high cedar, and will set it; I will crop off from the top of his young twigs a tender one, and will plant it upon an high mountain and eminent:

17:23    在以色列高處的山栽上。它就生枝子，結果子，成為佳美的香柏樹，各類飛鳥都必宿在其下，就是宿在枝子的蔭下。
In the mountain of the height of Israel will I plant it: and it shall bring forth boughs, and bear fruit, and be a goodly cedar: and under it shall dwell all fowl of every wing; in the shadow of the branches thereof shall they dwell.

17:24    田野的樹木都必知道我耶和華使高樹矮小，矮樹高大。青樹枯乾，枯樹發旺。我耶和華如此說，也如此行了。
And all the trees of the field shall know that I the LORD have brought down the high tree, have exalted the low tree, have dried up the green tree, and have made the dry tree to flourish: I the LORD have spoken and have done it.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 18 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


18:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying,

18:2    你們在以色列地怎嗎用這俗語說父親吃了酸葡萄，兒子的牙酸倒了呢。
What mean ye, that ye use this proverb concerning the land of Israel, saying, The fathers have eaten sour grapes, and the children's teeth are set on edge?

18:3    主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，你們在以色列中，必不再有用這俗語的因由。
As I live, saith the Lord GOD, ye shall not have occasion any more to use this proverb in Israel.

18:4    看哪，世人都是屬我的。為父的怎樣屬我，為子的也照樣屬我。犯罪的，他必死亡。
Behold, all souls are mine; as the soul of the father, so also the soul of the son is mine: the soul that sinneth, it shall die.

18:5    人若是公義，且行正直與合理的事，
But if a man be just, and do that which is lawful and right,

18:6    未曾在山上吃過祭偶像之物，未曾仰望以色列家的偶像，未曾玷汙鄰舍的妻，未曾在婦人的經期內親近她，
And hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, neither hath defiled his neighbour's wife, neither hath come near to a menstruous woman,

18:7    未曾虧負人，乃將欠債之人的當頭還給他。未曾搶奪人的物件，卻將食物給飢餓的人吃，將衣服給赤身的人穿。
And hath not oppressed any, but hath restored to the debtor his pledge, hath spoiled none by violence, hath given his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment;

18:8    未曾向借錢的弟兄取利，也未曾向借糧的弟兄多要，縮手不作罪孽，在兩人之間，按至理判斷。
He that hath not given forth upon usury, neither hath taken any increase, that hath withdrawn his hand from iniquity, hath executed true judgment between man and man,

18:9    遵行我的律例，謹守我的典章，按誠實行事這人是公義的，必定存活。這是主耶和華說的。
Hath walked in my statutes, and hath kept my judgments, to deal truly; he is just, he shall surely live, saith the Lord GOD.

18:10    *
If he beget a son that is a robber, a shedder of blood, and that doeth the like to any one of these things,

18:11    他若生一個兒子，作強盜，是流人血的，不行以上所說之善，反行其中之惡，乃在山上吃過祭偶像之物，並玷汙鄰舍的妻，
And that doeth not any of those duties, but even hath eaten upon the mountains, and defiled his neighbour's wife,

18:12    虧負困苦和窮乏的人，搶奪人的物，未曾將當頭還給人，仰望偶像，並行可憎的事，
Hath oppressed the poor and needy, hath spoiled by violence, hath not restored the pledge, and hath lifted up his eyes to the idols, hath committed abomination,

18:13    向借錢的弟兄取利，向借糧的弟兄多要這人豈能存活呢。他必不能存活。他行這一切可憎的事，必要死亡，他的罪（原文作血）必歸到他身上。
Hath given forth upon usury, and hath taken increase: shall he then live? he shall not live: he hath done all these abominations; he shall surely die; his blood shall be upon him.

18:14    他若生一個兒子，見父親所犯的一切罪便懼怕（有古卷作思量），不照樣去作。
Now, lo, if he beget a son, that seeth all his father's sins which he hath done, and considereth, and doeth not such like,

18:15    未曾在山上吃過祭偶像之物，未曾仰望以色列家的偶像，未曾玷汙鄰舍的妻，
That hath not eaten upon the mountains, neither hath lifted up his eyes to the idols of the house of Israel, hath not defiled his neighbour's wife,

18:16    未曾虧負人，未曾取人的當頭，未曾搶奪人的物件，卻將食物給飢餓的人吃，將衣服給赤身的人穿，
Neither hath oppressed any, hath not withholden the pledge, neither hath spoiled by violence, but hath given his bread to the hungry, and hath covered the naked with a garment,

18:17    縮手不害貧窮人，未曾向借錢的弟兄取利，也未曾向借糧的弟兄多要。他順從我的典章，遵行我的律例，就不因父親的罪孽死亡，定要存活。
That hath taken off his hand from the poor, that hath not received usury nor increase, hath executed my judgments, hath walked in my statutes; he shall not die for the iniquity of his father, he shall surely live.

18:18    至於他父親。因為欺人太甚，搶奪弟兄，在本國的民中行不善，他必因自己的罪孽死亡。
As for his father, because he cruelly oppressed, spoiled his brother by violence, and did that which is not good among his people, lo, even he shall die in his iniquity.

18:19    你們還說，兒子為何不擔當父親的罪孽呢。兒子行正直與合理的事，謹守遵行我的一切律例，他必定存活。
Yet say ye, Why? doth not the son bear the iniquity of the father? When the son hath done that which is lawful and right, and hath kept all my statutes, and hath done them, he shall surely live.

18:20    惟有犯罪的，他必死亡。兒子必不擔當父親的罪孽，父親也不擔當兒子的罪孽。義人的善果必歸自己，惡人的惡報也必歸自己。
The soul that sinneth, it shall die. The son shall not bear the iniquity of the father, neither shall the father bear the iniquity of the son: the righteousness of the righteous shall be upon him, and the wickedness of the wicked shall be upon him.

18:21    惡人若回頭離開所作的一切罪惡，謹守我一切的律例，行正直與合理的事，他必定存活，不致死亡。
But if the wicked will turn from all his sins that he hath committed, and keep all my statutes, and do that which is lawful and right, he shall surely live, he shall not die.

18:22    他所犯的一切罪過都不被記念，因所行的義，他必存活。
All his transgressions that he hath committed, they shall not be mentioned unto him: in his righteousness that he hath done he shall live.

18:23    主耶和華說，惡人死亡，豈是我喜悅的嗎。不是喜悅他回頭離開所行的道存活嗎。
Have I any pleasure at all that the wicked should die? saith the Lord GOD: and not that he should return from his ways, and live?

18:24    義人若轉離義行而作罪孽，照著惡人所行一切可憎的事而行，他豈能存活嗎。他所行的一切義都不被記念。他必因所犯的罪，所行的惡死亡。
But when the righteous turneth away from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, and doeth according to all the abominations that the wicked man doeth, shall he live? All his righteousness that he hath done shall not be mentioned: in his trespass that he hath trespassed, and in his sin that he hath sinned, in them shall he die.

18:25    你們還說，主的道不公平。以色列家阿，你們當聽，我的道豈不公平嗎。你們的道豈不是不公平嗎。
Yet ye say, The way of the LORD is not equal. Hear now, O house of Israel; Is not my way equal? are not your ways unequal?

18:26    義人若轉離義行而作罪孽死亡，他是因所作的罪孽死亡。
When a righteous man turneth away from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, and dieth in them; for his iniquity that he hath done shall he die.

18:27    再者，惡人若回頭離開所行的惡，行正直與合理的事，他必將性命救活了。
Again, when the wicked man turneth away from his wickedness that he hath committed, and doeth that which is lawful and right, he shall save his soul alive.

18:28    因為他思量，回頭離開所犯的一切罪過，必定存活，不致死亡。
Because he considereth, and turneth away from all his transgressions that he hath committed, he shall surely live, he shall not die.

18:29    以色列家還說，主的道不公平。以色列家阿，我的道豈不公平嗎。你們的道豈不是不公平嗎。
Yet saith the house of Israel, The way of the LORD is not equal. O house of Israel, are not my ways equal? are not your ways unequal?

18:30    所以主耶和華說，以色列家阿，我必按你們各人所行的審判你們。你們當回頭離開所犯的一切罪過。這樣，罪孽必不使你們敗亡。
Therefore I will judge you, O house of Israel, every one according to his ways, saith the Lord GOD. Repent, and turn yourselves from all your transgressions; so iniquity shall not be your ruin.

18:31    你們要將所犯的一切罪過盡行拋棄，自作一個新心和新靈。以色列家阿，你們何必死亡呢。
Cast away from you all your transgressions, whereby ye have transgressed; and make you a new heart and a new spirit: for why will ye die, O house of Israel?

18:32    主耶和華說，我不喜悅那死人之死，所以你們當回頭而存活。
For I have no pleasure in the death of him that dieth, saith the Lord GOD: wherefore turn yourselves, and live ye.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 19 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


19:1    你當為以色列的王作起哀歌，
Moreover take thou up a lamentation for the princes of Israel,

19:2    說，你的母親是什麼呢。是個母獅子，蹲伏在獅子中間，在少壯獅子中養育小獅子。
And say, What is thy mother? A lioness: she lay down among lions, she nourished her whelps among young lions.

19:3    在它小獅子中養大一個，成了少壯獅子，學會抓食而吃人。
And she brought up one of her whelps: it became a young lion, and it learned to catch the prey; it devoured men.

19:4    列國聽見了就把它捉在他們的坑中，用鉤子拉到埃及地去。
The nations also heard of him; he was taken in their pit, and they brought him with chains unto the land of Egypt.

19:5    母獅見自己等候失了指望，就從它小獅子中又將一個養為少壯獅子。
Now when she saw that she had waited, and her hope was lost, then she took another of her whelps, and made him a young lion.

19:6    它在眾獅子中走來走去，成了少壯獅子，學會抓食而吃人。
And he went up and down among the lions, he became a young lion, and learned to catch the prey, and devoured men.

19:7    它知道列國的宮殿，又使他們的城邑變為荒場。因它咆哮的聲音，遍地和其中所有的就都荒廢。
And he knew their desolate palaces, and he laid waste their cities; and the land was desolate, and the fulness thereof, by the noise of his roaring.

19:8    於是四圍邦國各省的人來攻擊它，將網撒在它身上，捉在他們的坑中。
Then the nations set against him on every side from the provinces, and spread their net over him: he was taken in their pit.

19:9    他們用鉤子鉤住它，將它放在籠中，帶到巴比倫王那裡，將它放入堅固之所，使它的聲音在以色列山上不再聽見。
And they put him in ward in chains, and brought him to the king of Babylon: they brought him into holds, that his voice should no more be heard upon the mountains of Israel.

19:10    你的母親先前如葡萄樹，極其茂盛（原文作在你血中），栽於水旁。因為水多，就多結果子，滿生枝子。
Thy mother is like a vine in thy blood, planted by the waters: she was fruitful and full of branches by reason of many waters.

19:11    生出堅固的枝幹，可作掌權者的杖。這枝幹高舉在茂密的枝中，而且它生長高大，枝子繁多，遠遠可見。
And she had strong rods for the sceptres of them that bare rule, and her stature was exalted among the thick branches, and she appeared in her height with the multitude of her branches.

19:12    但這葡萄樹因忿怒被拔出摔在地上。東風吹乾其上的果子，堅固的枝幹折斷枯乾，被火燒燬了。
But she was plucked up in fury, she was cast down to the ground, and the east wind dried up her fruit: her strong rods were broken and withered; the fire consumed them.

19:13    如今栽於曠野乾旱無水之地。
And now she is planted in the wilderness, in a dry and thirsty ground.

19:14    火也從它枝幹中發出，燒滅果子，以致沒有堅固的枝幹可作掌權者的杖。這是哀歌，也必用以作哀歌。
And fire is gone out of a rod of her branches, which hath devoured her fruit, so that she hath no strong rod to be a sceptre to rule. This is a lamentation, and shall be for a lamentation.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 20 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


20:1    第七年五月初十日，有以色列的幾個長老來求問耶和華，坐在我面前。
And it came to pass in the seventh year, in the fifth month, the tenth day of the month, that certain of the elders of Israel came to enquire of the LORD, and sat before me.

20:2    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Then came the word of the LORD unto me, saying,

20:3    人子阿，你要告訴以色列的長老說，主耶和華如此說，你們來是求問我嗎。主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我必不被你們求問。
Son of man, speak unto the elders of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Are ye come to enquire of me? As I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will not be enquired of by you.

20:4    人子阿，你要審問審問他們嗎。你當使他們知道他們列祖那些可憎的事，
Wilt thou judge them, son of man, wilt thou judge them? cause them to know the abominations of their fathers:

20:5    對他們說，主耶和華如此說，當日我揀選以色列，向雅各家的後裔起誓，在埃及地將自己向他們顯現，說，我是耶和華你們的神。
And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when I chose Israel, and lifted up mine hand unto the seed of the house of Jacob, and made myself known unto them in the land of Egypt, when I lifted up mine hand unto them, saying, I am the LORD your God;

20:6    那日我向他們起誓，必領他們出埃及地，到我為他們察看的流奶與蜜之地。那地在萬國中是有榮耀的。
In the day that I lifted up mine hand unto them, to bring them forth of the land of Egypt into a land that I had espied for them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands:

20:7    我對他們說，你們各人要拋棄眼所喜愛那可憎之物，不可因埃及的偶像玷汙自己。我是耶和華你們的神。
Then said I unto them, Cast ye away every man the abominations of his eyes, and defile not yourselves with the idols of Egypt: I am the LORD your God.

20:8    他們卻悖逆我，不肯聽從我，不拋棄他們眼所喜愛那可憎之物，不離棄埃及的偶像。我就說，我要將我的忿怒傾在他們身上，在埃及地向他們成就我怒中所定的。
But they rebelled against me, and would not hearken unto me: they did not every man cast away the abominations of their eyes, neither did they forsake the idols of Egypt: then I said, I will pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my anger against them in the midst of the land of Egypt.

20:9    我卻為我名的緣故沒有這樣行，免得我名在他們所住的列國人眼前被褻瀆。我領他們出埃及地，在這列國人的眼前將自己向他們顯現。
But I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be polluted before the heathen, among whom they were, in whose sight I made myself known unto them, in bringing them forth out of the land of Egypt.

20:10    這樣，我就使他們出埃及地，領他們到曠野，
Wherefore I caused them to go forth out of the land of Egypt, and brought them into the wilderness.

20:11    將我的律例賜給他們，將我的典章指示他們。人若遵行就必因此活著。
And I gave them my statutes, and shewed them my judgments, which if a man do, he shall even live in them.

20:12    又將我的安息日賜給他們，好在我與他們中間為證據，使他們知道我耶和華是叫他們成為聖的。
Moreover also I gave them my sabbaths, to be a sign between me and them, that they might know that I am the LORD that sanctify them.

20:13    以色列家卻在曠野悖逆我，不順從我的律例，厭棄我的典章（人若遵行就必因此活著），大大幹犯我的安息日。我就說，要在曠野將我的忿怒傾在他們身上，滅絕他們。
But the house of Israel rebelled against me in the wilderness: they walked not in my statutes, and they despised my judgments, which if a man do, he shall even live in them; and my sabbaths they greatly polluted: then I said, I would pour out my fury upon them in the wilderness, to consume them.

20:14    我卻為我名的緣故，沒有這樣行，免得我的名在我領他們出埃及的列國人眼前被褻瀆。
But I wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be polluted before the heathen, in whose sight I brought them out.

20:15    並且我在曠野向他們起誓，必不領他們進入我所賜給他們流奶與蜜之地，那地在萬國中是有榮耀的。
Yet also I lifted up my hand unto them in the wilderness, that I would not bring them into the land which I had given them, flowing with milk and honey, which is the glory of all lands;

20:16    因為他們厭棄我的典章，郴順從我的律例，干犯我的安息日，他們的心隨從自己的偶像。
Because they despised my judgments, and walked not in my statutes, but polluted my sabbaths: for their heart went after their idols.

20:17    雖然如此，我眼仍顧惜他們，不毀滅他們，不在曠野將他們滅絕淨盡。
Nevertheless mine eye spared them from destroying them, neither did I make an end of them in the wilderness.

20:18    我在曠野對他們的兒女說，不要遵行你們父親的律例，不要謹守他們的惡規，也不要因他們的偶像玷汙自己。
But I said unto their children in the wilderness, Walk ye not in the statutes of your fathers, neither observe their judgments, nor defile yourselves with their idols:

20:19    我是耶和華你們的神，你們要順從我的律例，謹守遵行我的典章，
I am the LORD your God; walk in my statutes, and keep my judgments, and do them;

20:20    且以我的安息日為聖。這日在我與你們中間為證據，使你們知道我是耶和華你們的神。
And hallow my sabbaths; and they shall be a sign between me and you, that ye may know that I am the LORD your God.

20:21    只是他們的兒女悖逆我，不順從我的律例，也不謹守遵行我的典章（人若遵行就必因此活著），干犯我的安息日。我就說，要將我的忿怒傾在他們身上，在曠野向他們成就我怒中所定的。
Notwithstanding the children rebelled against me: they walked not in my statutes, neither kept my judgments to do them, which if a man do, he shall even live in them; they polluted my sabbaths: then I said, I would pour out my fury upon them, to accomplish my anger against them in the wilderness.

20:22    雖然如此，我卻為我名的緣故縮手沒有這樣行，免得我的名在我領他們出埃及的列國人眼前被褻瀆。
Nevertheless I withdrew mine hand, and wrought for my name's sake, that it should not be polluted in the sight of the heathen, in whose sight I brought them forth.

20:23    並且我在曠野向他們起誓，必將他們分散在列國，四散在列邦。
I lifted up mine hand unto them also in the wilderness, that I would scatter them among the heathen, and disperse them through the countries;

20:24    因為他們不遵行我的典章，竟厭棄我的律例，干犯我的安息日，眼目仰望他們父親的偶像。
Because they had not executed my judgments, but had despised my statutes, and had polluted my sabbaths, and their eyes were after their fathers' idols.

20:25    我也任他們遵行不美的律例，謹守不能使人活著的惡規。
Wherefore I gave them also statutes that were not good, and judgments whereby they should not live;

20:26    因他們將一切頭生的經火，我就任憑他們在這供獻的事上玷汙自己，好叫他們淒涼，使他們知道我是耶和華。
And I polluted them in their own gifts, in that they caused to pass through the fire all that openeth the womb, that I might make them desolate, to the end that they might know that I am the LORD.

20:27    人子阿，你要告訴以色列家說，主耶和華如此說，你們的列祖在得罪我的事上褻瀆我。
Therefore, son of man, speak unto the house of Israel, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Yet in this your fathers have blasphemed me, in that they have committed a trespass against me.

20:28    因為我領他們到了我起誓應許賜給他們的地，他們看見各高山，各茂密樹，就在那裡獻祭，奉上惹我發怒的供物，也在那裡焚燒馨香的祭牲，並澆上奠祭。
For when I had brought them into the land, for the which I lifted up mine hand to give it to them, then they saw every high hill, and all the thick trees, and they offered there their sacrifices, and there they presented the provocation of their offering: there also they made their sweet savour, and poured out there their drink offerings.

20:29    我就對他們說，你們所上的那高處叫什麼呢。那高處的名字叫巴麻直到今日。
Then I said unto them, What is the high place whereunto ye go? And the name thereof is called Bamah unto this day.

20:30    所以你要對以色列家說，主耶和華如此說，你們仍照你們列祖所行的玷汙自己嗎。仍照他們可憎的事行邪淫嗎。
Wherefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Are ye polluted after the manner of your fathers? and commit ye whoredom after their abominations?

20:31    你們奉上供物使你們兒子經火的時候，仍將一切偶像玷汙自己，直到今日嗎。以色列家阿，我豈被你們求問嗎。主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我必不被你們求問。
For when ye offer your gifts, when ye make your sons to pass through the fire, ye pollute yourselves with all your idols, even unto this day: and shall I be enquired of by you, O house of Israel? As I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will not be enquired of by you.

20:32    你們說，我們要像外邦人和列國的宗族一樣，去事奉木頭與石頭。你們所起的這心意萬不能成就。
And that which cometh into your mind shall not be at all, that ye say, We will be as the heathen, as the families of the countries, to serve wood and stone.

20:33    主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我總要作王，用大能的手和伸出來的膀臂，並傾出來的忿怒，治理你們。
As I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely with a mighty hand, and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out, will I rule over you:

20:34    我必用大能的手和伸出來的膀臂，並傾出來的忿怒，將你們從萬民中領出來，從分散的列國內聚集你們。
And I will bring you out from the people, and will gather you out of the countries wherein ye are scattered, with a mighty hand, and with a stretched out arm, and with fury poured out.

20:35    我必帶你們到外邦人的曠野，在那裡當面刑罰你們。
And I will bring you into the wilderness of the people, and there will I plead with you face to face.

20:36    我怎樣在埃及地的曠野刑罰你們的列祖，也必照樣刑罰你們。這是主耶和華說的。
Like as I pleaded with your fathers in the wilderness of the land of Egypt, so will I plead with you, saith the Lord GOD.

20:37    我必使你們從杖下經過，使你們被約拘束。
And I will cause you to pass under the rod, and I will bring you into the bond of the covenant:

20:38    我必從你們中間除淨叛逆和得罪我的人，將他們從所寄居的地方領出來，他們卻不得入以色列地。你們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will purge out from among you the rebels, and them that transgress against me: I will bring them forth out of the country where they sojourn, and they shall not enter into the land of Israel: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

20:39    以色列家阿，至於你們，主耶和華如此說，從此以後若不聽從我，就任憑你們去事奉偶像，只是不可再因你們的供物和偶像褻瀆我的聖名。
As for you, O house of Israel, thus saith the Lord GOD; Go ye, serve ye every one his idols, and hereafter also, if ye will not hearken unto me: but pollute ye my holy name no more with your gifts, and with your idols.



20:40    主耶和華說，在我的聖山，就是以色列高處的山，所有以色列的全家都要事奉我。我要在那裡悅納你們，向你們要供物和初熟的土產，並一切的聖物。
For in mine holy mountain, in the mountain of the height of Israel, saith the Lord GOD, there shall all the house of Israel, all of them in the land, serve me: there will I accept them, and there will I require your offerings, and the firstfruits of your oblations, with all your holy things.

20:41    我從萬民中領你們出來，從分散的列國內聚集你們，那時我必悅納你們好像馨香之祭，要在外邦人眼前在你們身上顯為聖。
I will accept you with your sweet savour, when I bring you out from the people, and gather you out of the countries wherein ye have been scattered; and I will be sanctified in you before the heathen.

20:42    我領你們進入以色列地，就是我起誓應許賜給你們列祖之地，那時你們就知道我是耶和華。
And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall bring you into the land of Israel, into the country for the which I lifted up mine hand to give it to your fathers.

20:43    你們在那裡要追念玷汙自己的行動作為，又要因所作的一切惡事厭惡自己。
And there shall ye remember your ways, and all your doings, wherein ye have been defiled; and ye shall lothe yourselves in your own sight for all your evils that ye have committed.

20:44    主耶和華說，以色列家阿，我為我名的緣故，不照著你們的惡行和你們的壞事待你們。你們就知道我是耶和華。
And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I have wrought with you for my name's sake, not according to your wicked ways, nor according to your corrupt doings, O ye house of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.

20:45    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

20:46    人子阿，你要面向南方，向南滴下預言攻擊南方田野的樹林。
Son of man, set thy face toward the south, and drop thy word toward the south, and prophesy against the forest of the south field;

20:47    對南方的樹林說，要聽耶和華的話。主耶和華如此說，我必使火在你中間著起，燒滅你中間的一切青樹和枯樹，猛烈的火焰必不熄滅。從南到北，人的臉面都被燒焦。
And say to the forest of the south, Hear the word of the LORD; Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will kindle a fire in thee, and it shall devour every green tree in thee, and every dry tree: the flaming flame shall not be quenched, and all faces from the south to the north shall be burned therein.

20:48    凡有血氣的都必知道是我耶和華使火著起，這火必不熄滅。
And all flesh shall see that I the LORD have kindled it: it shall not be quenched.

20:49    於是我說，哎。主耶和華阿，人都指著我說，他豈不是說比喻的嗎。
Then said I, Ah Lord GOD! they say of me, Doth he not speak parables?




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 21 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


21:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

21:2    人子阿，你要面向耶路撒冷和聖所滴下預言，攻擊以色列地。
Son of man, set thy face toward Jerusalem, and drop thy word toward the holy places, and prophesy against the land of Israel,

21:3    對以色列地說，耶和華如此說，我與你為敵，並要拔刀出鞘，從你中間將義人和惡人一併剪除。
And say to the land of Israel, Thus saith the LORD; Behold, I am against thee, and will draw forth my sword out of his sheath, and will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked.

21:4    我既要從你中間剪除義人和惡人，所以我的刀要出鞘，自南至北攻擊一切有血氣的。
Seeing then that I will cut off from thee the righteous and the wicked, therefore shall my sword go forth out of his sheath against all flesh from the south to the north:

21:5    一切有血氣的就知道我耶和華已經拔刀出鞘，必不再入鞘。
That all flesh may know that I the LORD have drawn forth my sword out of his sheath: it shall not return any more.

21:6    人子阿，你要嘆息，在他們眼前彎著腰，苦苦地嘆息。
Sigh therefore, thou son of man, with the breaking of thy loins; and with bitterness sigh before their eyes.

21:7    他們問你說，為何嘆息呢。你就說，因為有風聲，災禍要來。人心都必消化，手都發軟，精神衰敗，膝弱如水。看哪，這災禍臨近，必然成就。這是主耶和華說的。
And it shall be, when they say unto thee, Wherefore sighest thou? that thou shalt answer, For the tidings; because it cometh: and every heart shall melt, and all hands shall be feeble, and every spirit shall faint, and all knees shall be weak as water: behold, it cometh, and shall be brought to pass, saith the Lord GOD.

21:8    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

21:9    人子阿，你要預言。耶和華吩咐我如此說，有刀，有刀，是磨快擦亮的。
Son of man, prophesy, and say, Thus saith the LORD; Say, A sword, a sword is sharpened, and also furbished:

21:10    磨快為要行殺戮，擦亮為要像閃電。我們豈可快樂嗎。罰我子的杖藐視各樹。
It is sharpened to make a sore slaughter; it is furbished that it may glitter: should we then make mirth? it contemneth the rod of my son, as every tree.

21:11    這刀已經交給人擦亮，為要應手使用。這刀已經磨快擦亮，好交在行殺戮的人手中。
And he hath given it to be furbished, that it may be handled: this sword is sharpened, and it is furbished, to give it into the hand of the slayer.

21:12    人子阿，你要呼喊哀號，因為這刀臨到我的百姓和以色列一切的首領。他們和我的百姓都交在刀下，所以你要拍腿嘆息。
Cry and howl, son of man: for it shall be upon my people, it shall be upon all the princes of Israel: terrors by reason of the sword shall be upon my people: smite therefore upon thy thigh.

21:13    有試驗的事。若那藐視的杖歸於無有，怎嗎樣呢。這是主耶和華說的。
Because it is a trial, and what if the sword contemn even the rod? it shall be no more, saith the Lord GOD.

21:14    人子阿，你要拍掌預言。我耶和華要使這刀，就是致死傷的刀，一連三次加倍刺人，進入他們的內屋，使大人受死傷的就是這刀。
Thou therefore, son of man, prophesy, and smite thine hands together, and let the sword be doubled the third time, the sword of the slain: it is the sword of the great men that are slain, which entereth into their privy chambers.

21:15    我設立這恐嚇人的刀，攻擊他們的一切城門，使他們的心消化，加增他們跌倒的事。哎。這刀造得像閃電，磨得尖利，要行殺戮。
I have set the point of the sword against all their gates, that their heart may faint, and their ruins be multiplied: ah! it is made bright, it is wrapped up for the slaughter.

21:16    刀阿，你歸在右邊，擺在左邊。你面向哪方，就向那方殺戮。
Go thee one way or other, either on the right hand, or on the left, whithersoever thy face is set.

21:17    我也要拍掌，並要使我的忿怒止息。這是我耶和華說的。
I will also smite mine hands together, and I will cause my fury to rest: I the LORD have said it.

21:18    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came unto me again, saying,

21:19    人子阿，你要定出兩條路，好使巴比倫王的刀來。這兩條路必從一地分出來，又要在通城的路口上畫出一隻手來。
Also, thou son of man, appoint thee two ways, that the sword of the king of Babylon may come: both twain shall come forth out of one land: and choose thou a place, choose it at the head of the way to the city.

21:20    你要定出一條路，使刀來到亞捫人的拉巴。又要定出一條路，使刀來到猶大的堅固城耶路撒冷。
Appoint a way, that the sword may come to Rabbath of the Ammonites, and to Judah in Jerusalem the defenced.

21:21    因為巴比倫王站在岔路那裡，在兩條路口上要占卜。他搖籤（原文作箭）求問神像，察看犧牲的肝。
For the king of Babylon stood at the parting of the way, at the head of the two ways, to use divination: he made his arrows bright, he consulted with images, he looked in the liver.

21:22    在右手中拿著為耶路撒冷占卜的籤，使他安設撞城錘，張口叫殺，揚聲吶喊，築壘造臺，以撞城錘，攻打城門。
At his right hand was the divination for Jerusalem, to appoint captains, to open the mouth in the slaughter, to lift up the voice with shouting, to appoint battering rams against the gates, to cast a mount, and to build a fort.

21:23    據那些曾起誓的猶大人看來，這是虛假的占卜。但巴比倫王要使他們想起罪孽，以致將他們捉住。
And it shall be unto them as a false divination in their sight, to them that have sworn oaths: but he will call to remembrance the iniquity, that they may be taken.

21:24    主耶和華如此說，因你們的過犯顯露，使你們的罪孽被記念，以致你們的罪惡在行為上都彰顯出來。又因你們被記念，就被捉住。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye have made your iniquity to be remembered, in that your transgressions are discovered, so that in all your doings your sins do appear; because, I say, that ye are come to remembrance, ye shall be taken with the hand.

21:25    你這受死傷行惡的以色列王阿，罪孽的盡頭到了，受報的日子已到。
And thou, profane wicked prince of Israel, whose day is come, when iniquity shall have an end,

21:26    主耶和華如此說，當除掉冠，摘下冕，景況必不再像先前。要使卑蛇升為高，使高者降為卑。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Remove the diadem, and take off the crown: this shall not be the same: exalt him that is low, and abase him that is high.

21:27    我要將這國傾覆，傾覆，而又傾覆。這國也必不再有，直等到那應得的人來到，我就賜給他。
I will overturn, overturn, overturn, it: and it shall be no more, until he come whose right it is; and I will give it him.

21:28    人子阿，要發預言說，主耶和華論到亞捫人和他們的凌辱，吩咐我如此說，有刀，有拔出來的刀，已經擦亮，為行殺戮，使他像閃電以行吞滅。
And thou, son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD concerning the Ammonites, and concerning their reproach; even say thou, The sword, the sword is drawn: for the slaughter it is furbished, to consume because of the glittering:

21:29    人為你見虛假的異象，行謊詐的占卜，使你倒在受死傷之惡人的頸項上。他們罪孽到了盡頭，受報的日子已到。
Whiles they see vanity unto thee, whiles they divine a lie unto thee, to bring thee upon the necks of them that are slain, of the wicked, whose day is come, when their iniquity shall have an end.

21:30    你將刀收入鞘吧。在你受造之處，生長之地，我必刑罰你。
Shall I cause it to return into his sheath? I will judge thee in the place where thou wast created, in the land of thy nativity.

21:31    我必將我的惱恨倒在你身上，將我烈怒的火噴在你身上。又將你交在善於殺滅的畜類人手中。
And I will pour out mine indignation upon thee, I will blow against thee in the fire of my wrath, and deliver thee into the hand of brutish men, and skilful to destroy.

21:32    你必當柴被火焚燒，你的血必流在國中，你必不再被記念，因為這是我耶和華說的。
Thou shalt be for fuel to the fire; thy blood shall be in the midst of the land; thou shalt be no more remembered: for I the LORD have spoken it.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 22 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


22:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

22:2    人子阿，你要審問審問這流人血的城嗎。當使她知道她一切可憎的事。
Now, thou son of man, wilt thou judge, wilt thou judge the bloody city? yea, thou shalt shew her all her abominations.

22:3    你要說，主耶和華如此說，哎。這城有流人血的事在其中，叫她受報的日期來到，又作偶像玷汙自己，陷害自己。
Then say thou, Thus saith the Lord GOD, The city sheddeth blood in the midst of it, that her time may come, and maketh idols against herself to defile herself.

22:4    你因流了人的血，就為有罪。你作了偶像，就玷汙自己，使你受報之日臨近，報應之年來到。所以我叫你受列國的凌辱和列邦的譏誚。
Thou art become guilty in thy blood that thou hast shed; and hast defiled thyself in thine idols which thou hast made; and thou hast caused thy days to draw near, and art come even unto thy years: therefore have I made thee a reproach unto the heathen, and a mocking to all countries.

22:5    你這名臭，多亂的城阿，那些離你近，離你遠的都必譏誚你。
Those that be near, and those that be far from thee, shall mock thee, which art infamous and much vexed.

22:6    看哪，以色列的首領各逞其能，在你中間流人之血。
Behold, the princes of Israel, every one were in thee to their power to shed blood.

22:7    在你中間有輕慢父母的，有欺壓寄居的，有虧負孤兒寡婦的。
In thee have they set light by father and mother: in the midst of thee have they dealt by oppression with the stranger: in thee have they vexed the fatherless and the widow.

22:8    你藐視了我的聖物，干犯了我的安息日。
Thou hast despised mine holy things, and hast profaned my sabbaths.

22:9    在你中間有讒謗人，流人血的。有在山上吃過祭偶像之物的，有行淫亂的。
In thee are men that carry tales to shed blood: and in thee they eat upon the mountains: in the midst of thee they commit lewdness.

22:10    在你中間有露繼母下體羞辱父親的，有玷辱月經不潔淨之婦人的。
In thee have they discovered their fathers' nakedness: in thee have they humbled her that was set apart for pollution.

22:11    這人與鄰舍的妻行可憎的事。那人貪淫玷汙兒婦。還有玷辱同父之姊妹的。
And one hath committed abomination with his neighbour's wife; and another hath lewdly defiled his daughter in law; and another in thee hath humbled his sister, his father's daughter.

22:12    在你中間有為流人血受賄賂的。有向借錢的弟兄取利，向借糧的弟兄多要的。且因貪得無饜，欺壓鄰舍奪取財物，竟忘了我。這是主耶和華說的。
In thee have they taken gifts to shed blood; thou hast taken usury and increase, and thou hast greedily gained of thy neighbours by extortion, and hast forgotten me, saith the Lord GOD.

22:13    看哪，我因你所得不義之財和你中間所流的血，就拍掌嘆息。
Behold, therefore I have smitten mine hand at thy dishonest gain which thou hast made, and at thy blood which hath been in the midst of thee.

22:14    到了我懲罰你的日子，你的心還能忍受嗎。你的手還能有力嗎。我耶和華說了這話，就必照著行。
Can thine heart endure, or can thine hands be strong, in the days that I shall deal with thee? I the LORD have spoken it, and will do it.

22:15    我必將你分散在列國，四散在列邦。我也必從你中間除掉你的汙穢。
And I will scatter thee among the heathen, and disperse thee in the countries, and will consume thy filthiness out of thee.

22:16    你必在列國人的眼前因自己所行的被褻瀆，你就知道我是耶和華。
And thou shalt take thine inheritance in thyself in the sight of the heathen, and thou shalt know that I am the LORD.

22:17    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

22:18    人子阿，以色列家在我看為渣滓。他們都是爐中的銅，錫，鐵，鉛，都是銀渣滓。
Son of man, the house of Israel is to me become dross: all they are brass, and tin, and iron, and lead, in the midst of the furnace; they are even the dross of silver.

22:19    所以主耶和華如此說，因你們都成為渣滓，我必聚集你們在耶路撒冷中。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because ye are all become dross, behold, therefore I will gather you into the midst of Jerusalem.

22:20    人怎樣將銀，銅，鐵，鉛，錫聚在爐中，吹火熔化。照樣，我也要發怒氣和忿怒，將你們聚集放在城中，熔化你們。
As they gather silver, and brass, and iron, and lead, and tin, into the midst of the furnace, to blow the fire upon it, to melt it; so will I gather you in mine anger and in my fury, and I will leave you there, and melt you.

22:21    我必聚集你們，把我烈怒的火吹在你們身上，你們就在其中熔化。
Yea, I will gather you, and blow upon you in the fire of my wrath, and ye shall be melted in the midst thereof.

22:22    銀子怎樣熔化在爐中，你們也必照樣熔化在城中，你們就知道我耶和華是將忿怒倒在你們身上了。
As silver is melted in the midst of the furnace, so shall ye be melted in the midst thereof; and ye shall know that I the LORD have poured out my fury upon you.

22:23    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

22:24    人子阿，你要對這地說，你是未得潔淨之地，在惱恨的日子也沒有雨下在你以上。
Son of man, say unto her, Thou art the land that is not cleansed, nor rained upon in the day of indignation.

22:25    其中的先知同謀背叛，如咆哮的獅子抓撕掠物。他們吞滅人民，搶奪財寶，使這地多有寡婦。
There is a conspiracy of her prophets in the midst thereof, like a roaring lion ravening the prey; they have devoured souls; they have taken the treasure and precious things; they have made her many widows in the midst thereof.

22:26    其中的祭司強解我的律法，褻瀆我的聖物，不分別聖的和俗的，也不使人分辨潔淨的和不潔淨的，又遮眼不顧我的安息日。我也在他們中間被褻慢。
Her priests have violated my law, and have profaned mine holy things: they have put no difference between the holy and profane, neither have they shewed difference between the unclean and the clean, and have hid their eyes from my sabbaths, and I am profaned among them.

22:27    其中的首領彷佛豺狼抓撕掠物，殺人流血，傷害人命，要得不義之財。
Her princes in the midst thereof are like wolves ravening the prey, to shed blood, and to destroy souls, to get dishonest gain.

22:28    其中的先知為百姓用未泡透的灰抹牆，就是為他們見虛假的異象，用謊詐的占卜，說，主耶和華如此說，其實耶和華沒有說。
And her prophets have daubed them with untempered morter, seeing vanity, and divining lies unto them, saying, Thus saith the Lord GOD, when the LORD hath not spoken.

22:29    國內眾民一味地欺壓，慣行搶奪，虧負困苦窮乏的，背理欺壓寄居的。
The people of the land have used oppression, and exercised robbery, and have vexed the poor and needy: yea, they have oppressed the stranger wrongfully.

22:30    我在他們中間尋梢一人重修牆垣，在我面前為這國站在破口防堵，使我不滅絕這國，卻找不著一個。
And I sought for a man among them, that should make up the hedge, and stand in the gap before me for the land, that I should not destroy it: but I found none.

22:31    所以我將惱恨倒在他們身上，用烈怒的火滅了他們，照他們所行的報應在他們頭上。這是主耶和華說的。
Therefore have I poured out mine indignation upon them; I have consumed them with the fire of my wrath: their own way have I recompensed upon their heads, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 23 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


23:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

23:2    人子阿，有兩個女子，是一母所生，
Son of man, there were two women, the daughters of one mother:

23:3    她們在埃及行邪淫，在幼年時行邪淫。她們在那裡作處女的時候，有人擁抱她們的懷，撫摸她們的乳。
And they committed whoredoms in Egypt; they committed whoredoms in their youth: there were their breasts pressed, and there they bruised the teats of their virginity.

23:4    她們的名字，姊姊名叫阿荷拉，妹妹名叫阿荷利巴。她們都歸於我，生了兒女。論到她們的名字，阿荷拉就是撒馬利亞，阿荷利巴就是耶路撒冷。
And the names of them were Aholah the elder, and Aholibah her sister: and they were mine, and they bare sons and daughters. Thus were their names; Samaria is Aholah, and Jerusalem Aholibah.

23:5    阿荷拉歸我之後行邪淫，貪戀所愛的人，就是她的鄰邦亞述人。
And Aholah played the harlot when she was mine; and she doted on her lovers, on the Assyrians her neighbours,

23:6    這些人都穿藍衣，作省長，副省長，都騎著馬，是可愛的少年人。
Which were clothed with blue, captains and rulers, all of them desirable young men, horsemen riding upon horses.

23:7    阿荷拉就與亞述人中最美的男子放縱淫行，她因所戀愛之人的一切偶像，玷汙自己。
Thus she committed her whoredoms with them, with all them that were the chosen men of Assyria, and with all on whom she doted: with all their idols she defiled herself.

23:8    自從在埃及的時候，她就沒有離開淫亂，因為她年幼作處女的時候，埃及人與她行淫，撫摸她的乳，縱慾與她行淫。
Neither left she her whoredoms brought from Egypt: for in her youth they lay with her, and they bruised the breasts of her virginity, and poured their whoredom upon her.

23:9    因此，我將她交在她所愛的人手中，就是她所戀愛的亞述人手中。
Wherefore I have delivered her into the hand of her lovers, into the hand of the Assyrians, upon whom she doted.

23:10    他們就露了她的下體，擄掠她的兒女，用刀殺了她，使她在婦女中留下臭名，因他們向她施行審判。
These discovered her nakedness: they took her sons and her daughters, and slew her with the sword: and she became famous among women; for they had executed judgment upon her.

23:11    她妹妹阿荷利巴雖然看見了，卻還貪戀，比她姊姊更醜。行淫亂比她姊姊更多。
And when her sister Aholibah saw this, she was more corrupt in her inordinate love than she, and in her whoredoms more than her sister in her whoredoms.

23:12    她貪戀鄰邦的亞述人，就是穿極華美的衣服，騎著馬的省長，副省長，都是可愛的少年人。
She doted upon the Assyrians her neighbours, captains and rulers clothed most gorgeously, horsemen riding upon horses, all of them desirable young men.

23:13    我看見她被玷汙了，她姊妹二人同行一路。
Then I saw that she was defiled, that they took both one way,

23:14    阿荷利巴又加增淫行，因她看見人像畫在牆上，就是用丹色所畫迦勒底人的像，
And that she increased her whoredoms: for when she saw men pourtrayed upon the wall, the images of the Chaldeans pourtrayed with vermilion,

23:15    腰間繫著帶子，頭上有下垂的裹頭巾，都是軍長的形狀，仿照巴比倫人的形像。他們的故土就是迦勒底。
Girded with girdles upon their loins, exceeding in dyed attire upon their heads, all of them princes to look to, after the manner of the Babylonians of Chaldea, the land of their nativity:

23:16    阿荷利巴一看見就貪戀他們，打發使者往迦勒底去見他們。
And as soon as she saw them with her eyes, she doted upon them, and sent messengers unto them into Chaldea.

23:17    巴比倫人就來登她愛情的床，與她行淫玷汙她。她被玷汙，隨後心裡與他們生疏。
And the Babylonians came to her into the bed of love, and they defiled her with their whoredom, and she was polluted with them, and her mind was alienated from them.

23:18    這樣，她顯露淫行，又顯露下體。我心就與她生疏，像先前與她姊姊生疏一樣。
So she discovered her whoredoms, and discovered her nakedness: then my mind was alienated from her, like as my mind was alienated from her sister.

23:19    她還加增她的淫行，追念她幼年在埃及地行邪淫的日子，
Yet she multiplied her whoredoms, in calling to remembrance the days of her youth, wherein she had played the harlot in the land of Egypt.

23:20    貪戀情人身壯精足，如驢如馬。
For she doted upon their paramours, whose flesh is as the flesh of asses, and whose issue is like the issue of horses.

23:21    這樣，你就想起你幼年的淫行。那時，埃及人擁抱你的懷，撫摸你的乳。
Thus thou calledst to remembrance the lewdness of thy youth, in bruising thy teats by the Egyptians for the paps of thy youth.

23:22    阿荷利巴阿，主耶和華如此說，我必激動你先愛而後生疏的人來攻擊你。我必使他們來，在你四圍攻擊你。
Therefore, O Aholibah, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will raise up thy lovers against thee, from whom thy mind is alienated, and I will bring them against thee on every side;

23:23    所來的就是巴比倫人，迦勒底的眾人，比割人，書亞人，哥亞人，同著他們的還有亞述眾人，乃是作省長，副省長，作軍長有名聲的，都騎著馬，是可愛的少年人。
The Babylonians, and all the Chaldeans, Pekod, and Shoa, and Koa, and all the Assyrians with them: all of them desirable young men, captains and rulers, great lords and renowned, all of them riding upon horses.

23:24    他們必帶兵器，戰車，輜重車，率領大眾來攻擊你。他們要拿大小盾牌，頂盔擺陣，在你四圍攻擊你。我要將審判的事交給他們，他們必按著自己的條例審判你。
And they shall come against thee with chariots, wagons, and wheels, and with an assembly of people, which shall set against thee buckler and shield and helmet round about: and I will set judgment before them, and they shall judge thee according to their judgments.

23:25    我必以忌恨攻擊你。他們必以忿怒辦你。他們必割去你的鼻子和耳朵。你遺留（或作餘剩下同）的人必倒在刀下。他們必擄去你的兒女。你所遺留的必被火焚燒。
And I will set my jealousy against thee, and they shall deal furiously with thee: they shall take away thy nose and thine ears; and thy remnant shall fall by the sword: they shall take thy sons and thy daughters; and thy residue shall be devoured by the fire.

23:26    他們必剝去你的衣服，奪取你華美的寶器。
They shall also strip thee out of thy clothes, and take away thy fair jewels.

23:27    這樣，我必使你的淫行和你從埃及地染來的淫亂止息了，使你不再仰望亞述，也不再追念埃及。
Thus will I make thy lewdness to cease from thee, and thy whoredom brought from the land of Egypt: so that thou shalt not lift up thine eyes unto them, nor remember Egypt any more.

23:28    主耶和華如此說，我必將你交在你所恨惡的人手中，就是你心與他生疏的人手中。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will deliver thee into the hand of them whom thou hatest, into the hand of them from whom thy mind is alienated:

23:29    他們必以恨惡辦你，奪取你一切勞碌得來的，留下你赤身露體。你淫亂的下體，連你的淫行，帶你的淫亂，都被顯露。
And they shall deal with thee hatefully, and shall take away all thy labour, and shall leave thee naked and bare: and the nakedness of thy whoredoms shall be discovered, both thy lewdness and thy whoredoms.

23:30    人必向你行這些事。因為你隨從外邦人行邪淫，被他們的偶像玷汙了。
I will do these things unto thee, because thou hast gone a whoring after the heathen, and because thou art polluted with their idols.

23:31    你走了你姊姊所走的路，所以我必將她的杯交在你手中。
Thou hast walked in the way of thy sister; therefore will I give her cup into thine hand.

23:32    主耶和華如此說，你必喝你姊姊所喝的杯。那杯又深又廣，盛得甚多，使你被人嗤笑譏刺。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou shalt drink of thy sister's cup deep and large: thou shalt be laughed to scorn and had in derision; it containeth much.

23:33    你必酩酊大醉，滿有愁苦，喝乾你姊姊撒馬利亞的杯，就是令人驚駭淒涼的杯。
Thou shalt be filled with drunkenness and sorrow, with the cup of astonishment and desolation, with the cup of thy sister Samaria.

23:34    你必喝這杯，以致喝盡。杯破又齦杯片，撕裂自己的乳。因為這事我曾說過。這是主耶和華說的。
Thou shalt even drink it and suck it out, and thou shalt break the sherds thereof, and pluck off thine own breasts: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

23:35    主耶和華如此說，因你忘記我，將我丟在背後，所以你要擔當你淫行和淫亂的報應。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast forgotten me, and cast me behind thy back, therefore bear thou also thy lewdness and thy whoredoms.

23:36    耶和華又對我說，人子阿，你要審問阿荷拉與阿荷利巴嗎。當指出她們所行可憎的事。
The LORD said moreover unto me; Son of man, wilt thou judge Aholah and Aholibah? yea, declare unto them their abominations;

23:37    她們行淫，手中有殺人的血，又與偶像行淫，並使她們為我所生的兒女經火燒給偶像。
That they have committed adultery, and blood is in their hands, and with their idols have they committed adultery, and have also caused their sons, whom they bare unto me, to pass for them through the fire, to devour them.

23:38    此外，她們還有向我所行的，就是同日玷汙我的聖所，干犯我的安息日。
Moreover this they have done unto me: they have defiled my sanctuary in the same day, and have profaned my sabbaths.

23:39    她們殺了兒女獻與偶像，當天又入我的聖所，將聖所褻瀆了。她們在我殿中所行的乃是如此。
For when they had slain their children to their idols, then they came the same day into my sanctuary to profane it; and, lo, thus have they done in the midst of mine house.

23:40    況且你們二婦打發使者去請遠方人。使者到他們那裡，他們就來了。你們為他們沭浴己身，粉飾眼目，佩戴妝飾，
And furthermore, that ye have sent for men to come from far, unto whom a messenger was sent; and, lo, they came: for whom thou didst wash thyself, paintedst thy eyes, and deckedst thyself with ornaments,

23:41    坐在華美的床上，前面擺設桌案，將我的香料膏油擺在其上。
And satest upon a stately bed, and a table prepared before it, whereupon thou hast set mine incense and mine oil.

23:42    在那裡有群眾安逸歡樂的聲音，並有粗俗的人和酒徒從曠野同來，把鐲子戴在二婦的手上，把華冠戴在她們的頭上。
And a voice of a multitude being at ease was with her: and with the men of the common sort were brought Sabeans from the wilderness, which put bracelets upon their hands, and beautiful crowns upon their heads.

23:43    我論這行淫衰老的婦人說，現在人還要與她行淫，她也要與人行淫。
Then said I unto her that was old in adulteries, Will they now commit whoredoms with her, and she with them?

23:44    人與阿荷拉，並阿荷利巴二淫婦苟合，好像與妓女苟合。
Yet they went in unto her, as they go in unto a woman that playeth the harlot: so went they in unto Aholah and unto Aholibah, the lewd women.

23:45    必有義人，照審判淫婦和流人血的婦人之例，審判她們。因為她們是淫婦，手中有殺人的血。
And the righteous men, they shall judge them after the manner of adulteresses, and after the manner of women that shed blood; because they are adulteresses, and blood is in their hands.

23:46    主耶和華如此說，我必使多人來攻擊她們，使她們拋來拋去，被人搶奪。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; I will bring up a company upon them, and will give them to be removed and spoiled.

23:47    這些人必用石頭打死她們，用刀劍殺害她們，又殺戮她們的兒女，用火焚燒她們的房屋。
And the company shall stone them with stones, and dispatch them with their swords; they shall slay their sons and their daughters, and burn up their houses with fire.

23:48    這樣，我必使淫行從境內止息，好叫一切婦人都受警戒，不效法你們的淫行。
Thus will I cause lewdness to cease out of the land, that all women may be taught not to do after your lewdness.

23:49    人必照著你們的淫行報應你們。你們要擔當拜偶像的罪，就知道我是主耶和華。
And they shall recompense your lewdness upon you, and ye shall bear the sins of your idols: and ye shall know that I am the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 24 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


24:1    第九年十月初十日，耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Again in the ninth year, in the tenth month, in the tenth day of the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

24:2    人子阿，今日正是巴比倫王就近耶路撒冷的日子，你要將這日記下，
Son of man, write thee the name of the day, even of this same day: the king of Babylon set himself against Jerusalem this same day.

24:3    要向這悖逆之家設比喻說，主耶和華如此說，將鍋放在火上，放好了，就倒水在其中。
And utter a parable unto the rebellious house, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Set on a pot, set it on, and also pour water into it:

24:4    將肉塊，就是一切肥美的肉塊，腿，和肩都聚在其中，拿美好的骨頭把鍋裝滿。
Gather the pieces thereof into it, even every good piece, the thigh, and the shoulder; fill it with the choice bones.

24:5    取羊群中最好的，將柴堆在鍋下，使鍋開滾，好把骨頭煮在其中。
Take the choice of the flock, and burn also the bones under it, and make it boil well, and let them seethe the bones of it therein.

24:6    主耶和華如此說，禍哉。這流人血的城，就是長鏽的鍋。其中的鏽未曾除掉，須要將肉塊從其中一一取出來，不必為它拈鬮。
Wherefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city, to the pot whose scum is therein, and whose scum is not gone out of it! bring it out piece by piece; let no lot fall upon it.

24:7    城中所流的血倒在淨光的磐石上，不倒在地上，用土掩蓋。
For her blood is in the midst of her; she set it upon the top of a rock; she poured it not upon the ground, to cover it with dust;

24:8    這城中所流的血倒在淨光的磐石上，不得掩蓋，乃是出於我，為要發忿怒施行報應。
That it might cause fury to come up to take vengeance; I have set her blood upon the top of a rock, that it should not be covered.

24:9    所以主耶和華如此說，禍哉。這流人血的城，我也必大堆火柴，
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Woe to the bloody city! I will even make the pile for fire great.

24:10    添上木柴，使火著旺，將肉煮爛，把湯熬濃，使骨頭烤焦。
Heap on wood, kindle the fire, consume the flesh, and spice it well, and let the bones be burned.

24:11    把鍋倒空坐在炭火上，使鍋燒熱，使銅燒紅，熔化其中的汙穢，除淨其上的鏽。
Then set it empty upon the coals thereof, that the brass of it may be hot, and may burn, and that the filthiness of it may be molten in it, that the scum of it may be consumed.

24:12    這鍋勞碌疲乏，所長的大鏽仍未除掉。這鏽就是用火也不能除掉。
She hath wearied herself with lies, and her great scum went not forth out of her: her scum shall be in the fire.

24:13    在你汙穢中有淫行，我潔淨你，你卻不潔淨。你的汙穢再不能潔淨，直等我向你發的忿怒止息。
In thy filthiness is lewdness: because I have purged thee, and thou wast not purged, thou shalt not be purged from thy filthiness any more, till I have caused my fury to rest upon thee.

24:14    我耶和華說過的必定成就，必照話而行，必不返回，必不顧惜，也不後悔。人必照你的舉動行為審判你。這是主耶和華說的。
I the LORD have spoken it: it shall come to pass, and I will do it; I will not go back, neither will I spare, neither will I repent; according to thy ways, and according to thy doings, shall they judge thee, saith the Lord GOD.

24:15    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Also the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

24:16    人子阿，我要將你眼目所喜愛的忽然取去，你卻不可悲哀哭泣，也不可流淚，
Son of man, behold, I take away from thee the desire of thine eyes with a stroke: yet neither shalt thou mourn nor weep, neither shall thy tears run down.

24:17    只可嘆息，不可出聲，不可辦理喪事。頭上仍勒裹頭巾，腳上仍穿鞋，不可蒙著嘴脣，也不可吃弔喪的食物。
Forbear to cry, make no mourning for the dead, bind the tire of thine head upon thee, and put on thy shoes upon thy feet, and cover not thy lips, and eat not the bread of men.

24:18    於是我將這事早晨告訴百姓，晚上我的妻就死了。次日早晨我便遵命而行。
So I spake unto the people in the morning: and at even my wife died; and I did in the morning as I was commanded.

24:19    百姓問我說，你這樣行與我們有什麼關係，你不告訴我們嗎。
And the people said unto me, Wilt thou not tell us what these things are to us, that thou doest so?

24:20    我回答他們，耶和華的話臨到我說，
Then I answered them, The word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

24:21    你告訴以色列家，主耶和華如此說，我必使我的聖所，就是你們勢力所誇耀，眼裡所喜愛，心中所愛惜的被褻瀆，並且你們所遺留的兒女必倒在刀下。
Speak unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will profane my sanctuary, the excellency of your strength, the desire of your eyes, and that which your soul pitieth; and your sons and your daughters whom ye have left shall fall by the sword.

24:22    那時，你們必行我僕人所行的，不蒙著嘴脣，也不吃弔喪的食物。
And ye shall do as I have done: ye shall not cover your lips, nor eat the bread of men.

24:23    你們仍要頭上勒裹頭巾，腳上穿鞋。不可悲哀哭泣。你們必因自己的罪孽相對嘆息，漸漸消滅。
And your tires shall be upon your heads, and your shoes upon your feet: ye shall not mourn nor weep; but ye shall pine away for your iniquities, and mourn one toward another.

24:24    以西結必這樣為你們作預兆。凡他所行的，你們也必照樣行。那事來到，你們就知道我是主耶和華。
Thus Ezekiel is unto you a sign: according to all that he hath done shall ye do: and when this cometh, ye shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

24:25    人子阿，我除掉他們所倚靠，所歡喜的榮耀，並眼中所喜愛，心裡所重看的兒女。
Also, thou son of man, shall it not be in the day when I take from them their strength, the joy of their glory, the desire of their eyes, and that whereupon they set their minds, their sons and their daughters,

24:26    那日逃脫的人豈不來到你這裡，使你耳聞這事嗎。
That he that escapeth in that day shall come unto thee, to cause thee to hear it with thine ears?

24:27    你必向逃脫的人開口說話，不再啞口。你必這樣為他們作預兆，他們就知道我是耶和華。
In that day shall thy mouth be opened to him which is escaped, and thou shalt speak, and be no more dumb: and thou shalt be a sign unto them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 25 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


25:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

25:2    人子阿，你要面向亞捫人說預言，攻擊他們，
Son of man, set thy face against the Ammonites, and prophesy against them;

25:3    說，你們當聽主耶和華的話。主耶和華如此說，我的聖所被褻瀆，以色列地變荒涼，猶大家被擄掠。那時，你便因這些事說，阿哈。
And say unto the Ammonites, Hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou saidst, Aha, against my sanctuary, when it was profaned; and against the land of Israel, when it was desolate; and against the house of Judah, when they went into captivity;

25:4    所以我必將你的地交給東方人為業。他們必在你的地上安營居住，吃你的果子，喝你的奶。
Behold, therefore I will deliver thee to the men of the east for a possession, and they shall set their palaces in thee, and make their dwellings in thee: they shall eat thy fruit, and they shall drink thy milk.

25:5    我必使拉巴為駱駝場，使亞捫人的地為羊群躺臥之處，你們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will make Rabbah a stable for camels, and the Ammonites a couching place for flocks: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

25:6    主耶和華如此說，因你拍手頓足，以滿心的恨惡向以色列地歡喜，
For thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast clapped thine hands, and stamped with the feet, and rejoiced in heart with all thy despite against the land of Israel;

25:7    所以我伸手攻擊你，將你交給列國作為擄物。我必從萬民中剪除你，使你從萬國中敗亡。我必除滅你，你就知道我是耶和華。
Behold, therefore I will stretch out mine hand upon thee, and will deliver thee for a spoil to the heathen; and I will cut thee off from the people, and I will cause thee to perish out of the countries: I will destroy thee; and thou shalt know that I am the LORD.

25:8    主耶和華如此說，因摩押和西珥人說，看哪，猶大家與列國無異，
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Moab and Seir do say, Behold, the house of Judah is like unto all the heathen;

25:9    所以我要破開摩押邊界上的城邑，就是摩押人看為本國之榮耀的伯耶西末，巴力免，基列亭，
Therefore, behold, I will open the side of Moab from the cities, from his cities which are on his frontiers, the glory of the country, Bethjeshimoth, Baalmeon, and Kiriathaim,

25:10    好使東方人來攻擊亞捫人。我必將亞捫人之地交給他們為業，使亞捫人在列國中不再被記念。
Unto the men of the east with the Ammonites, and will give them in possession, that the Ammonites may not be remembered among the nations.

25:11    我必向摩押施行審判，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will execute judgments upon Moab; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

25:12    主耶和華如此說，因為以東報仇雪恨，攻擊猶大家，向他們報仇，大大有罪，
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because that Edom hath dealt against the house of Judah by taking vengeance, and hath greatly offended, and revenged himself upon them;

25:13    所以主耶和華如此說，我必伸手攻擊以東，剪除人與牲畜，使以東從毯螅起，人必倒在刀下，地要變為荒涼，直到底但。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also stretch out mine hand upon Edom, and will cut off man and beast from it; and I will make it desolate from Teman; and they of Dedan shall fall by the sword.

25:14    我必藉我民以色列的手報復以東。以色列民必照我的怒氣，按我的忿怒在以東施報，以東人就知道是我施報。這是主耶和華說的。
And I will lay my vengeance upon Edom by the hand of my people Israel: and they shall do in Edom according to mine anger and according to my fury; and they shall know my vengeance, saith the Lord GOD.

25:15    主耶和華如此說，因非利士人向猶大人報仇，就是以恨惡的心報仇雪恨，永懷仇恨，要毀滅他們，
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because the Philistines have dealt by revenge, and have taken vengeance with a despiteful heart, to destroy it for the old hatred;

25:16    所以主耶和華如此說，我必伸手攻擊非利士人，剪除基利提人，滅絕沿海剩下的居民。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will stretch out mine hand upon the Philistines, and I will cut off the Cherethims, and destroy the remnant of the sea coast.

25:17    我向他們大施報應，發怒斥責他們。我報復他們的時候，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will execute great vengeance upon them with furious rebukes; and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall lay my vengeance upon them.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 26 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


26:1    第十一年十一月初一日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

26:2    人子阿，因推羅向耶路撒冷說，阿哈，那作眾民之門的已經破壞，向我開放。她既變為荒場，我必豐盛。
Son of man, because that Tyrus hath said against Jerusalem, Aha, she is broken that was the gates of the people: she is turned unto me: I shall be replenished, now she is laid waste:

26:3    所以，主耶和華如此說，推羅阿，我必與你為敵，使許多國民上來攻擊你，如同海使波浪湧上來一樣。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Tyrus, and will cause many nations to come up against thee, as the sea causeth his waves to come up.

26:4    他們必破壞推羅的牆垣，拆毀她的城樓。我也要刮淨塵土，使她成為淨光的磐石。
And they shall destroy the walls of Tyrus, and break down her towers: I will also scrape her dust from her, and make her like the top of a rock.

26:5    她必在海中作晒網的地方，也必成為列國的擄物。這是主耶和華說的。
It shall be a place for the spreading of nets in the midst of the sea: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD: and it shall become a spoil to the nations.

26:6    屬推羅城邑的居民（原文作田間的眾女八節同）必被刀劍殺滅，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And her daughters which are in the field shall be slain by the sword; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

26:7    主耶和華如此說，我必使諸王之王的巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒率領馬匹車輛，馬兵，軍隊，和許多人民從北方來攻擊你推羅。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring upon Tyrus Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon, a king of kings, from the north, with horses, and with chariots, and with horsemen, and companies, and much people.

26:8    他必用刀劍殺滅屬你城邑的居民，也必造臺築壘舉盾牌攻擊你。
He shall slay with the sword thy daughters in the field: and he shall make a fort against thee, and cast a mount against thee, and lift up the buckler against thee.

26:9    他必安設撞城錘攻破你的牆垣，用鐵器拆毀你的城樓。
And he shall set engines of war against thy walls, and with his axes he shall break down thy towers.

26:10    因他的馬匹眾多，塵土揚起遮蔽你。他進入你的城門，好像人進入已有破口之城。那時，你的牆垣必因騎馬的和戰車，輜重車的響聲震動。
By reason of the abundance of his horses their dust shall cover thee: thy walls shall shake at the noise of the horsemen, and of the wheels, and of the chariots, when he shall enter into thy gates, as men enter into a city wherein is made a breach.

26:11    他的馬蹄必踐踏你一切的街道，他必用刀殺戮你的居民。你堅固的柱子（或作柱像）必倒在地上。
With the hoofs of his horses shall he tread down all thy streets: he shall slay thy people by the sword, and thy strong garrisons shall go down to the ground.

26:12    人必以你的財寶為擄物，以你的貨財為掠物，破壞你的牆垣，拆毀你華美的房屋，將你的石頭，木頭，塵土都拋在水中。
And they shall make a spoil of thy riches, and make a prey of thy merchandise: and they shall break down thy walls, and destroy thy pleasant houses: and they shall lay thy stones and thy timber and thy dust in the midst of the water.

26:13    我必使你唱歌的聲音止息，人也不再聽見你彈琴的聲音。
And I will cause the noise of thy songs to cease; and the sound of thy harps shall be no more heard.

26:14    我必使你成為淨光的磐石，作晒網的地方。你不得再被建造，因為這是主耶和華說的。
And I will make thee like the top of a rock: thou shalt be a place to spread nets upon; thou shalt be built no more: for I the LORD have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

26:15    主耶和華對推羅如此說，在你中間行殺戮，受傷之人唉哼的時候，因你傾倒的響聲，海島豈不都震動嗎。
Thus saith the Lord GOD to Tyrus; Shall not the isles shake at the sound of thy fall, when the wounded cry, when the slaughter is made in the midst of thee?

26:16    那時靠海的君王必都下位，除去朝服，脫下花衣，披上戰兢，坐在地上，時刻發抖，為你驚駭。
Then all the princes of the sea shall come down from their thrones, and lay away their robes, and put off their broidered garments: they shall clothe themselves with trembling; they shall sit upon the ground, and shall tremble at every moment, and be astonished at thee.

26:17    他們必為你作起哀歌說，你這有名之城，素為航海之人居住，在海上為最堅固的。平日你和居民使一切住在那裡的人無不驚恐。現在何竟毀滅了。
And they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and say to thee, How art thou destroyed, that wast inhabited of seafaring men, the renowned city, which wast strong in the sea, she and her inhabitants, which cause their terror to be on all that haunt it!

26:18    如今在你這傾覆的日子，海島都必戰兢。海中的群島見你歸於無有就都驚惶。
Now shall the isles tremble in the day of thy fall; yea, the isles that are in the sea shall be troubled at thy departure.

26:19    主耶和華如此說，推羅阿，我使你變為荒涼，如無人居住的城邑。又使深水漫過你，大水淹沒你。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall make thee a desolate city, like the cities that are not inhabited; when I shall bring up the deep upon thee, and great waters shall cover thee;

26:20    那時，我要叫你下入陰府，與古時的人一同在地的深處，久已荒涼之地居住，使你不再有居民。我也要在活人之地顯榮耀（我也云云或作在活人之地不再有榮耀）。
When I shall bring thee down with them that descend into the pit, with the people of old time, and shall set thee in the low parts of the earth, in places desolate of old, with them that go down to the pit, that thou be not inhabited; and I shall set glory in the land of the living;

26:21    我必叫你令人驚恐，不再存留於世。人雖尋梢你，卻永尋不見。這是主耶和華說的。
I will make thee a terror, and thou shalt be no more: though thou be sought for, yet shalt thou never be found again, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 27 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


27:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

27:2    人子阿，要為推羅作起哀歌，
Now, thou son of man, take up a lamentation for Tyrus;

27:3    說，你居住海口，是眾民的商埠。你的交易通到許多的海島。主耶和華如此說，推羅阿，你曾說，我是全然美麗的。
And say unto Tyrus, O thou that art situate at the entry of the sea, which art a merchant of the people for many isles, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O Tyrus, thou hast said, I am of perfect beauty.

27:4    你的境界在海中，造你的使你全然美麗。
Thy borders are in the midst of the seas, thy builders have perfected thy beauty.

27:5    他們用示尼珥的松樹作你的一切板，用黎巴嫩的香柏樹作桅杆，
They have made all thy ship boards of fir trees of Senir: they have taken cedars from Lebanon to make masts for thee.

27:6    用巴珊的橡樹作你的槳，用象牙鑲嵌基提海島的黃楊木為坐板（或作艙板）。
Of the oaks of Bashan have they made thine oars; the company of the Ashurites have made thy benches of ivory, brought out of the isles of Chittim.

27:7    你的篷帆是用埃及繡花細麻布作的，可以作你的大旗。你的涼棚是用以利沙島的藍色，紫色布作的。
Fine linen with broidered work from Egypt was that which thou spreadest forth to be thy sail; blue and purple from the isles of Elishah was that which covered thee.

27:8    西頓和亞發的居民作你蕩槳的。推羅阿，你中間的智慧人作掌舵的。
The inhabitants of Zidon and Arvad were thy mariners: thy wise men, O Tyrus, that were in thee, were thy pilots.

27:9    迦巴勒的老者和聰明人都在你中間作補縫的。一切泛海的船隻和水手都在你中間經營交易的事。
The ancients of Gebal and the wise men thereof were in thee thy calkers: all the ships of the sea with their mariners were in thee to occupy thy merchandise.

27:10    波斯人，路德人，弗人在你軍營中作戰士。他們在你中間懸掛盾牌和頭盔，彰顯你的尊榮。
They of Persia and of Lud and of Phut were in thine army, thy men of war: they hanged the shield and helmet in thee; they set forth thy comeliness.

27:11    亞發人和你的軍隊都在你四圍的牆上，你的望樓也有勇士。他們懸掛盾牌，成全你的美麗。
The men of Arvad with thine army were upon thy walls round about, and the Gammadims were in thy towers: they hanged their shields upon thy walls round about; they have made thy beauty perfect.

27:12    他施人因你多有各類的財物，就作你的客商，拿銀，鐵，錫，鉛兌換你的貨物。
Tarshish was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of all kind of riches; with silver, iron, tin, and lead, they traded in thy fairs.

27:13    雅完人，土巴人，米設人都與你交易。他們用人口和銅器兌換你的貨物。
Javan, Tubal, and Meshech, they were thy merchants: they traded the persons of men and vessels of brass in thy market.

27:14    陀迦瑪族用馬和戰馬並騾子兌換你的貨物。
They of the house of Togarmah traded in thy fairs with horses and horsemen and mules.

27:15    底但人與你交易，許多海島作你的碼頭。他們拿象牙，烏木與你兌換（或作進貢）。
The men of Dedan were thy merchants; many isles were the merchandise of thine hand: they brought thee for a present horns of ivory and ebony.

27:16    亞蘭人因你的工作很多，就作你的客商。他們用綠寶石，紫色布繡貨，細麻布，珊瑚，紅寶石兌換你的貨物。
Syria was thy merchant by reason of the multitude of the wares of thy making: they occupied in thy fairs with emeralds, purple, and broidered work, and fine linen, and coral, and agate.

27:17    猶大和以色列地的人都與你交易。他們用米匿的麥子，餅，蜜，油，乳香兌換你的貨物。
Judah, and the land of Israel, they were thy merchants: they traded in thy market wheat of Minnith, and Pannag, and honey, and oil, and balm.

27:18    大馬士革人因你的工作很多，又因你多有各類的財物，就拿黑本酒和白羊毛與你交易。
Damascus was thy merchant in the multitude of the wares of thy making, for the multitude of all riches; in the wine of Helbon, and white wool.

27:19    威但人和雅完人拿紡成的線，亮鐵，桂皮，菖蒲兌換你的貨物。
Dan also and Javan going to and fro occupied in thy fairs: bright iron, cassia, and calamus, were in thy market.

27:20    底但人用高貴的毯子，鞍，屜與你交易。
Dedan was thy merchant in precious clothes for chariots.

27:21    阿拉伯人和基達的一切首領都作你的客商，用羊羔，公綿羊，公山羊與你交易。
Arabia, and all the princes of Kedar, they occupied with thee in lambs, and rams, and goats: in these were they thy merchants.

27:22    示巴和拉瑪的商人與你交易，他們用各類上好的香料，各類的寶石，和黃金兌換你的貨物。
The merchants of Sheba and Raamah, they were thy merchants: they occupied in thy fairs with chief of all spices, and with all precious stones, and gold.

27:23    哈蘭人，幹尼人，伊甸傷，示巴的商人，和亞述人，基抹人與你交易。
Haran, and Canneh, and Eden, the merchants of Sheba, Asshur, and Chilmad, were thy merchants.

27:24    這些商人以美好的貨物包在繡花藍色包袱內，又有華麗的衣服裝在香柏木的箱子裡，用繩捆著與你交易。
These were thy merchants in all sorts of things, in blue clothes, and broidered work, and in chests of rich apparel, bound with cords, and made of cedar, among thy merchandise.

27:25    他施的船隻接連成幫為你運貨，你便在海中豐富極其榮華。
The ships of Tarshish did sing of thee in thy market: and thou wast replenished, and made very glorious in the midst of the seas.

27:26    蕩槳的已經把你盪到大水之處，東風在海中將你打破。
Thy rowers have brought thee into great waters: the east wind hath broken thee in the midst of the seas.

27:27    你的資財，物件，貨物，水手，掌舵的，補縫的，經營交易的，並你中間的戰士和人民，在你破壞的日子必都沉在海中。
Thy riches, and thy fairs, thy merchandise, thy mariners, and thy pilots, thy calkers, and the occupiers of thy merchandise, and all thy men of war, that are in thee, and in all thy company which is in the midst of thee, shall fall into the midst of the seas in the day of thy ruin.

27:28    你掌舵的呼號之聲一發，郊野都必震動。
The suburbs shall shake at the sound of the cry of thy pilots.

27:29    凡蕩槳的和水手，並一切泛海掌舵的，都必下船登岸。
And all that handle the oar, the mariners, and all the pilots of the sea, shall come down from their ships, they shall stand upon the land;

27:30    他們必為你放聲痛哭，把塵土撒在頭上，在灰中打滾。
And shall cause their voice to be heard against thee, and shall cry bitterly, and shall cast up dust upon their heads, they shall wallow themselves in the ashes:

27:31    又為你使頭上光禿，用麻布束腰，號？？痛哭，苦苦悲哀。
And they shall make themselves utterly bald for thee, and gird them with sackcloth, and they shall weep for thee with bitterness of heart and bitter wailing.

27:32    他們哀號的時候，為你作起哀歌哀哭，說，有何城如推羅。有何城如她在海中成為寂寞的呢。
And in their wailing they shall take up a lamentation for thee, and lament over thee, saying, What city is like Tyrus, like the destroyed in the midst of the sea?

27:33    你由海上運出貨物，就使許多國民充足。你以許多資財，貨物使地上的君王豐富。
When thy wares went forth out of the seas, thou filledst many people; thou didst enrich the kings of the earth with the multitude of thy riches and of thy merchandise.

27:34    你在深水中被海島打破的時候，你的貨物和你中間的一切人民，就都沉下去了。
In the time when thou shalt be broken by the seas in the depths of the waters thy merchandise and all thy company in the midst of thee shall fall.

27:35    海島的居民為你驚奇。他們的君王都甚恐慌，面帶愁容。
All the inhabitants of the isles shall be astonished at thee, and their kings shall be sore afraid, they shall be troubled in their countenance.

27:36    各國民中的客商都向你發嘶聲。你令人驚恐，不再存留於世，直到永遠。
The merchants among the people shall hiss at thee; thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt be any more.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 28 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


28:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

28:2    人子阿，你對推羅君王說，主耶和華如此說，因你心裡高傲，說，我是神。我在海中坐神之位。你雖然居心自比神，也不過是人，並不是神。
Son of man, say unto the prince of Tyrus, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thine heart is lifted up, and thou hast said, I am a God, I sit in the seat of God, in the midst of the seas; yet thou art a man, and not God, though thou set thine heart as the heart of God:

28:3    看哪，你比但以理更有智慧，什麼祕事都不能向你隱藏。
Behold, thou art wiser than Daniel; there is no secret that they can hide from thee:

28:4    你靠自己的智慧聰明得了金銀財寶，收入庫中。
With thy wisdom and with thine understanding thou hast gotten thee riches, and hast gotten gold and silver into thy treasures:

28:5    你靠自己的大智慧和貿易增添資財，又因資財心裡高傲。
By thy great wisdom and by thy traffick hast thou increased thy riches, and thine heart is lifted up because of thy riches:

28:6    所以主耶和華如此說，因你居心自比神，
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast set thine heart as the heart of God;



28:7    我必使外邦人，就是列國中的強暴人臨到你這裡。他們必拔刀砍壞你用智慧得來的美物，褻瀆你的榮光。
Behold, therefore I will bring strangers upon thee, the terrible of the nations: and they shall draw their swords against the beauty of thy wisdom, and they shall defile thy brightness.

28:8    他們必使你下坑。你必死在海中，與被殺的人一樣。
They shall bring thee down to the pit, and thou shalt die the deaths of them that are slain in the midst of the seas.

28:9    在殺你的人面前你還能說我是神嗎。其實你在殺害你的人手中，不過是人，並不是神。
Wilt thou yet say before him that slayeth thee, I am God? but thou shalt be a man, and no God, in the hand of him that slayeth thee.

28:10    你必死在外邦人手中，與未受割禮（或作不潔下同）的人一樣，因為這是主耶和華說的。
Thou shalt die the deaths of the uncircumcised by the hand of strangers: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

28:11    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

28:12    人子阿，你為推羅王作起哀歌，說主耶和華如此說，你無所不備，智慧充足，全然美麗。
Son of man, take up a lamentation upon the king of Tyrus, and say unto him, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Thou sealest up the sum, full of wisdom, and perfect in beauty.

28:13    你曾在伊甸神的園中，佩戴各樣寶石，就是紅寶石，紅璧璽，金鋼石，水蒼玉，紅瑪瑙，碧玉，藍寶石，綠寶石，紅玉，和黃金。又有精美的鼓笛在你那裡，都是在你受造之日預備齊全的。
Thou hast been in Eden the garden of God; every precious stone was thy covering, the sardius, topaz, and the diamond, the beryl, the onyx, and the jasper, the sapphire, the emerald, and the carbuncle, and gold: the workmanship of thy tabrets and of thy pipes was prepared in thee in the day that thou wast created.

28:14    你是那受膏遮掩約櫃的基路伯。我將你安置在神的聖山上。你在發光如火的寶石中間往來。
Thou art the anointed cherub that covereth; and I have set thee so: thou wast upon the holy mountain of God; thou hast walked up and down in the midst of the stones of fire.

28:15    你從受造之日所行的都完全，後來在你中間又察出不義。
Thou wast perfect in thy ways from the day that thou wast created, till iniquity was found in thee.

28:16    因你貿易很多，就被強暴的事充滿，以致犯罪，所以我因你褻瀆聖地，就從神的山驅逐你。遮掩約櫃的基路伯阿，我已將你從發光如火的寶石中除滅。
By the multitude of thy merchandise they have filled the midst of thee with violence, and thou hast sinned: therefore I will cast thee as profane out of the mountain of God: and I will destroy thee, O covering cherub, from the midst of the stones of fire.

28:17    你因美麗心中高傲，又因榮光敗壞智慧，我已將你摔倒在地，使你倒在君王面前，好叫他們目睹眼見。
Thine heart was lifted up because of thy beauty, thou hast corrupted thy wisdom by reason of thy brightness: I will cast thee to the ground, I will lay thee before kings, that they may behold thee.

28:18    你因罪孽眾多，貿易不公，就褻瀆你那裡的聖所。故此，我使火從你中間發出，燒滅你，使你在所有觀看的人眼前變為地上的爐灰。
Thou hast defiled thy sanctuaries by the multitude of thine iniquities, by the iniquity of thy traffick; therefore will I bring forth a fire from the midst of thee, it shall devour thee, and I will bring thee to ashes upon the earth in the sight of all them that behold thee.

28:19    各國民中，凡認識你的，都必為你驚奇。你令人驚恐，不再存留於世，直到永遠。
All they that know thee among the people shall be astonished at thee: thou shalt be a terror, and never shalt thou be any more.

28:20    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

28:21    人子阿，你要向西頓預言攻擊她，
Son of man, set thy face against Zidon, and prophesy against it,

28:22    說主耶和華如此說，西頓哪，我與你為敵，我必在你中間得榮耀。我在你中間施行審判，顯為聖的時候，人就知道我是耶和華。
And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Zidon; and I will be glorified in the midst of thee: and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall have executed judgments in her, and shall be sanctified in her.

28:23    我必使瘟疫進入西頓，使血流在她街上。被殺的必在其中仆倒，四圍有刀劍臨到她，人就知道我是耶和華。
For I will send into her pestilence, and blood into her streets; and the wounded shall be judged in the midst of her by the sword upon her on every side; and they shall know that I am the LORD.

28:24    四圍恨惡以色列家的人，必不再向他們作刺人的荊棘，傷人的蒺藜，人就知道我是主耶和華。
And there shall be no more a pricking brier unto the house of Israel, nor any grieving thorn of all that are round about them, that despised them; and they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

28:25    主耶和華如此說，我將分散在萬民中的以色列家招聚回來，向他們在列邦人眼前顯為聖的時候，他們就在我賜給我僕人雅各之地，仍然居住。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; When I shall have gathered the house of Israel from the people among whom they are scattered, and shall be sanctified in them in the sight of the heathen, then shall they dwell in their land that I have given to my servant Jacob.

28:26    他們要在這地上安然居住。我向四圍恨惡他們的眾人施行審判以後，他們要蓋造房屋，栽種葡萄園，安然居住，就知道我是耶和華他們的神。
And they shall dwell safely therein, and shall build houses, and plant vineyards; yea, they shall dwell with confidence, when I have executed judgments upon all those that despise them round about them; and they shall know that I am the LORD their God.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 29 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


29:1    第十年十月十二日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
In the tenth year, in the tenth month, in the twelfth day of the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

29:2    人子阿，你要向埃及王法老預言攻擊他和埃及全地，
Son of man, set thy face against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and prophesy against him, and against all Egypt:

29:3    說主耶和華如此說，埃及王法老阿，我與你這臥在自己河中的大魚為敵。你曾說，這河是我的，是我為自己造的。
Speak, and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, Pharaoh king of Egypt, the great dragon that lieth in the midst of his rivers, which hath said, My river is mine own, and I have made it for myself.

29:4    我耶和華必用鉤子鉤住你的腮頰，又使江河中的魚貼住你的鱗甲。我必將你和所有貼住你鱗甲的魚，從江河中拉上來，
But I will put hooks in thy jaws, and I will cause the fish of thy rivers to stick unto thy scales, and I will bring thee up out of the midst of thy rivers, and all the fish of thy rivers shall stick unto thy scales.

29:5    把你並江河中的魚都拋在曠野。你必倒在田間，不被收殮，不被掩埋。我已將你給地上野獸，空中飛鳥作食物。
And I will leave thee thrown into the wilderness, thee and all the fish of thy rivers: thou shalt fall upon the open fields; thou shalt not be brought together, nor gathered: I have given thee for meat to the beasts of the field and to the fowls of the heaven.

29:6    埃及一切的居民，因向以色列家成了蘆葦的杖，就知道我是耶和華。
And all the inhabitants of Egypt shall know that I am the LORD, because they have been a staff of reed to the house of Israel.

29:7    他們用手持住你，你就斷折，傷了他們的肩。他們倚靠你，你就斷折，閃了他們的腰。
When they took hold of thee by thy hand, thou didst break, and rend all their shoulder: and when they leaned upon thee, thou brakest, and madest all their loins to be at a stand.

29:8    所以主耶和華如此說，我必使刀劍臨到你，從你中間將人與牲畜剪除。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will bring a sword upon thee, and cut off man and beast out of thee.

29:9    埃及地必荒廢淒涼，他們就知道我是耶和華。因為法老說，這河是我的，是我所造的，
And the land of Egypt shall be desolate and waste; and they shall know that I am the LORD: because he hath said, The river is mine, and I have made it.

29:10    所以我必與你並你的江河為敵，使埃及地，從色弗尼塔直到古實境界，全然荒廢淒涼。
Behold, therefore I am against thee, and against thy rivers, and I will make the land of Egypt utterly waste and desolate, from the tower of Syene even unto the border of Ethiopia.

29:11    人的腳，獸的蹄都不經過，四十年之久並無人居住。
No foot of man shall pass through it, nor foot of beast shall pass through it, neither shall it be inhabited forty years.

29:12    我必使埃及地在荒涼的國中成為荒涼，使埃及城在荒廢的城中變為荒廢，共有四十年。我必將埃及人分散在列國，四散在列邦。
And I will make the land of Egypt desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate, and her cities among the cities that are laid waste shall be desolate forty years: and I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.

29:13    主耶和華如此說，滿了四十年，我必招聚分散在各國民中的埃及人。
Yet thus saith the Lord GOD; At the end of forty years will I gather the Egyptians from the people whither they were scattered:

29:14    我必叫埃及被擄的人回來，使他們歸回本地巴忒羅。在那裡必成為低微的國，
And I will bring again the captivity of Egypt, and will cause them to return into the land of Pathros, into the land of their habitation; and they shall be there a base kingdom.

29:15    必為列國中最低微的，也不再自高於列國之上。我必減少他們，以致不再轄制列國。
It shall be the basest of the kingdoms; neither shall it exalt itself any more above the nations: for I will diminish them, that they shall no more rule over the nations.

29:16    埃及必不再作以色列家所倚靠的。以色列家仰望埃及人的時候，便思念罪孽。他們就知道我是主耶和華。
And it shall be no more the confidence of the house of Israel, which bringeth their iniquity to remembrance, when they shall look after them: but they shall know that I am the Lord GOD.

29:17    二十七年正月初一日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And it came to pass in the seven and twentieth year, in the first month, in the first day of the month, the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

29:18    人子阿，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒使他的軍兵大大效勞，攻打推羅，以致頭都光禿，肩都磨破。然而他和他的軍兵攻打推羅，並沒有從那裡得什麼酬勞。
Son of man, Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon caused his army to serve a great service against Tyrus: every head was made bald, and every shoulder was peeled: yet had he no wages, nor his army, for Tyrus, for the service that he had served against it:

29:19    所以主耶和華如此說，我必將埃及地賜給巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒。他必擄掠埃及群眾，搶其中的財為擄物，奪其中的貨為掠物，這就可以作他軍兵的酬勞。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will give the land of Egypt unto Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon; and he shall take her multitude, and take her spoil, and take her prey; and it shall be the wages for his army.

29:20    我將埃及地賜給他，酬他所效的勞，因王與軍兵是為我勤勞。這是主耶和華說的。
I have given him the land of Egypt for his labour wherewith he served against it, because they wrought for me, saith the Lord GOD.

29:21    當那日，我必使以色列家的角發生，又必使你以西結在他們中間得以開口。他們就知道我是耶和華。
In that day will I cause the horn of the house of Israel to bud forth, and I will give thee the opening of the mouth in the midst of them; and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 30 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


30:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

30:2    人子阿，你要發預言說，主耶和華如此說，哀哉這日。你們應當哭號。
Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Howl ye, Woe worth the day!

30:3    因為耶和華的日子臨近，就是密雲之日，列國受罰之期。
For the day is near, even the day of the LORD is near, a cloudy day; it shall be the time of the heathen.

30:4    必有刀劍臨到埃及。在埃及被殺之人仆倒的時候，古實人就有痛苦，人民必被擄掠，基址必被拆毀。
And the sword shall come upon Egypt, and great pain shall be in Ethiopia, when the slain shall fall in Egypt, and they shall take away her multitude, and her foundations shall be broken down.

30:5    古實人，弗人（或作利比亞人），路德人，雜族的人民，並古巴人，以及同盟之地的人都要與埃及人一同倒在刀下。
Ethiopia, and Libya, and Lydia, and all the mingled people, and Chub, and the men of the land that is in league, shall fall with them by the sword.

30:6    耶和華如此說，扶助埃及的也必傾倒。埃及因勢力而有的驕傲必降低微。其中的人民，從色弗尼塔起（見二十九章十節）必倒在刀下。這是主耶和華說的。
Thus saith the LORD; They also that uphold Egypt shall fall; and the pride of her power shall come down: from the tower of Syene shall they fall in it by the sword, saith the Lord GOD.

30:7    埃及地在荒涼的國中必成為荒涼。埃及城在荒廢的城中也變為荒廢。
And they shall be desolate in the midst of the countries that are desolate, and her cities shall be in the midst of the cities that are wasted.

30:8    我在埃及中使火著起。幫助埃及的，都被滅絕。那時，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And they shall know that I am the LORD, when I have set a fire in Egypt, and when all her helpers shall be destroyed.

30:9    到那日，必有使者坐船，從我面前出去，使安逸無慮的古實人驚懼。必有痛苦臨到他們，好像埃及遭災的日子一樣。看哪，這事臨近了。
In that day shall messengers go forth from me in ships to make the careless Ethiopians afraid, and great pain shall come upon them, as in the day of Egypt: for, lo, it cometh.

30:10    主耶和華如此說，我必藉巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒的手，除滅埃及眾人。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also make the multitude of Egypt to cease by the hand of Nebuchadrezzar king of Babylon.

30:11    他和隨從他的人，就是列國中強暴的，必進來毀滅這地。他們必拔刀攻擊埃及，使遍地有被殺的人。
He and his people with him, the terrible of the nations, shall be brought to destroy the land: and they shall draw their swords against Egypt, and fill the land with the slain.

30:12    我必使江河乾涸，將地賣在惡人的手中。我必藉外邦人的手，使這地和其中所有的變為淒涼。這是我耶和華說的。
And I will make the rivers dry, and sell the land into the hand of the wicked: and I will make the land waste, and all that is therein, by the hand of strangers: I the LORD have spoken it.

30:13    主耶和華如此說，我必毀滅偶像，從挪弗除滅神像。必不再有君王出自埃及地。我要使埃及地的人懼怕。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will also destroy the idols, and I will cause their images to cease out of Noph; and there shall be no more a prince of the land of Egypt: and I will put a fear in the land of Egypt.

30:14    我必使巴忒羅荒涼，在瑣安中使火著起，向挪施行審判。
And I will make Pathros desolate, and will set fire in Zoan, and will execute judgments in No.

30:15    我必將我的忿怒倒在埃及的保障上，就是訓上，並要剪除挪的眾人。
And I will pour my fury upon Sin, the strength of Egypt; and I will cut off the multitude of No.

30:16    我必在埃及中使火著起。訓必大大痛苦。挪必被攻破。挪弗白日見仇敵（白日或作終日）。
And I will set fire in Egypt: Sin shall have great pain, and No shall be rent asunder, and Noph shall have distresses daily.

30:17    亞文和比伯實的少年人必倒在刀下。這些城的人必被擄掠。
The young men of Aven and of Pibeseth shall fall by the sword: and these cities shall go into captivity.

30:18    我在答比匿折斷埃及的諸軛，使她因勢力而有的驕傲在其中止息。那時，日光必退去。至於這城，必有密雲遮蔽，其中的女子必被擄掠。
At Tehaphnehes also the day shall be darkened, when I shall break there the yokes of Egypt: and the pomp of her strength shall cease in her: as for her, a cloud shall cover her, and her daughters shall go into captivity.

30:19    我必這樣向埃及施行審判，他們就知道我是耶和華。
Thus will I execute judgments in Egypt: and they shall know that I am the LORD.

30:20    十一年正月初七日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the first month, in the seventh day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

30:21    人子阿，我已打折埃及王法老的膀臂。沒有敷藥，也沒有用布纏好，使他有力持刀。
Son of man, I have broken the arm of Pharaoh king of Egypt; and, lo, it shall not be bound up to be healed, to put a roller to bind it, to make it strong to hold the sword.

30:22    所以主耶和華如此說，看哪，我與埃及王法老為敵，必將他有力的膀臂和已打折的膀臂全行打斷，使刀從他手中墜落。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against Pharaoh king of Egypt, and will break his arms, the strong, and that which was broken; and I will cause the sword to fall out of his hand.

30:23    我必將埃及人分散在列國，四散在列邦。
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and will disperse them through the countries.

30:24    我必使巴比倫王的膀臂有力，將我的刀交在他手中。卻要打斷法老的膀臂，他就在巴比倫王面前唉哼，如同受死傷的人一樣。
And I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and put my sword in his hand: but I will break Pharaoh's arms, and he shall groan before him with the groanings of a deadly wounded man.

30:25    我必扶持巴比倫王的膀臂，法老的膀臂卻要下垂。我將我的刀交在巴比倫王手中，他必舉刀攻擊埃及地，他們就知道我是耶和華。
But I will strengthen the arms of the king of Babylon, and the arms of Pharaoh shall fall down; and they shall know that I am the LORD, when I shall put my sword into the hand of the king of Babylon, and he shall stretch it out upon the land of Egypt.

30:26    我必將埃及人分散在列國，四散在列邦。他們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will scatter the Egyptians among the nations, and disperse them among the countries; and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 31 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


31:1    十一年三月初一日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And it came to pass in the eleventh year, in the third month, in the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

31:2    人子阿，你要向埃及王法老和他的眾人說，在威勢上誰能與你相比呢。
Son of man, speak unto Pharaoh king of Egypt, and to his multitude; Whom art thou like in thy greatness?

31:3    亞述王曾如黎巴嫩中的香柏樹，枝條榮美，影密如林，極其高大，樹尖插入雲中。
Behold, the Assyrian was a cedar in Lebanon with fair branches, and with a shadowing shroud, and of an high stature; and his top was among the thick boughs.

31:4    眾水使它生長。深水使它長大。所栽之地有江河圍流，汊出的水道延到田野諸樹。
The waters made him great, the deep set him up on high with her rivers running round about his plants, and sent out her little rivers unto all the trees of the field.

31:5    所以它高大超過田野諸樹。發旺的時候，枝子繁多，因得大水之力枝條長長。
Therefore his height was exalted above all the trees of the field, and his boughs were multiplied, and his branches became long because of the multitude of waters, when he shot forth.

31:6    空中的飛鳥都在枝子上搭窩。田野的走獸都在枝條下生子。所有大國的人民都在它蔭下居住。
All the fowls of heaven made their nests in his boughs, and under his branches did all the beasts of the field bring forth their young, and under his shadow dwelt all great nations.

31:7    樹大條長，成為榮美，因為根在眾水之旁。
Thus was he fair in his greatness, in the length of his branches: for his root was by great waters.

31:8    神園中的香柏樹不能遮蔽它。松樹不及它的枝子。楓樹不及它的枝條。神園中的樹都沒有它榮美。
The cedars in the garden of God could not hide him: the fir trees were not like his boughs, and the chestnut trees were not like his branches; nor any tree in the garden of God was like unto him in his beauty.

31:9    我使它的枝條蕃多，成為榮美，以致神伊甸園中的樹都嫉妒它。
I have made him fair by the multitude of his branches: so that all the trees of Eden, that were in the garden of God, envied him.

31:10    所以主耶和華如此說，因它高大，樹尖插入雲中，心驕氣傲，
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Because thou hast lifted up thyself in height, and he hath shot up his top among the thick boughs, and his heart is lifted up in his height;

31:11    我就必將它交給列國中大有威勢的人。他必定辦它。我因它的罪惡，已經驅逐它。
I have therefore delivered him into the hand of the mighty one of the heathen; he shall surely deal with him: I have driven him out for his wickedness.

31:12    外邦人，就是列邦中強暴的，將它砍斷棄掉。它的枝條落在山間和一切谷中，它的枝子折斷，落在地的一切河旁。地上的眾民已經走去，離開它的蔭下。
And strangers, the terrible of the nations, have cut him off, and have left him: upon the mountains and in all the valleys his branches are fallen, and his boughs are broken by all the rivers of the land; and all the people of the earth are gone down from his shadow, and have left him.

31:13    空中的飛鳥都要宿在這敗落的樹上，田野的走獸都要臥在它的枝條下，
Upon his ruin shall all the fowls of the heaven remain, and all the beasts of the field shall be upon his branches:

31:14    好使水旁的諸樹不因高大而自尊，也不將樹尖插入雲中，並且那些得水滋潤，有勢力的，也不得高大自立。因為它們在世人中，和下坑的人都被交與死亡，到陰府去了。
To the end that none of all the trees by the waters exalt themselves for their height, neither shoot up their top among the thick boughs, neither their trees stand up in their height, all that drink water: for they are all delivered unto death, to the nether parts of the earth, in the midst of the children of men, with them that go down to the pit.

31:15    主耶和華如此說，它下陰間的那日，我便使人悲哀。我為它遮蓋深淵，使江河凝結，大水停流。我也使黎巴嫩為它悽慘，田野的諸樹都因它發昏。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day when he went down to the grave I caused a mourning: I covered the deep for him, and I restrained the floods thereof, and the great waters were stayed: and I caused Lebanon to mourn for him, and all the trees of the field fainted for him.

31:16    我將它扔到陰間，與下坑的人一同下去。那時，列國聽見它墜落的響聲就都震動，並且伊甸的一切樹就是黎巴嫩得水滋潤，最佳最美的樹都在陰府受了安慰。
I made the nations to shake at the sound of his fall, when I cast him down to hell with them that descend into the pit: and all the trees of Eden, the choice and best of Lebanon, all that drink water, shall be comforted in the nether parts of the earth.

31:17    它們也與它同下陰間，到被殺的人那裡。它們曾作它的膀臂，在列國中它的蔭下居住。
They also went down into hell with him unto them that be slain with the sword; and they that were his arm, that dwelt under his shadow in the midst of the heathen.

31:18    在這樣榮耀威勢上，在伊甸園諸樹中，誰能與你相比呢。然而你要與伊甸的諸樹一同下到陰府，在未受割禮的人中，與被殺的人一同躺臥。法老和他的群眾乃是如此。這是主耶和華說的。
To whom art thou thus like in glory and in greatness among the trees of Eden? yet shalt thou be brought down with the trees of Eden unto the nether parts of the earth: thou shalt lie in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that be slain by the sword. This is Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 32 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


32:1    十二年十二月初一日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
And it came to pass in the twelfth year, in the twelfth month, in the first day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

32:2    人子阿，你要為埃及王法老作哀歌，說，從前你在列國中，如同少壯獅子。現在你卻像海中的大魚。你衝出江河，用爪攪動諸水，使江河渾濁。
Son of man, take up a lamentation for Pharaoh king of Egypt, and say unto him, Thou art like a young lion of the nations, and thou art as a whale in the seas: and thou camest forth with thy rivers, and troubledst the waters with thy feet, and fouledst their rivers.

32:3    主耶和華如此說，我必用多國的人民，將我的網撒在你身上，把你拉上來。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will therefore spread out my net over thee with a company of many people; and they shall bring thee up in my net.

32:4    我必將你丟在地上，拋在田野，使空中的飛鳥都落在你身上，使遍地的野獸吃你得飽。
Then will I leave thee upon the land, I will cast thee forth upon the open field, and will cause all the fowls of the heaven to remain upon thee, and I will fill the beasts of the whole earth with thee.

32:5    我必將你的肉丟在山間，用你高大的屍首填滿山谷。
And I will lay thy flesh upon the mountains, and fill the valleys with thy height.

32:6    我又必用你的血澆灌你所游泳之地，漫過山頂。河道都必充滿。
I will also water with thy blood the land wherein thou swimmest, even to the mountains; and the rivers shall be full of thee.

32:7    我將你撲滅的時候，要把天遮蔽，使眾星昏暗，以密雲遮掩太陽，月亮也不放光。
And when I shall put thee out, I will cover the heaven, and make the stars thereof dark; I will cover the sun with a cloud, and the moon shall not give her light.

32:8    我必使天上的亮光都在你以上變為昏暗，使你的地上黑暗。這是主耶和華說的。
All the bright lights of heaven will I make dark over thee, and set darkness upon thy land, saith the Lord GOD.

32:9    我使你敗亡的風聲傳到你所不認識的各國。那時，我必使多民的心因你愁煩。
I will also vex the hearts of many people, when I shall bring thy destruction among the nations, into the countries which thou hast not known.

32:10    我在許多國民和君王面前向你掄我的刀，國民就必因你驚奇，君王也必因你極其恐慌。在你仆倒的日子，他們各人為自己的性命時刻戰兢。
Yea, I will make many people amazed at thee, and their kings shall be horribly afraid for thee, when I shall brandish my sword before them; and they shall tremble at every moment, every man for his own life, in the day of thy fall.

32:11    主耶和華如此說，巴比倫王的刀必臨到你。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; The sword of the king of Babylon shall come upon thee.

32:12    我必藉勇士的刀使你的眾民仆倒。這勇士都是列國中強暴的。他們必使埃及的驕傲歸於無有。埃及的眾民必被滅絕。
By the swords of the mighty will I cause thy multitude to fall, the terrible of the nations, all of them: and they shall spoil the pomp of Egypt, and all the multitude thereof shall be destroyed.

32:13    我必從埃及多水旁除滅所有的走獸。人腳獸蹄必不再攪渾這水。
I will destroy also all the beasts thereof from beside the great waters; neither shall the foot of man trouble them any more, nor the hoofs of beasts trouble them.



32:14    那時，我必使埃及河澄清，江河像油緩流。這是主耶和華說的。
Then will I make their waters deep, and cause their rivers to run like oil, saith the Lord GOD.

32:15    我使埃及地變為荒廢淒涼。這地缺少從前所充滿的，又擊殺其中一切的居民。那時，他們就知道我是耶和華。
When I shall make the land of Egypt desolate, and the country shall be destitute of that whereof it was full, when I shall smite all them that dwell therein, then shall they know that I am the LORD.

32:16    人必用這哀歌去哀哭，列國的女子為埃及和她的群眾也必以此悲哀。這是主耶和華說的。
This is the lamentation wherewith they shall lament her: the daughters of the nations shall lament her: they shall lament for her, even for Egypt, and for all her multitude, saith the Lord GOD.

32:17    十二年十二月十五日，耶和華的話臨到我說，
It came to pass also in the twelfth year, in the fifteenth day of the month, that the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

32:18    人子阿，你要為埃及群眾哀號，又要將埃及和有名之國的女子，並下坑的人，一同扔到陰府去。
Son of man, wail for the multitude of Egypt, and cast them down, even her, and the daughters of the famous nations, unto the nether parts of the earth, with them that go down into the pit.

32:19    你埃及的美麗勝過誰呢。你下去與未受割禮的人一同躺臥吧。
Whom dost thou pass in beauty? go down, and be thou laid with the uncircumcised.

32:20    他們必在被殺的人中僕到。她被交給刀劍，要把她和她的群眾拉去。
They shall fall in the midst of them that are slain by the sword: she is delivered to the sword: draw her and all her multitudes.

32:21    強盛的勇士要在陰間對埃及王和幫助他的說話。他們是未受割禮被殺的人，已經下去，躺臥不動。
The strong among the mighty shall speak to him out of the midst of hell with them that help him: they are gone down, they lie uncircumcised, slain by the sword.

32:22    亞述和她的眾民都在那裡，她民的墳墓在她四圍。他們都是被殺倒在刀下的。
Asshur is there and all her company: his graves are about him: all of them slain, fallen by the sword:

32:23    他們的墳墓在坑中極深之處。她的眾民在她墳墓的四圍，都是被殺倒在刀下的。他們曾在活人之地使人驚恐。
Whose graves are set in the sides of the pit, and her company is round about her grave: all of them slain, fallen by the sword, which caused terror in the land of the living.

32:24    以攔也在那裡，她的群眾在她墳墓的四圍，都是被殺倒在刀下，未受割禮而下陰府的。他們曾在活人之地使人驚恐，並且與下坑的人一同擔當羞辱。
There is Elam and all her multitude round about her grave, all of them slain, fallen by the sword, which are gone down uncircumcised into the nether parts of the earth, which caused their terror in the land of the living; yet have they borne their shame with them that go down to the pit.

32:25    人給她和她的群眾在被殺的人中設立床榻。她民的墳墓在她四圍，他們都是未受割禮被刀殺的。他們曾在活人之地使人驚恐，並且與下坑的人一同擔當羞辱。以攔已經放在被殺的人中。
They have set her a bed in the midst of the slain with all her multitude: her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword: though their terror was caused in the land of the living, yet have they borne their shame with them that go down to the pit: he is put in the midst of them that be slain.

32:26    米設，土巴，和她們的群眾都在那裡。她民的墳墓在她四圍，他們都是未受割禮被刀殺的。他們曾在活人之地使人驚恐。
There is Meshech, Tubal, and all her multitude: her graves are round about him: all of them uncircumcised, slain by the sword, though they caused their terror in the land of the living.

32:27    他們不得與那未受割禮仆倒的勇士一同躺臥。這些勇士帶著兵器下陰間，頭枕刀劍，骨頭上有本身的罪孽。他們曾在活人之地使勇士驚恐。
And they shall not lie with the mighty that are fallen of the uncircumcised, which are gone down to hell with their weapons of war: and they have laid their swords under their heads, but their iniquities shall be upon their bones, though they were the terror of the mighty in the land of the living.

32:28    法老阿，你必在未受割禮的人中敗壞，與那些被殺的人一同躺臥。
Yea, thou shalt be broken in the midst of the uncircumcised, and shalt lie with them that are slain with the sword.

32:29    以東也在那裡。她君王和一切首領雖然仗著勢力，還是放在被殺的人中。他們必與未受割禮的和下坑的人一同躺臥。
There is Edom, her kings, and all her princes, which with their might are laid by them that were slain by the sword: they shall lie with the uncircumcised, and with them that go down to the pit.

32:30    在那裡有北方的眾王子和一切西頓人，都與被殺的人下去。他們雖然仗著勢力使人驚恐，還是蒙羞。他們未受割禮，和被刀殺的一同躺臥，與下坑的人一同擔當羞辱。
There be the princes of the north, all of them, and all the Zidonians, which are gone down with the slain; with their terror they are ashamed of their might; and they lie uncircumcised with them that be slain by the sword, and bear their shame with them that go down to the pit.

32:31    法老看見他們，便為他被殺的軍隊受安慰。這是主耶和華說的。
Pharaoh shall see them, and shall be comforted over all his multitude, even Pharaoh and all his army slain by the sword, saith the Lord GOD.

32:32    我任憑法老在活人之地使人驚恐，法老和他的群眾必放在未受割禮和被殺的人中。這是主耶和華說的。
For I have caused my terror in the land of the living: and he shall be laid in the midst of the uncircumcised with them that are slain with the sword, even Pharaoh and all his multitude, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 33 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


33:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

33:2    人子阿，你要告訴本國的子民說，我使刀劍臨到哪一國，那一國的民從他們中間選立一人為守望的。
Son of man, speak to the children of thy people, and say unto them, When I bring the sword upon a land, if the people of the land take a man of their coasts, and set him for their watchman:

33:3    他見刀劍臨到那地，若吹角警戒眾民，
If when he seeth the sword come upon the land, he blow the trumpet, and warn the people;

33:4    凡聽見角聲不受警戒的，刀劍若來除滅了他，他的罪（原文作血）就必歸到自己的頭上。
Then whosoever heareth the sound of the trumpet, and taketh not warning; if the sword come, and take him away, his blood shall be upon his own head.

33:5    他聽見角聲，不受警戒，他的罪必歸到自己的身上。他若受警戒，便是救了自己的性命。
He heard the sound of the trumpet, and took not warning; his blood shall be upon him. But he that taketh warning shall deliver his soul.

33:6    倘若守望的人見刀劍臨到，不吹角，以致民不受警戒，刀劍來殺了他們中間的一個人，他雖然死在罪孽之中，我卻要向守望的人討他喪命的罪（原文作血）。
But if the watchman see the sword come, and blow not the trumpet, and the people be not warned; if the sword come, and take any person from among them, he is taken away in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at the watchman's hand.

33:7    人子阿，我照樣立你作以色列家守望的人。所以你要聽我口中的話，替我警戒他們。
So thou, O son of man, I have set thee a watchman unto the house of Israel; therefore thou shalt hear the word at my mouth, and warn them from me.

33:8    我對惡人說，惡人哪，你必要死。你以西結若不開口警戒惡人，使他離開所行的道，這惡人必死在罪孽之中，我卻要向你討他喪命的罪（原文作血）。
When I say unto the wicked, O wicked man, thou shalt surely die; if thou dost not speak to warn the wicked from his way, that wicked man shall die in his iniquity; but his blood will I require at thine hand.

33:9    倘若你警戒惡人轉離所行的道，他仍不轉離，他必死在罪孽之中，你卻救自己脫離了罪。
Nevertheless, if thou warn the wicked of his way to turn from it; if he do not turn from his way, he shall die in his iniquity; but thou hast delivered thy soul.

33:10    人子阿，你要對以色列家說，你們常說，我們的過犯罪惡在我們身上，我們必因此消滅，怎能存活呢。
Therefore, O thou son of man, speak unto the house of Israel; Thus ye speak, saying, If our transgressions and our sins be upon us, and we pine away in them, how should we then live?

33:11    你對他們說，主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我斷不喜悅惡人死亡，惟喜悅惡人轉離所行的道而活。以色列家阿，你們轉回，轉回吧。離開惡道，何必死亡呢。
Say unto them, As I live, saith the Lord GOD, I have no pleasure in the death of the wicked; but that the wicked turn from his way and live: turn ye, turn ye from your evil ways; for why will ye die, O house of Israel?

33:12    人子阿，你要對本國的人民說，義人的義，在犯罪之日不能救他。至於惡人的惡，在他轉離惡行之日也不能使他傾倒。義人在犯罪之日也不能因他的義存活。
Therefore, thou son of man, say unto the children of thy people, The righteousness of the righteous shall not deliver him in the day of his transgression: as for the wickedness of the wicked, he shall not fall thereby in the day that he turneth from his wickedness; neither shall the righteous be able to live for his righteousness in the day that he sinneth.

33:13    我對義人說，你必定存活。他若倚靠他的義而作罪孽，他所行的義都不被記念。他必因所作的罪孽死亡。
When I shall say to the righteous, that he shall surely live; if he trust to his own righteousness, and commit iniquity, all his righteousnesses shall not be remembered; but for his iniquity that he hath committed, he shall die for it.

33:14    再者，我對惡人說，你必定死亡。他若轉離他的罪，行正直與合理的事，
Again, when I say unto the wicked, Thou shalt surely die; if he turn from his sin, and do that which is lawful and right;

33:15    還人的當頭和所搶奪的，遵行生命的律例，不作罪孽，他必定存活，不致死亡。
If the wicked restore the pledge, give again that he had robbed, walk in the statutes of life, without committing iniquity; he shall surely live, he shall not die.

33:16    他所犯的一切罪必不被記念。他行了正直與合理的事，必定存活。
None of his sins that he hath committed shall be mentioned unto him: he hath done that which is lawful and right; he shall surely live.

33:17    你本國的子民還說，主的道不公平。其實他們的道不公平。
Yet the children of thy people say, The way of the Lord is not equal: but as for them, their way is not equal.

33:18    義人轉離他的義而作罪孽，就必因此死亡。
When the righteous turneth from his righteousness, and committeth iniquity, he shall even die thereby.

33:19    惡人轉離他的惡，行正直與合理的事，就必因此存活。
But if the wicked turn from his wickedness, and do that which is lawful and right, he shall live thereby.

33:20    你們還說，主的道不公平。以色列家阿，我必按你們各人所行的審判你們。
Yet ye say, The way of the Lord is not equal. O ye house of Israel, I will judge you every one after his ways.

33:21    我們被擄之後十二年十月初五日，有人從耶路撒冷逃到我這裡，說，城已攻破。
And it came to pass in the twelfth year of our captivity, in the tenth month, in the fifth day of the month, that one that had escaped out of Jerusalem came unto me, saying, The city is smitten.

33:22    逃來的人未到前一日的晚上，耶和華的靈（原文作手）降在我身上，開我的口。到第二日早晨，那人來到我這裡，我口就開了，不再緘默。
Now the hand of the LORD was upon me in the evening, afore he that was escaped came; and had opened my mouth, until he came to me in the morning; and my mouth was opened, and I was no more dumb.

33:23    耶和華的話臨到我說，
Then the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

33:24    人子阿，住在以色列荒廢之地的人說，亞伯拉罕獨自一人能得這地為業，我們人數眾多，這地更是給我們為業的。
Son of man, they that inhabit those wastes of the land of Israel speak, saying, Abraham was one, and he inherited the land: but we are many; the land is given us for inheritance.

33:25    所以你要對他們說，主耶和華如此說，你們吃帶血的物，仰望偶像，並且殺人流血，你們還能得這地為業嗎。
Wherefore say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Ye eat with the blood, and lift up your eyes toward your idols, and shed blood: and shall ye possess the land?

33:26    你們倚仗自己的刀劍行可憎的事，人人玷汙鄰舍的妻，你們還能得這地為業嗎。
Ye stand upon your sword, ye work abomination, and ye defile every one his neighbour's wife: and shall ye possess the land?

33:27    你要對他們這樣說，主耶和華如此說，我指著我的永生起誓，在荒場中的，必倒在刀下。在田野間的，必交給野獸吞吃。在保障和洞裡的，必遭瘟疫而死。
Say thou thus unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; As I live, surely they that are in the wastes shall fall by the sword, and him that is in the open field will I give to the beasts to be devoured, and they that be in the forts and in the caves shall die of the pestilence.

33:28    我必使這地荒涼，令人驚駭。她因勢力而有的驕傲也必止息。以色列的山都必荒涼，無人經過。
For I will lay the land most desolate, and the pomp of her strength shall cease; and the mountains of Israel shall be desolate, that none shall pass through.

33:29    我因他們所行一切可憎的事使地荒涼，令人驚駭。那時，他們就知道我是耶和華。
Then shall they know that I am the LORD, when I have laid the land most desolate because of all their abominations which they have committed.

33:30    人子阿，你本國的子民在牆垣旁邊，在房屋門口談論你。弟兄對弟兄彼此說，來吧。聽聽有什麼話從耶和華而出。
Also, thou son of man, the children of thy people still are talking against thee by the walls and in the doors of the houses, and speak one to another, every one to his brother, saying, Come, I pray you, and hear what is the word that cometh forth from the LORD.

33:31    他們來到你這裡如同民來聚會，坐在你面前彷佛是我的民。他們聽你的話卻不去行。因為他們的口多顯愛情，心卻追隨財利。
And they come unto thee as the people cometh, and they sit before thee as my people, and they hear thy words, but they will not do them: for with their mouth they shew much love, but their heart goeth after their covetousness.

33:32    他們看你如善於奏樂，聲音幽雅之人所唱的雅歌，他們聽你的話卻不去行。
And, lo, thou art unto them as a very lovely song of one that hath a pleasant voice, and can play well on an instrument: for they hear thy words, but they do them not.

33:33    看哪，所說的快要應驗。應驗了，他們就知道在他們中間有了先知。
And when this cometh to pass, (lo, it will come,) then shall they know that a prophet hath been among them.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 34 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


34:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

34:2    人子阿，你要向以色列的牧人發預言，攻擊他們，說，主耶和華如此說，禍哉。以色列的牧人只知牧養自己。牧人豈不當牧養群羊嗎。
Son of man, prophesy against the shepherds of Israel, prophesy, and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD unto the shepherds; Woe be to the shepherds of Israel that do feed themselves! should not the shepherds feed the flocks?

34:3    你們吃脂油，穿羊毛，宰肥壯的，卻不牧養群羊。
Ye eat the fat, and ye clothe you with the wool, ye kill them that are fed: but ye feed not the flock.



34:4    瘦弱的，你們沒有養壯。有病的，你們沒有醫治。受傷的，你們沒有纏裹。被逐的，你們沒有領回。失喪的，你們沒有尋梢。但用強暴嚴嚴地轄制。
The diseased have ye not strengthened, neither have ye healed that which was sick, neither have ye bound up that which was broken, neither have ye brought again that which was driven away, neither have ye sought that which was lost; but with force and with cruelty have ye ruled them.

34:5    因無牧人，羊就分散。既分散，便作了一切野獸的食物。
And they were scattered, because there is no shepherd: and they became meat to all the beasts of the field, when they were scattered.

34:6    我的羊在諸山間，在各高岡上流離，在全地上分散，無人去尋，無人去找。
My sheep wandered through all the mountains, and upon every high hill: yea, my flock was scattered upon all the face of the earth, and none did search or seek after them.

34:7    所以，你們這些牧人要聽耶和華的話。
Therefore, ye shepherds, hear the word of the LORD;

34:8    主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我的羊因無牧人就成為掠物，也作了一切野獸的食物。我的牧人不尋梢我的羊。這些牧人只知牧養自己，並不牧養我的羊。
As I live, saith the Lord GOD, surely because my flock became a prey, and my flock became meat to every beast of the field, because there was no shepherd, neither did my shepherds search for my flock, but the shepherds fed themselves, and fed not my flock;

34:9    所以你們這些牧人要聽耶和華的話。
Therefore, O ye shepherds, hear the word of the LORD;

34:10    主耶和華如此說，我必與牧人為敵，必向他們的手追討我的羊，使他們不再牧放群羊。牧人也不再牧養自己。我必救我的羊脫離他們的口，不再作他們的食物。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against the shepherds; and I will require my flock at their hand, and cause them to cease from feeding the flock; neither shall the shepherds feed themselves any more; for I will deliver my flock from their mouth, that they may not be meat for them.

34:11    主耶和華如此說，看哪，我必親自尋梢我的羊，將它們尋見。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I, even I, will both search my sheep, and seek them out.

34:12    牧人在羊群四散的日子怎樣尋梢他的羊，我必照樣尋梢我的羊。這些羊在密雲黑暗的日子散到各處，我必從那裡救回它們來。
As a shepherd seeketh out his flock in the day that he is among his sheep that are scattered; so will I seek out my sheep, and will deliver them out of all places where they have been scattered in the cloudy and dark day.

34:13    我必從萬民中領出它們，從各國內聚集它們，引導它們歸回故土，也必在以色列山上一切溪水旁邊，境內一切可居之處牧養它們。
And I will bring them out from the people, and gather them from the countries, and will bring them to their own land, and feed them upon the mountains of Israel by the rivers, and in all the inhabited places of the country.

34:14    我必在美好的草場牧養它們。它們的圈必在以色列高處的山上，它們必在佳美之圈中躺臥，也在以色列山肥美的草場吃草。
I will feed them in a good pasture, and upon the high mountains of Israel shall their fold be: there shall they lie in a good fold, and in a fat pasture shall they feed upon the mountains of Israel.

34:15    主耶和華說，我必親自作我羊的牧人，使它們得以躺臥。
I will feed my flock, and I will cause them to lie down, saith the Lord GOD.

34:16    失喪的，我必尋梢。被逐的，我必領回。受傷的，我必纏裹。有病的，我必醫治。只是肥的壯的，我必除滅，也要秉公牧養它們。
I will seek that which was lost, and bring again that which was driven away, and will bind up that which was broken, and will strengthen that which was sick: but I will destroy the fat and the strong; I will feed them with judgment.

34:17    我的羊群哪，論到你們，主耶和華如此說，我必在羊與羊中間，公綿羊與公山羊中間施行判斷。
And as for you, O my flock, thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I judge between cattle and cattle, between the rams and the he goats.

34:18    你們這些肥壯的羊，在美好的草場吃草還以為小事嗎。剩下的草，你們竟用蹄踐踏了。你們喝清水，剩下的水，你們竟用蹄攪渾了。
Seemeth it a small thing unto you to have eaten up the good pasture, but ye must tread down with your feet the residue of your pastures? and to have drunk of the deep waters, but ye must foul the residue with your feet?

34:19    至於我的羊，只得吃你們所踐踏的，喝你們所攪渾的。
And as for my flock, they eat that which ye have trodden with your feet; and they drink that which ye have fouled with your feet.

34:20    所以，主耶和華如此說，我必在肥羊和瘦羊中間施行判斷。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD unto them; Behold, I, even I, will judge between the fat cattle and between the lean cattle.

34:21    因為你們用脅用肩擁擠一切瘦弱的，又用角牴觸，以致使它們四散。
Because ye have thrust with side and with shoulder, and pushed all the diseased with your horns, till ye have scattered them abroad;

34:22    所以，我必拯救我的群羊不再作掠物。我也必在羊和羊中間施行判斷。
Therefore will I save my flock, and they shall no more be a prey; and I will judge between cattle and cattle.

34:23    我必立一牧人照管他們，牧養他們，就是我的僕人大衛。他必牧養他們，作他們的牧人。
And I will set up one shepherd over them, and he shall feed them, even my servant David; he shall feed them, and he shall be their shepherd.

34:24    我耶和華必作他們的神，我的僕人大衛必在他們中間作王。這是耶和華說的。
And I the LORD will be their God, and my servant David a prince among them; I the LORD have spoken it.

34:25    我必與他們立平安的約，使惡獸從境內斷絕，他們就必安居在曠野，躺臥在林中。
And I will make with them a covenant of peace, and will cause the evil beasts to cease out of the land: and they shall dwell safely in the wilderness, and sleep in the woods.

34:26    我必使他們與我山的四圍成為福源，我也必叫時雨落下，必有福如甘霖而降。
And I will make them and the places round about my hill a blessing; and I will cause the shower to come down in his season; there shall be showers of blessing.

34:27    田野的樹必結果，地也必有出產。他們必在故土安然居住。我折斷他們所負的軛，救他們脫離那以他們為奴之人的手。那時，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And the tree of the field shall yield her fruit, and the earth shall yield her increase, and they shall be safe in their land, and shall know that I am the LORD, when I have broken the bands of their yoke, and delivered them out of the hand of those that served themselves of them.

34:28    他們必不再作外邦人的掠物，地上的野獸也不再吞吃他們。卻要安然居住，無人驚嚇。
And they shall no more be a prey to the heathen, neither shall the beast of the land devour them; but they shall dwell safely, and none shall make them afraid.

34:29    我必給他們興起有名的植物。他們在境內不再為饑荒所滅，也不再受外邦人的羞辱，
And I will raise up for them a plant of renown, and they shall be no more consumed with hunger in the land, neither bear the shame of the heathen any more.

34:30    必知道我，耶和華他們的神是與他們同在的，並知道他們以色列家是我的民。這是主耶和華說的。
Thus shall they know that I the LORD their God am with them, and that they, even the house of Israel, are my people, saith the Lord GOD.

34:31    你們作我的羊，我草場上的羊，乃是以色列人，我也是你們的神。這是主耶和華說的。
And ye my flock, the flock of my pasture, are men, and I am your God, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 35 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


35:1    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

35:2    人子阿，你要面向西珥山發預言，攻擊它，
Son of man, set thy face against mount Seir, and prophesy against it,

35:3    對它說，主耶和華如此說，西珥山哪，我與你為敵，必向你伸手攻擊你，使你荒涼，令人驚駭。
And say unto it, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, O mount Seir, I am against thee, and I will stretch out mine hand against thee, and I will make thee most desolate.

35:4    我必使你的城邑變為荒場，成為淒涼。你就知道我是耶和華。
I will lay thy cities waste, and thou shalt be desolate, and thou shalt know that I am the LORD.

35:5    因為你永懷仇恨，在以色列人遭災，罪孽到了盡頭的時候，將他們交與刀劍，
Because thou hast had a perpetual hatred, and hast shed the blood of the children of Israel by the force of the sword in the time of their calamity, in the time that their iniquity had an end:

35:6    所以主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我必使你遭遇流血的報應，罪（原文作血本節同）必追趕你。你既不恨惡殺人流血，所以這罪必追趕你。
Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will prepare thee unto blood, and blood shall pursue thee: sith thou hast not hated blood, even blood shall pursue thee.

35:7    我必使西珥山荒涼，令人驚駭，來往經過的人我必剪除。
Thus will I make mount Seir most desolate, and cut off from it him that passeth out and him that returneth.

35:8    我必使西珥山滿有被殺的人。被刀殺的，必倒在你小山和山谷，並一切的溪水中。
And I will fill his mountains with his slain men: in thy hills, and in thy valleys, and in all thy rivers, shall they fall that are slain with the sword.

35:9    我必使你永遠荒涼，使你的城邑無人居住，你的民就知道我是耶和華。
I will make thee perpetual desolations, and thy cities shall not return: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

35:10    因為你曾說，這二國這二邦必歸於我，我必得為業。（其實耶和華仍在那裡）
Because thou hast said, These two nations and these two countries shall be mine, and we will possess it; whereas the LORD was there:

35:11    所以主耶和華說，我指著我的永生起誓，我必照你的怒氣和你從仇恨中向他們所發的嫉妒待你。我審判你的時候，必將自己顯明在他們中間。
Therefore, as I live, saith the Lord GOD, I will even do according to thine anger, and according to thine envy which thou hast used out of thy hatred against them; and I will make myself known among them, when I have judged thee.

35:12    你也必知道我耶和華聽見了你的一切毀謗，就是你攻擊以色列山的話，說，這些山荒涼，是歸我們吞滅的。
And thou shalt know that I am the LORD, and that I have heard all thy blasphemies which thou hast spoken against the mountains of Israel, saying, They are laid desolate, they are given us to consume.

35:13    你們也用口向我誇大，增添與我反對的話，我都聽見了。
Thus with your mouth ye have boasted against me, and have multiplied your words against me: I have heard them.

35:14    主耶和華如此說，全地歡樂的時候，我必使你荒涼。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; When the whole earth rejoiceth, I will make thee desolate.

35:15    你怎樣因以色列家的地業荒涼而喜樂，我必照你所行的待你。西珥山哪，你和以東全地必都荒涼。你們就知道我是耶和華。
As thou didst rejoice at the inheritance of the house of Israel, because it was desolate, so will I do unto thee: thou shalt be desolate, O mount Seir, and all Idumea, even all of it: and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 36 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


36:1    人子阿，你要對以色列山發預言說，以色列山哪，要聽耶和華的話。
Also, thou son of man, prophesy unto the mountains of Israel, and say, Ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the LORD:

36:2    主耶和華如此說，因仇敵說，阿哈。這永久的山岡都歸我們為業了。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because the enemy hath said against you, Aha, even the ancient high places are ours in possession:

36:3    所以要發預言說，主耶和華如此說，因為敵人使你荒涼，四圍吞吃，好叫你歸與其餘的外邦人為業，並且多嘴多舌的人提起你來，百姓也說你有臭名。
Therefore prophesy and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they have made you desolate, and swallowed you up on every side, that ye might be a possession unto the residue of the heathen, and ye are taken up in the lips of talkers, and are an infamy of the people:

36:4    故此，以色列山要聽主耶和華的話。大山小岡，水溝山谷，荒廢之地，被棄之城，為四圍其餘的外邦人所佔據，所譏刺的，
Therefore, ye mountains of Israel, hear the word of the Lord GOD; Thus saith the Lord GOD to the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys, to the desolate wastes, and to the cities that are forsaken, which became a prey and derision to the residue of the heathen that are round about;

36:5    主耶和華對你們如此說，我真發憤恨如火，責備那其餘的外邦人和以東的眾人。他們快樂滿懷，心存恨惡，將我的地歸自己為業，又看為被棄的掠物。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Surely in the fire of my jealousy have I spoken against the residue of the heathen, and against all Idumea, which have appointed my land into their possession with the joy of all their heart, with despiteful minds, to cast it out for a prey.

36:6    所以，你要指著以色列地說預言，對大山小岡，水溝山谷說，主耶和華如此說，我發憤恨和忿怒說，因你們曾受外邦人的羞辱，
Prophesy therefore concerning the land of Israel, and say unto the mountains, and to the hills, to the rivers, and to the valleys, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I have spoken in my jealousy and in my fury, because ye have borne the shame of the heathen:

36:7    所以我起誓說，你們四圍的外邦人總要擔當自己的羞辱。這是主耶和華說的。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; I have lifted up mine hand, Surely the heathen that are about you, they shall bear their shame.

36:8    以色列山哪，你必發枝條，為我的民以色列結果子，因為他們快要來到。
But ye, O mountains of Israel, ye shall shoot forth your branches, and yield your fruit to my people of Israel; for they are at hand to come.

36:9    看哪，我是幫助你的，也必向你轉意，使你得以耕種。
For, behold, I am for you, and I will turn unto you, and ye shall be tilled and sown:

36:10    我必使以色列全家的人數在你上面增多，城邑有人居住，荒場再被建造。
And I will multiply men upon you, all the house of Israel, even all of it: and the cities shall be inhabited, and the wastes shall be builded:

36:11    我必使人和牲畜在你上面加增。他們必生養眾多。我要使你照舊有人居住，並要賜福與你比先前更多，你就知道我是耶和華。
And I will multiply upon you man and beast; and they shall increase and bring fruit: and I will settle you after your old estates, and will do better unto you than at your beginnings: and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

36:12    我必使人，就是我的民以色列，行在你上面。他們必得你為業。你也不再使他們喪子。
Yea, I will cause men to walk upon you, even my people Israel; and they shall possess thee, and thou shalt be their inheritance, and thou shalt no more henceforth bereave them of men.

36:13    主耶和華如此說，因為人對你說，你是吞吃人的，又使國民喪子。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Because they say unto you, Thou land devourest up men, and hast bereaved thy nations;

36:14    所以主耶和華說，你必不再吞吃人，也不再使國民喪子。
Therefore thou shalt devour men no more, neither bereave thy nations any more, saith the Lord GOD.

36:15    我使你不在聽見各國的羞辱，不再受萬民的辱罵，也不再使國民絆跌。這是主耶和華說的。
Neither will I cause men to hear in thee the shame of the heathen any more, neither shalt thou bear the reproach of the people any more, neither shalt thou cause thy nations to fall any more, saith the Lord GOD.

36:16    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

36:17    人子阿。以色列家住在本地的時候，在行動作為上玷汙那地。他們的行為在我面前，好像正在經期的婦人那樣汙穢。
Son of man, when the house of Israel dwelt in their own land, they defiled it by their own way and by their doings: their way was before me as the uncleanness of a removed woman.

36:18    所以我因他們在那地上流人的血，又因他們以偶像玷汙那地，就把我的忿怒傾在他們身上。
Wherefore I poured my fury upon them for the blood that they had shed upon the land, and for their idols wherewith they had polluted it:

36:19    我將他們分散在列國，四散在列邦，按他們的行動作為懲罰他們。
And I scattered them among the heathen, and they were dispersed through the countries: according to their way and according to their doings I judged them.

36:20    他們到了所去的列國，就使我的聖名被褻瀆。因為人談論他們說，這是耶和華的民，是從耶和華的地出來的。
And when they entered unto the heathen, whither they went, they profaned my holy name, when they said to them, These are the people of the LORD, and are gone forth out of his land.

36:21    我卻顧惜我的聖名，就是以色列家在所到的列國中所褻瀆的。
But I had pity for mine holy name, which the house of Israel had profaned among the heathen, whither they went.

36:22    所以，你要對以色列家說，主耶和華如此說，以色列家阿，我行這事不是為你們，乃是為我的聖名，就是在你們到的列國中所褻瀆的。
Therefore say unto the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; I do not this for your sakes, O house of Israel, but for mine holy name's sake, which ye have profaned among the heathen, whither ye went.

36:23    我要使我的大名顯為聖。這名在列國中已被褻瀆，就是你們在他們中間所褻瀆的。我在他們眼前，在你們身上顯為聖的時候，他們就知道我是耶和華。這是主耶和華說的。
And I will sanctify my great name, which was profaned among the heathen, which ye have profaned in the midst of them; and the heathen shall know that I am the LORD, saith the Lord GOD, when I shall be sanctified in you before their eyes.

36:24    我必從各國收取你們，從列邦聚集你們，引導你們歸回本地。
For I will take you from among the heathen, and gather you out of all countries, and will bring you into your own land.

36:25    我必用清水灑在你們身上，你們就潔淨了。我要潔淨你們，使你們脫離一切的汙穢，棄掉一切的偶像。
Then will I sprinkle clean water upon you, and ye shall be clean: from all your filthiness, and from all your idols, will I cleanse you.

36:26    我也要賜給你們一個新心，將新靈放在你們裡面，又從你們的肉體中除掉石心，賜給你們肉心。
A new heart also will I give you, and a new spirit will I put within you: and I will take away the stony heart out of your flesh, and I will give you an heart of flesh.

36:27    我必將我的靈放在你們裡面，使你們順從我的律例，謹守遵行我的典章。
And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and ye shall keep my judgments, and do them.

36:28    你們必住在我所賜給你們列祖之地。你們要作我的子民，我要作你們的神。
And ye shall dwell in the land that I gave to your fathers; and ye shall be my people, and I will be your God.

36:29    我必救你們脫離一切的汙穢，也必命五穀豐登，不使你們遭遇饑荒。
I will also save you from all your uncleannesses: and I will call for the corn, and will increase it, and lay no famine upon you.

36:30    我必使樹木多結果子，田地多出土產，好叫你們不再因饑荒受外邦人的譏誚。
And I will multiply the fruit of the tree, and the increase of the field, that ye shall receive no more reproach of famine among the heathen.

36:31    那時，你們必追想你們的惡行和你們不善的作為，就因你們的罪孽和可憎的事厭惡自己。
Then shall ye remember your own evil ways, and your doings that were not good, and shall lothe yourselves in your own sight for your iniquities and for your abominations.

36:32    主耶和華說，你們要知道，我這樣行不是為你們。以色列家阿，當為自己的行為抱愧蒙羞。
Not for your sakes do I this, saith the Lord GOD, be it known unto you: be ashamed and confounded for your own ways, O house of Israel.

36:33    主耶和華如此說，我潔淨你們，使你們脫離一切罪孽的日子，必使城邑有人居住，荒場再被建造。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the day that I shall have cleansed you from all your iniquities I will also cause you to dwell in the cities, and the wastes shall be builded.

36:34    過路的人雖看為荒廢之地，現今這荒廢之地仍得耕種。
And the desolate land shall be tilled, whereas it lay desolate in the sight of all that passed by.

36:35    他們必說，這先前為荒廢之地，現在成如伊甸園。這荒廢淒涼，毀壞的城邑現在堅固有人居住。
And they shall say, This land that was desolate is become like the garden of Eden; and the waste and desolate and ruined cities are become fenced, and are inhabited.

36:36    那時，在你們四圍其餘的外邦人必知道我耶和華修造那毀壞之處，培植那荒廢之地。我耶和華說過，也必成就。
Then the heathen that are left round about you shall know that I the LORD build the ruined places, and plant that that was desolate: I the LORD have spoken it, and I will do it.

36:37    主耶和華如此說，我要加增以色列家的人數，多如羊群。他們必為這事向我求問，我要給他們成就。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; I will yet for this be enquired of by the house of Israel, to do it for them; I will increase them with men like a flock.

36:38    耶路撒冷在守節作祭物所獻的羊群怎樣多，照樣，荒涼的城邑必被人群充滿。他們就知道我是耶和華。
As the holy flock, as the flock of Jerusalem in her solemn feasts; so shall the waste cities be filled with flocks of men: and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 37 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


37:1    耶和華的靈（原文作手）降在我身上。耶和華藉他的靈帶我出去，將我放在平原中。這平原遍滿骸骨。
The hand of the LORD was upon me, and carried me out in the spirit of the LORD, and set me down in the midst of the valley which was full of bones,

37:2    他使我從骸骨的四圍經過，誰知在平原的骸骨甚多，而且極其枯乾。
And caused me to pass by them round about: and, behold, there were very many in the open valley; and, lo, they were very dry.

37:3    他對我說，人子阿，這些骸骨能復活嗎。我說，主耶和華阿，你是知道的。
And he said unto me, Son of man, can these bones live? And I answered, O Lord GOD, thou knowest.

37:4    他又對我說，你向這些骸骨發預言說，枯乾的骸骨阿，要聽耶和華的話。
Again he said unto me, Prophesy upon these bones, and say unto them, O ye dry bones, hear the word of the LORD.

37:5    主耶和華對這些骸骨如此說，我必使氣息進入你們裡面，你們就要活了。
Thus saith the Lord GOD unto these bones; Behold, I will cause breath to enter into you, and ye shall live:

37:6    我必給你們加上筋，使你們長肉，又將皮遮蔽你們，使氣息進入你們裡面，你們就要活了。你們便知道我是耶和華。
And I will lay sinews upon you, and will bring up flesh upon you, and cover you with skin, and put breath in you, and ye shall live; and ye shall know that I am the LORD.

37:7    於是，我遵命說預言。正說預言的時候，不料，有響聲，有地震。骨與骨互相聯絡。
So I prophesied as I was commanded: and as I prophesied, there was a noise, and behold a shaking, and the bones came together, bone to his bone.

37:8    我觀看，見骸骨上有筋，也長了肉，又有皮遮蔽其上，只是還沒有氣息。
And when I beheld, lo, the sinews and the flesh came up upon them, and the skin covered them above: but there was no breath in them.

37:9    主對我說，人子阿，你要發預言，向風發預言，說主耶和華如此說，氣息阿，要從四方（方原文作風）而來，吹在這些被殺的人身上，使他們活了。
Then said he unto me, Prophesy unto the wind, prophesy, son of man, and say to the wind, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Come from the four winds, O breath, and breathe upon these slain, that they may live.

37:10    於是我遵命說預言，氣息就進入骸骨，骸骨便活了，並且站起來，成為極大的軍隊。
So I prophesied as he commanded me, and the breath came into them, and they lived, and stood up upon their feet, an exceeding great army.

37:11    主對我說，人子阿，這些骸骨就是以色列全家。他們說，我們的骨頭枯乾了，我們的指望失去了，我們滅絕淨盡了。
Then he said unto me, Son of man, these bones are the whole house of Israel: behold, they say, Our bones are dried, and our hope is lost: we are cut off for our parts.

37:12    所以你要發預言對他們說，主耶和華如此說，我的民哪，我必開你們的墳墓，使你們從墳墓中出來，領你們進入以色列地。
Therefore prophesy and say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, O my people, I will open your graves, and cause you to come up out of your graves, and bring you into the land of Israel.

37:13    我的民哪，我開你們的墳墓，使你們從墳墓中出來，你們就知道我是耶和華。
And ye shall know that I am the LORD, when I have opened your graves, O my people, and brought you up out of your graves,

37:14    我必將我的靈放在你們裡面，你們就要活了。我將你們安置在本地，你們就知道我耶和華如此說，也如此成就了。這是耶和華說的。
And shall put my spirit in you, and ye shall live, and I shall place you in your own land: then shall ye know that I the LORD have spoken it, and performed it, saith the LORD.

37:15    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
The word of the LORD came again unto me, saying,

37:16    人子阿，你要取一根木杖，在其上寫為猶大和他的同伴以色列人。又取一根木杖，在其上寫為約瑟，就是為以法蓮，又為他的同伴以色列全家。
Moreover, thou son of man, take thee one stick, and write upon it, For Judah, and for the children of Israel his companions: then take another stick, and write upon it, For Joseph, the stick of Ephraim, and for all the house of Israel his companions:

37:17    你要使這兩根木杖接連為一，在你手中成為一根。
And join them one to another into one stick; and they shall become one in thine hand.

37:18    你本國的子民問你說，這是什麼意思。你不指示我們嗎。
And when the children of thy people shall speak unto thee, saying, Wilt thou not shew us what thou meanest by these?

37:19    你就對他們說，主耶和華如此說，我要將約瑟和他同伴以色列支派的杖，就是那在以法蓮手中的，與猶大的杖一同接連為一，在我手中成為一根。
Say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take the stick of Joseph, which is in the hand of Ephraim, and the tribes of Israel his fellows, and will put them with him, even with the stick of Judah, and make them one stick, and they shall be one in mine hand.

37:20    你所寫的那兩根杖要在他們眼前拿在手中，
And the sticks whereon thou writest shall be in thine hand before their eyes.

37:21    要對他們說，主耶和華如此說，我要將以色列人從他們所到的各國收取，又從四圍聚集他們，引導他們歸回本地。
And say unto them, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I will take the children of Israel from among the heathen, whither they be gone, and will gather them on every side, and bring them into their own land:

37:22    我要使他們在那地，在以色列山上成為一國，有一王作他們眾民的王。他們不再為二國，決不再分為二國。
And I will make them one nation in the land upon the mountains of Israel; and one king shall be king to them all: and they shall be no more two nations, neither shall they be divided into two kingdoms any more at all:

37:23    也不再因偶像和可憎的物，並一切的罪過玷汙自己。我卻要救他們出離一切的住處，就是他們犯罪的地方。我要潔淨他們，如此，他們要作我的子民，我要作他們的神。
Neither shall they defile themselves any more with their idols, nor with their detestable things, nor with any of their transgressions: but I will save them out of all their dwellingplaces, wherein they have sinned, and will cleanse them: so shall they be my people, and I will be their God.

37:24    我的僕人大衛必作他們的王。眾民必歸一個牧人。他們必順從我的典章，謹守遵行我的律例。
And David my servant shall be king over them; and they all shall have one shepherd: they shall also walk in my judgments, and observe my statutes, and do them.

37:25    他們必住在我賜給我僕人雅各的地上，就是你們列祖所住之地。他們和他們的子孫，並子孫的子孫，都永遠住在那裡。我的僕人大衛必作他們的王，直到永遠。
And they shall dwell in the land that I have given unto Jacob my servant, wherein your fathers have dwelt; and they shall dwell therein, even they, and their children, and their children's children for ever: and my servant David shall be their prince for ever.

37:26    並且我要與他們立平安的約，作為永約。我也要將他們安置在本地，使他們的人數增多，又在他們中間設立我的聖所，直到永遠。
Moreover I will make a covenant of peace with them; it shall be an everlasting covenant with them: and I will place them, and multiply them, and will set my sanctuary in the midst of them for evermore.

37:27    我的居所必在他們中間。我要作他們的神，他們要作我的子民。
My tabernacle also shall be with them: yea, I will be their God, and they shall be my people.

37:28    我的聖所在以色列人中間直到永遠，外邦人就必知道我是叫以色列成為聖的耶和華。
And the heathen shall know that I the LORD do sanctify Israel, when my sanctuary shall be in the midst of them for evermore.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 38 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


38:1    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

38:2    人子阿，你要面向瑪各地的歌革，就是羅施，米設，土巴的王發預言攻擊他，
Son of man, set thy face against Gog, the land of Magog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal, and prophesy against him,

38:3    說主耶和華如此說，羅施，米設，土巴的王歌革阿，我與你為敵。
And say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal:

38:4    我必用鉤子鉤住你的腮頰，調轉你，將你和你的軍兵，馬匹，馬兵帶出來，都披掛整齊，成了大隊，有大小盾牌，各拿刀劍。
And I will turn thee back, and put hooks into thy jaws, and I will bring thee forth, and all thine army, horses and horsemen, all of them clothed with all sorts of armour, even a great company with bucklers and shields, all of them handling swords:

38:5    波斯人，古實人，和弗人（又作利比亞人），各拿盾牌，頭上戴盔。
Persia, Ethiopia, and Libya with them; all of them with shield and helmet:

38:6    歌篾人和他的軍隊，北方極處的陀迦瑪族和他的軍隊，這許多國的民都同著你。
Gomer, and all his bands; the house of Togarmah of the north quarters, and all his bands: and many people with thee.

38:7    那聚集到你這裡的各隊都當準備。你自己也要準備，作他們的大帥。
Be thou prepared, and prepare for thyself, thou, and all thy company that are assembled unto thee, and be thou a guard unto them.

38:8    過了多日，你必被差派。到末後之年，你必來到脫離刀劍從列國收回之地，到以色列常久荒涼的山上。但那從列國中招聚出來的必在其上安然居住。
After many days thou shalt be visited: in the latter years thou shalt come into the land that is brought back from the sword, and is gathered out of many people, against the mountains of Israel, which have been always waste: but it is brought forth out of the nations, and they shall dwell safely all of them.

38:9    你和你的軍隊，並同著你許多國的民，必如暴風上來，如密雲遮蓋地面。
Thou shalt ascend and come like a storm, thou shalt be like a cloud to cover the land, thou, and all thy bands, and many people with thee.

38:10    主耶和華如此說，到那時，你心必起意念，圖謀惡計，
Thus saith the Lord GOD; It shall also come to pass, that at the same time shall things come into thy mind, and thou shalt think an evil thought:

38:11    說，我要上那無城牆的鄉村，我要到那安靜的民那裡，他們都沒有城牆，無門，無閂，安然居住。
And thou shalt say, I will go up to the land of unwalled villages; I will go to them that are at rest, that dwell safely, all of them dwelling without walls, and having neither bars nor gates,

38:12    我去要搶財為擄物，奪貨為掠物，反手攻擊那從前荒涼，現在有人居住之地，又攻擊那住世界中間，從列國招聚，得了牲畜財貨的民。
To take a spoil, and to take a prey; to turn thine hand upon the desolate places that are now inhabited, and upon the people that are gathered out of the nations, which have gotten cattle and goods, that dwell in the midst of the land.

38:13    示巴人，底但人，他施的客商，和其間的少壯獅子都必問你說，你來要搶財為擄物嗎。你聚集軍隊要奪貨為掠物嗎。要奪取金銀，擄去牲畜，財貨嗎。要搶奪許多財寶為擄物嗎。
Sheba, and Dedan, and the merchants of Tarshish, with all the young lions thereof, shall say unto thee, Art thou come to take a spoil? hast thou gathered thy company to take a prey? to carry away silver and gold, to take away cattle and goods, to take a great spoil?

38:14    人子阿，你要因此發預言，對歌革說，主耶和華如此說，到我民以色列安然居住之日，你豈不知道嗎。
Therefore, son of man, prophesy and say unto Gog, Thus saith the Lord GOD; In that day when my people of Israel dwelleth safely, shalt thou not know it?

38:15    你必從本地，從北方的極處率領許多國的民來，都騎著馬，乃一大隊極多的軍兵。
And thou shalt come from thy place out of the north parts, thou, and many people with thee, all of them riding upon horses, a great company, and a mighty army:

38:16    歌革阿，你必上來攻擊我的民以色列，如密雲遮蓋地面。末後的日子，我必帶你來攻擊我的地，到我在外邦人眼前，在你身上顯為聖的時候，好叫他們認識我。
And thou shalt come up against my people of Israel, as a cloud to cover the land; it shall be in the latter days, and I will bring thee against my land, that the heathen may know me, when I shall be sanctified in thee, O Gog, before their eyes.

38:17    主耶和華如此說，我在古時藉我的僕人以色列的先知所說的，就是你嗎。當日他們多年預言我必帶你來攻擊以色列人。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Art thou he of whom I have spoken in old time by my servants the prophets of Israel, which prophesied in those days many years that I would bring thee against them?

38:18    主耶和華說，歌革上來攻擊以色列地的時候，我的怒氣要從鼻孔裡發出。
And it shall come to pass at the same time when Gog shall come against the land of Israel, saith the Lord GOD, that my fury shall come up in my face.

38:19    我發憤恨和烈怒如火說，那日在以色列地必有大震動，
For in my jealousy and in the fire of my wrath have I spoken, Surely in that day there shall be a great shaking in the land of Israel;

38:20    甚至海中的魚，天空的鳥，田野的獸，並地上的一切昆蟲，和其上的眾人，因見我的面就都震動。山嶺必崩裂，陡巖必塌陷，牆垣都必坍倒。
So that the fishes of the sea, and the fowls of the heaven, and the beasts of the field, and all creeping things that creep upon the earth, and all the men that are upon the face of the earth, shall shake at my presence, and the mountains shall be thrown down, and the steep places shall fall, and every wall shall fall to the ground.

38:21    主耶和華說，我必命我的諸山發刀劍來攻擊歌革。人都要用刀劍殺害弟兄。
And I will call for a sword against him throughout all my mountains, saith the Lord GOD: every man's sword shall be against his brother.

38:22    我必用瘟疫和流血的事刑罰他。我也必將暴雨，大雹與火，並硫磺降與他和他的軍隊，並他所率領的眾民。
And I will plead against him with pestilence and with blood; and I will rain upon him, and upon his bands, and upon the many people that are with him, an overflowing rain, and great hailstones, fire, and brimstone.

38:23    我必顯為大，顯為聖，在多國人的眼前顯現。他們就知道我是耶和華。
Thus will I magnify myself, and sanctify myself; and I will be known in the eyes of many nations, and they shall know that I am the LORD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 39 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


39:1    人子阿，你要向歌革發預言攻擊他，說主耶和華如此說，羅施，米設，土巴的王歌革阿，我與你為敵。
Therefore, thou son of man, prophesy against Gog, and say, Thus saith the Lord GOD; Behold, I am against thee, O Gog, the chief prince of Meshech and Tubal:

39:2    我必調轉你，領你前往，使你從北方的極處上來，帶你到以色列的山上。
And I will turn thee back, and leave but the sixth part of thee, and will cause thee to come up from the north parts, and will bring thee upon the mountains of Israel:

39:3    我必從你左手打落你的弓，從你右手打掉你的箭。
And I will smite thy bow out of thy left hand, and will cause thine arrows to fall out of thy right hand.

39:4    你和你的軍隊，並同著你的列國人，都必倒在以色列的山上。我必將你給各類的鷙鳥和田野的走獸作食物。
Thou shalt fall upon the mountains of Israel, thou, and all thy bands, and the people that is with thee: I will give thee unto the ravenous birds of every sort, and to the beasts of the field to be devoured.

39:5    你必倒在田野，因為我曾說過。這是主耶和華說的。
Thou shalt fall upon the open field: for I have spoken it, saith the Lord GOD.

39:6    我要降火在瑪各和海島安然居住的人身上，他們就知道我是耶和華。
And I will send a fire on Magog, and among them that dwell carelessly in the isles: and they shall know that I am the LORD.

39:7    我要在我民以色列中顯出我的聖名，也不容我的聖名再被褻瀆，列國人就知道我是耶和華以色列中的聖者。
So will I make my holy name known in the midst of my people Israel; and I will not let them pollute my holy name any more: and the heathen shall know that I am the LORD, the Holy One in Israel.

39:8    主耶和華說，這日事情臨近，也必成就，乃是我所說的日子。
Behold, it is come, and it is done, saith the Lord GOD; this is the day whereof I have spoken.

39:9    住以色列城邑的人必出去撿器械，就是大小盾牌，弓箭，梃杖，槍矛，都當柴燒火，直燒七年，
And they that dwell in the cities of Israel shall go forth, and shall set on fire and burn the weapons, both the shields and the bucklers, the bows and the arrows, and the handstaves, and the spears, and they shall burn them with fire seven years:

39:10    甚至他們不必從田野撿柴，也不必從樹林伐木。因為他們要用器械燒火，並且搶奪那搶奪他們的人，擄掠那擄掠他們的人。這是主耶和華說的。
So that they shall take no wood out of the field, neither cut down any out of the forests; for they shall burn the weapons with fire: and they shall spoil those that spoiled them, and rob those that robbed them, saith the Lord GOD.

39:11    當那日，我必將以色列地的谷，就是海東人所經過的谷，賜給歌革為墳地，使經過的人到此停步。在那裡人必葬埋歌革和他的群眾，就稱那地為哈們歌革谷。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will give unto Gog a place there of graves in Israel, the valley of the passengers on the east of the sea: and it shall stop the noses of the passengers: and there shall they bury Gog and all his multitude: and they shall call it The valley of Hamongog.

39:12    以色列家的人必用七個月葬埋他們，為要潔淨全地。
And seven months shall the house of Israel be burying of them, that they may cleanse the land.

39:13    全地的居民都必葬埋他們。當我得榮耀的日子，這事必叫他們得名聲。這是主耶和華說的。
Yea, all the people of the land shall bury them; and it shall be to them a renown the day that I shall be glorified, saith the Lord GOD.

39:14    他們必分派人時常巡查遍地，與過路的人一同葬埋那剩在地面上的屍首，好潔淨全地。過了七個月，他們還要巡查。
And they shall sever out men of continual employment, passing through the land to bury with the passengers those that remain upon the face of the earth, to cleanse it: after the end of seven months shall they search.

39:15    巡查遍地的人要經過全地，見有人的骸骨，就在旁邊立一標記，等葬埋的人來將骸骨葬在哈們歌革谷。
And the passengers that pass through the land, when any seeth a man's bone, then shall he set up a sign by it, till the buriers have buried it in the valley of Hamongog.

39:16    他們必這樣潔淨那地，並有一城名叫哈摩那。
And also the name of the city shall be Hamonah. Thus shall they cleanse the land.



39:17    人子阿，主耶和華如此說，你要對各類的飛鳥和田野的走獸說，你們聚集來吧，要從四方聚到我為你們獻祭之地，就是在以色列山上獻大祭之地，好叫你們吃肉，喝血。
And, thou son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD; Speak unto every feathered fowl, and to every beast of the field, Assemble yourselves, and come; gather yourselves on every side to my sacrifice that I do sacrifice for you, even a great sacrifice upon the mountains of Israel, that ye may eat flesh, and drink blood.

39:18    你們必吃勇士的肉，喝地上首領的血，就如吃公綿羊，羊羔，公山羊，公牛，都是巴珊的肥畜。
Ye shall eat the flesh of the mighty, and drink the blood of the princes of the earth, of rams, of lambs, and of goats, of bullocks, all of them fatlings of Bashan.

39:19    你們吃我為你們所獻的祭，必吃飽了脂油，喝醉了血。
And ye shall eat fat till ye be full, and drink blood till ye be drunken, of my sacrifice which I have sacrificed for you.

39:20    你們必在我席上飽吃馬匹和坐車的人，並勇士和一切的戰士。這是主耶和華說的。
Thus ye shall be filled at my table with horses and chariots, with mighty men, and with all men of war, saith the Lord GOD.

39:21    我必顯我的榮耀在列國中。萬民就必看見我所行的審判與我在他們身上所加的手。
And I will set my glory among the heathen, and all the heathen shall see my judgment that I have executed, and my hand that I have laid upon them.

39:22    這樣，從那日以後，以色列家必知道我是耶和華他們的神。
So the house of Israel shall know that I am the LORD their God from that day and forward.

39:23    列國人也必知道以色列家被擄掠是因他們的罪孽。他們得罪我，我就掩面不顧，將他們交在敵人手中，他們便都倒在刀下。
And the heathen shall know that the house of Israel went into captivity for their iniquity: because they trespassed against me, therefore hid I my face from them, and gave them into the hand of their enemies: so fell they all by the sword.

39:24    我是照他們的汙穢和罪過待他們，並且我掩面不顧他們。
According to their uncleanness and according to their transgressions have I done unto them, and hid my face from them.

39:25    主耶和華如此說，我要使雅各被擄的人歸回，要憐憫以色列全家，又為我的聖名發熱心。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; Now will I bring again the captivity of Jacob, and have mercy upon the whole house of Israel, and will be jealous for my holy name;

39:26    *
After that they have borne their shame, and all their trespasses whereby they have trespassed against me, when they dwelt safely in their land, and none made them afraid.

39:27    他們在本地安然居住，無人驚嚇，是我將他們從萬民中領回，從仇敵之地召來。我在許多國的民眼前，在他們身上顯為聖的時候，他們要擔當自己的羞辱和干犯我的一切罪。
When I have brought them again from the people, and gathered them out of their enemies' lands, and am sanctified in them in the sight of many nations;

39:28    因我使他們被擄到外邦人中，後又聚集他們歸回本地，他們就知道我是耶和華他們的神。我必不再留他們一人在外邦。
Then shall they know that I am the LORD their God, which caused them to be led into captivity among the heathen: but I have gathered them unto their own land, and have left none of them any more there.

39:29    我也不再掩面不顧他們，因我已將我的靈澆灌以色列家。這是主耶和華說的。
Neither will I hide my face any more from them: for I have poured out my spirit upon the house of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 40 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


40:1    我們被擄掠第二十五年，耶路撒冷城攻破後十四年，正在年初，月之初十日，耶和華的靈（原文作手）降在我身上，他把我帶到以色列地。
In the five and twentieth year of our captivity, in the beginning of the year, in the tenth day of the month, in the fourteenth year after that the city was smitten, in the selfsame day the hand of the LORD was upon me, and brought me thither.

40:2    在神的異象中帶我到以色列地，安置在至高的山上。在山上的南邊有彷佛一座城建立。
In the visions of God brought he me into the land of Israel, and set me upon a very high mountain, by which was as the frame of a city on the south.

40:3    他帶我到那裡，見有一人，顏色（原文作形狀）如銅，手拿麻繩和量度的竿，站在門口。
And he brought me thither, and, behold, there was a man, whose appearance was like the appearance of brass, with a line of flax in his hand, and a measuring reed; and he stood in the gate.

40:4    那人對我說，人子阿，凡我所指示你的，你都要用眼看，用耳聽，並要放在心上。我帶你到這裡來，特為要指示你。凡你所見的，你都要告訴以色列家。
And the man said unto me, Son of man, behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears, and set thine heart upon all that I shall shew thee; for to the intent that I might shew them unto thee art thou brought hither: declare all that thou seest to the house of Israel.

40:5    我見殿四圍有牆。那人手拿量度的竿，長六肘，每肘是一肘零一掌。他用竿量牆，厚一竿，高一竿。
And behold a wall on the outside of the house round about, and in the man's hand a measuring reed of six cubits long by the cubit and an hand breadth: so he measured the breadth of the building, one reed; and the height, one reed.

40:6    他到了朝東的門，就上門的臺階，量門的這檻，寬一竿。又量門的那檻，寬一竿。
Then came he unto the gate which looketh toward the east, and went up the stairs thereof, and measured the threshold of the gate, which was one reed broad; and the other threshold of the gate, which was one reed broad.

40:7    又有衛房，每房長一竿，寬一竿，相隔五肘。門檻，就是挨著向殿的廊門檻，寬一竿。
And every little chamber was one reed long, and one reed broad; and between the little chambers were five cubits; and the threshold of the gate by the porch of the gate within was one reed.

40:8    他又量向殿門的廊子，寬一竿。
He measured also the porch of the gate within, one reed.

40:9    又量門廊，寬八肘，牆柱厚二肘。那門的廊子向著殿。
Then measured he the porch of the gate, eight cubits; and the posts thereof, two cubits; and the porch of the gate was inward.

40:10    東門洞有衛房，這旁三間，那旁三間，都是一樣的尺寸。這邊的柱子和那邊的柱子，也是一樣的尺寸。
And the little chambers of the gate eastward were three on this side, and three on that side; they three were of one measure: and the posts had one measure on this side and on that side.

40:11    他量門口，寬十肘，長十三肘。
And he measured the breadth of the entry of the gate, ten cubits; and the length of the gate, thirteen cubits.

40:12    衛房前晒出的境界，這邊一肘，那邊一肘。衛房這邊六肘，那邊六肘。
The space also before the little chambers was one cubit on this side, and the space was one cubit on that side: and the little chambers were six cubits on this side, and six cubits on that side.

40:13    又量門洞，從這衛房頂的後簷到那衛房頂的後簷，寬二十五肘。衛房門與門相對。
He measured then the gate from the roof of one little chamber to the roof of another: the breadth was five and twenty cubits, door against door.

40:14    又量（原文作造）廊子六十肘（七十士譯本作二十肘），牆柱外是院子，有廊為界，在門洞兩邊。
He made also posts of threescore cubits, even unto the post of the court round about the gate.

40:15    從大門口到內廊前，共五十肘。
And from the face of the gate of the entrance unto the face of the porch of the inner gate were fifty cubits.

40:16    衛房和門洞兩旁柱間並廊子，都有嚴緊的窗櫺。裡邊都有窗櫺，柱上有雕刻的棕樹。
And there were narrow windows to the little chambers, and to their posts within the gate round about, and likewise to the arches: and windows were round about inward: and upon each post were palm trees.

40:17    他帶我到外院，見院的四圍有鋪石地。鋪石地上有屋子三十間。
Then brought he me into the outward court, and, lo, there were chambers, and a pavement made for the court round about: thirty chambers were upon the pavement.

40:18    鋪石地，就是矮鋪石地在各門洞兩旁，以門洞的長短為度。
And the pavement by the side of the gates over against the length of the gates was the lower pavement.

40:19    他從下門量到內院外，共寬一百肘，東面北面都是如此。
Then he measured the breadth from the forefront of the lower gate unto the forefront of the inner court without, an hundred cubits eastward and northward.

40:20    他量外院朝北的門，長寬若干。
And the gate of the outward court that looked toward the north, he measured the length thereof, and the breadth thereof.

40:21    門洞的衛房，這旁三間，那旁三間。門洞的柱子和廊子，與第一門的尺寸一樣。門洞長五十肘，寬二十五肘。
And the little chambers thereof were three on this side and three on that side; and the posts thereof and the arches thereof were after the measure of the first gate: the length thereof was fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.

40:22    其窗櫺和廊子，並雕刻的棕樹，與朝東的門尺寸一樣。登七層臺階上到這門，前面有廊子。
And their windows, and their arches, and their palm trees, were after the measure of the gate that looketh toward the east; and they went up unto it by seven steps; and the arches thereof were before them.

40:23    內院有門與這門相對，北面東面都是如此。他從這門量到那門，共一百肘。
And the gate of the inner court was over against the gate toward the north, and toward the east; and he measured from gate to gate an hundred cubits.

40:24    他帶我往南去，見朝南有門，又照先前的尺寸量門洞的柱子和廊子。
After that he brought me toward the south, and behold a gate toward the south: and he measured the posts thereof and the arches thereof according to these measures.

40:25    門洞兩旁與廊子的周圍都有窗櫺，和先量的窗櫺一樣。門洞長五十肘，寬二十五肘。
And there were windows in it and in the arches thereof round about, like those windows: the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.

40:26    登七層臺階上到這門，前面有廊子。柱上有雕刻的棕樹，這邊一棵，那邊一棵。
And there were seven steps to go up to it, and the arches thereof were before them: and it had palm trees, one on this side, and another on that side, upon the posts thereof.

40:27    內院朝南有門。從這門量到朝南的那門，共一百肘。
And there was a gate in the inner court toward the south: and he measured from gate to gate toward the south an hundred cubits.

40:28    他帶我從南門到內院，就照先前的尺寸量南門。
And he brought me to the inner court by the south gate: and he measured the south gate according to these measures;

40:29    衛房和柱子，並廊子都照先前的尺寸。門洞兩旁與廊子的周圍都有窗櫺。門洞長五十肘，寬二十五肘。
And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the arches thereof, according to these measures: and there were windows in it and in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad.

40:30    周圍有廊子，長二十五肘，寬五肘。
And the arches round about were five and twenty cubits long, and five cubits broad.

40:31    廊子朝著外院，柱上有雕刻的棕樹。登八層臺階上到這門。
And the arches thereof were toward the utter court; and palm trees were upon the posts thereof: and the going up to it had eight steps.

40:32    他帶我到內院的東面，就照先前的尺寸量東門。
And he brought me into the inner court toward the east: and he measured the gate according to these measures.

40:33    衛房和柱子，並廊子都照先前的尺寸。門洞兩旁與廊子的周圍都有窗櫺。門洞長五十肘，寬二十五肘。
And the little chambers thereof, and the posts thereof, and the arches thereof, were according to these measures: and there were windows therein and in the arches thereof round about: it was fifty cubits long, and five and twenty cubits broad.

40:34    廊子朝著外院。門洞兩旁的柱子都有雕刻的棕樹。登八層臺階上到這門。
And the arches thereof were toward the outward court; and palm trees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and the going up to it had eight steps.

40:35    他帶我到北門，就照先前的尺寸量那門，
And he brought me to the north gate, and measured it according to these measures;



40:36    就是量衛房和柱子，並廊子。門洞周圍都有窗櫺。門洞長五十肘，寬二十五肘。
The little chambers thereof, the posts thereof, and the arches thereof, and the windows to it round about: the length was fifty cubits, and the breadth five and twenty cubits.

40:37    廊柱朝著外院。門洞兩旁的柱子都有雕刻的棕樹。登八層臺階上到這門。
And the posts thereof were toward the utter court; and palm trees were upon the posts thereof, on this side, and on that side: and the going up to it had eight steps.

40:38    門洞的柱旁有屋子和門。祭司（原文作他們）在那裡洗燔祭牲。
And the chambers and the entries thereof were by the posts of the gates, where they washed the burnt offering.

40:39    在門廊內，這邊有兩張桌子，那邊有兩張桌子，在其上可以宰殺燔祭牲，贖罪祭牲，和贖愆祭牲。
And in the porch of the gate were two tables on this side, and two tables on that side, to slay thereon the burnt offering and the sin offering and the trespass offering.

40:40    上到朝北的門口，這邊有兩張桌子，門廊那邊也有兩張桌子。
And at the side without, as one goeth up to the entry of the north gate, were two tables; and on the other side, which was at the porch of the gate, were two tables.

40:41    門這邊有四張桌子，那邊有四張桌子，共八張。在其上祭司宰殺犧牲。
Four tables were on this side, and four tables on that side, by the side of the gate; eight tables, whereupon they slew their sacrifices.

40:42    為燔祭牲有四張桌子，是鑿過的石頭作成的，長一肘半，寬一肘半，高一肘。祭司將宰殺燔祭牲和平安祭牲所用的器皿放在其上。
And the four tables were of hewn stone for the burnt offering, of a cubit and an half long, and a cubit and an half broad, and one cubit high: whereupon also they laid the instruments wherewith they slew the burnt offering and the sacrifice.

40:43    有鉤子，寬一掌，釘在廊內的四圍。桌子上有犧牲的肉。
And within were hooks, an hand broad, fastened round about: and upon the tables was the flesh of the offering.

40:44    在北門旁，內院裡有屋子，為歌唱的人而設。這屋子朝南（南原文作東）。在南門旁，又有一間朝北。
And without the inner gate were the chambers of the singers in the inner court, which was at the side of the north gate; and their prospect was toward the south: one at the side of the east gate having the prospect toward the north.

40:45    他對我說，這朝南的屋子是為看守殿宇的祭司。
And he said unto me, This chamber, whose prospect is toward the south, is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the house.

40:46    那朝北的屋子是為看守祭壇的祭司。這些祭司是利未人中撒督的子孫，近前來事奉耶和華的。
And the chamber whose prospect is toward the north is for the priests, the keepers of the charge of the altar: these are the sons of Zadok among the sons of Levi, which come near to the LORD to minister unto him.

40:47    他又量內院，長一百肘，寬一百肘，是見方的。祭壇在殿前。
So he measured the court, an hundred cubits long, and an hundred cubits broad, foursquare; and the altar that was before the house.

40:48    於是他帶我到殿前的廊子，量廊子的牆柱。這面厚五肘，那面厚五肘。門兩旁，這邊三肘，那邊三肘。
And he brought me to the porch of the house, and measured each post of the porch, five cubits on this side, and five cubits on that side: and the breadth of the gate was three cubits on this side, and three cubits on that side.

40:49    廊子長二十肘，寬十一肘。上廊子有臺階。靠近牆柱又有柱子，這邊一根，那邊一根。
The length of the porch was twenty cubits, and the breadth eleven cubits; and he brought me by the steps whereby they went up to it: and there were pillars by the posts, one on this side, and another on that side.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 41 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


41:1    他帶我到殿那裡量牆柱，這面厚六肘，那面厚六肘，寬窄與會幕相同。
Afterward he brought me to the temple, and measured the posts, six cubits broad on the one side, and six cubits broad on the other side, which was the breadth of the tabernacle.

41:2    門口寬十肘。門兩旁，這邊五肘，那邊五肘。他量殿長四十肘，寬二十肘。
And the breadth of the door was ten cubits; and the sides of the door were five cubits on the one side, and five cubits on the other side: and he measured the length thereof, forty cubits: and the breadth, twenty cubits.

41:3    他到內殿量牆柱，各厚二肘。門口寬六肘，門兩旁各寬七肘。
Then went he inward, and measured the post of the door, two cubits; and the door, six cubits; and the breadth of the door, seven cubits.

41:4    他量內殿，長二十肘，寬二十肘。他對我說，這是至聖所。
So he measured the length thereof, twenty cubits; and the breadth, twenty cubits, before the temple: and he said unto me, This is the most holy place.

41:5    他又量殿牆，厚六肘。圍著殿有旁屋，各寬四肘。
After he measured the wall of the house, six cubits; and the breadth of every side chamber, four cubits, round about the house on every side.

41:6    旁屋有三層，層疊而上，每層排列三十間。旁屋的梁木擱在殿牆坎上，免得插入殿牆。
And the side chambers were three, one over another, and thirty in order; and they entered into the wall which was of the house for the side chambers round about, that they might have hold, but they had not hold in the wall of the house.

41:7    這圍殿的旁屋越高越寬。因旁屋圍殿懸疊而上，所以越上越寬，從下一層，由中一層，到上一層。
And there was an enlarging, and a winding about still upward to the side chambers: for the winding about of the house went still upward round about the house: therefore the breadth of the house was still upward, and so increased from the lowest chamber to the highest by the midst.

41:8    我又見圍著殿有高月臺。旁屋的根基，高足一竿，就是六大肘。
I saw also the height of the house round about: the foundations of the side chambers were a full reed of six great cubits.

41:9    旁屋的外牆厚五肘。旁屋之外還有餘地。
The thickness of the wall, which was for the side chamber without, was five cubits: and that which was left was the place of the side chambers that were within.

41:10    在旁屋與對面的房屋中間有空地，寬二十肘。
And between the chambers was the wideness of twenty cubits round about the house on every side.

41:11    旁屋的門都向餘地，一門向北，一門向南。周圍的餘地寬五肘。
And the doors of the side chambers were toward the place that was left, one door toward the north, and another door toward the south: and the breadth of the place that was left was five cubits round about.

41:12    在西面空地之後有房子，寬七十肘，長九十肘，牆四圍厚五肘。
Now the building that was before the separate place at the end toward the west was seventy cubits broad; and the wall of the building was five cubits thick round about, and the length thereof ninety cubits.

41:13    這樣，他量殿，長一百肘，又量空地和那房子並牆，共長一百肘。
So he measured the house, an hundred cubits long; and the separate place, and the building, with the walls thereof, an hundred cubits long;

41:14    殿的前面和兩旁的空地，寬一百肘。
Also the breadth of the face of the house, and of the separate place toward the east, an hundred cubits.

41:15    他量空地後面的那房子，並兩旁的樓廊，共長一百肘。
And he measured the length of the building over against the separate place which was behind it, and the galleries thereof on the one side and on the other side, an hundred cubits, with the inner temple, and the porches of the court;

41:16    內殿，院廊，門檻，嚴緊的窗櫺，並對著門檻的三層樓廊，從地到窗櫺（窗櫺都有蔽子），
The door posts, and the narrow windows, and the galleries round about on their three stories, over against the door, cieled with wood round about, and from the ground up to the windows, and the windows were covered;

41:17    直到門以上，就是到內殿和外殿內外四圍牆壁，都按尺寸用木板遮蔽。
To that above the door, even unto the inner house, and without, and by all the wall round about within and without, by measure.

41:18    牆上雕刻基路伯和棕樹。每二基路伯中間有一棵棕樹，每基路伯有二臉。
And it was made with cherubims and palm trees, so that a palm tree was between a cherub and a cherub; and every cherub had two faces;

41:19    這邊有人臉向著棕樹，那邊有獅子臉向著棕樹，殿內周圍都是如此。
So that the face of a man was toward the palm tree on the one side, and the face of a young lion toward the palm tree on the other side: it was made through all the house round about.

41:20    從地至門以上，都有基路伯和棕樹。殿牆就是這樣。
From the ground unto above the door were cherubims and palm trees made, and on the wall of the temple.

41:21    殿的門柱是方的。至聖所的前面，形狀和殿的形狀一樣。
The posts of the temple were squared, and the face of the sanctuary; the appearance of the one as the appearance of the other.

41:22    壇是木頭作的，高三肘，長二肘。壇角和壇面，並四旁，都是木頭作的。他對我說，這是耶和華面前的桌子。
The altar of wood was three cubits high, and the length thereof two cubits; and the corners thereof, and the length thereof, and the walls thereof, were of wood: and he said unto me, This is the table that is before the LORD.

41:23    殿和至聖所的門各有兩扇。
And the temple and the sanctuary had two doors.

41:24    每扇分兩扇，這兩扇是摺疊的。這邊門分兩扇，那邊門也分兩扇。
And the doors had two leaves apiece, two turning leaves; two leaves for the one door, and two leaves for the other door.

41:25    殿的門扇上雕刻基路伯和棕樹，與刻在牆上的一般。在外頭廊前有木檻。
And there were made on them, on the doors of the temple, cherubims and palm trees, like as were made upon the walls; and there were thick planks upon the face of the porch without.

41:26    廊這邊那邊都有嚴緊的窗櫺和棕樹。殿的旁屋和檻就是這樣。
And there were narrow windows and palm trees on the one side and on the other side, on the sides of the porch, and upon the side chambers of the house, and thick planks.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 42 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


42:1    他帶我出來向北，到外院，又帶我進入聖屋。這聖屋一排順著空地，一排與北邊鋪石地之屋相對。
Then he brought me forth into the utter court, the way toward the north: and he brought me into the chamber that was over against the separate place, and which was before the building toward the north.

42:2    這聖屋長一百肘，寬五十肘，有向北的門。
Before the length of an hundred cubits was the north door, and the breadth was fifty cubits.

42:3    對著內院那二十肘寬之空地，又對著外院的鋪石地，在第三層樓上有樓廊對著樓廊。
Over against the twenty cubits which were for the inner court, and over against the pavement which was for the utter court, was gallery against gallery in three stories.

42:4    在聖屋前有一條夾道，寬十肘，長一百肘。房門都向北。
And before the chambers was a walk of ten cubits breadth inward, a way of one cubit; and their doors toward the north.

42:5    聖屋因為樓廊佔去些地方，所以上層比中下兩層窄些。
Now the upper chambers were shorter: for the galleries were higher than these, than the lower, and than the middlemost of the building.

42:6    聖屋有三層，卻無柱子，不像外院的屋子有柱子。所以上層比中下兩層更窄。
For they were in three stories, but had not pillars as the pillars of the courts: therefore the building was straitened more than the lowest and the middlemost from the ground.

42:7    聖屋外，東邊有牆，靠著外院，長五十肘。
And the wall that was without over against the chambers, toward the utter court on the forepart of the chambers, the length thereof was fifty cubits.



42:8    靠著外院的聖屋長五十肘。殿北面的聖屋長一百肘。
For the length of the chambers that were in the utter court was fifty cubits: and, lo, before the temple were an hundred cubits.

42:9    在聖屋以下，東頭有進入之處，就是從外院進入之處。
And from under these chambers was the entry on the east side, as one goeth into them from the utter court.

42:10    向南（原文作東）在內院牆裡有聖屋，一排與鋪石地之屋相對，一排順著空地。
The chambers were in the thickness of the wall of the court toward the east, over against the separate place, and over against the building.

42:11    這聖屋前的夾道與北邊聖屋的夾道長寬一樣。出入之處與北屋門的樣式相同。
And the way before them was like the appearance of the chambers which were toward the north, as long as they, and as broad as they: and all their goings out were both according to their fashions, and according to their doors.

42:12    正在牆前，夾道的東頭，有門可以進入，與向南聖屋的門一樣。
And according to the doors of the chambers that were toward the south was a door in the head of the way, even the way directly before the wall toward the east, as one entereth into them.

42:13    他對我說，順著空地的南屋北屋，都是聖屋。親近耶和華的祭司當在那裡吃至聖的物，也當在那裡放至聖的物，就是素祭，贖罪祭，和贖愆祭，因此處為聖。
Then said he unto me, The north chambers and the south chambers, which are before the separate place, they be holy chambers, where the priests that approach unto the LORD shall eat the most holy things: there shall they lay the most holy things, and the meat offering, and the sin offering, and the trespass offering; for the place is holy.

42:14    祭司進去出了聖所的時候，不可直到外院，但要在聖屋放下他們供職的衣服，因為是聖衣。要穿上別的衣服才可以到屬民的外院。
When the priests enter therein, then shall they not go out of the holy place into the utter court, but there they shall lay their garments wherein they minister; for they are holy; and shall put on other garments, and shall approach to those things which are for the people.

42:15    他量完了內殿，就帶我出朝東的門，量院的四圍。
Now when he had made an end of measuring the inner house, he brought me forth toward the gate whose prospect is toward the east, and measured it round about.

42:16    他用量度的竿量四圍，量東面五百肘（原文作竿本章下同），
He measured the east side with the measuring reed, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about.

42:17    用竿量北面五百肘，
He measured the north side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed round about.

42:18    用竿量南面五百肘，
He measured the south side, five hundred reeds, with the measuring reed.

42:19    又轉到西面，用竿量五百肘。
He turned about to the west side, and measured five hundred reeds with the measuring reed.

42:20    他量四面，四圍有牆，長五百肘，寬五百肘，為要分別聖地與俗地。
He measured it by the four sides: it had a wall round about, five hundred reeds long, and five hundred broad, to make a separation between the sanctuary and the profane place.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 43 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


43:1    以後，他帶我到一座門，就是朝東的門。
Afterward he brought me to the gate, even the gate that looketh toward the east:

43:2    以色列神的榮光從東而來。他的聲音如同多水的聲音。地就因他的榮耀發光。
And, behold, the glory of the God of Israel came from the way of the east: and his voice was like a noise of many waters: and the earth shined with his glory.

43:3    其狀如從前他來滅城的時候我所見的異象，那異象如我在迦巴魯河邊所見的異象，我就俯伏在地。
And it was according to the appearance of the vision which I saw, even according to the vision that I saw when I came to destroy the city: and the visions were like the vision that I saw by the river Chebar; and I fell upon my face.

43:4    耶和華的榮光從朝東的門照入殿中。
And the glory of the LORD came into the house by the way of the gate whose prospect is toward the east.

43:5    靈將我舉起，帶入內院，不料，耶和華的榮光充滿了殿。
So the spirit took me up, and brought me into the inner court; and, behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house.

43:6    我聽見有一位從殿中對我說話。有一人站在我旁邊。
And I heard him speaking unto me out of the house; and the man stood by me.

43:7    他對我說，人子阿，這是我寶座之地，是我腳掌所踏之地。我要在這裡住，在以色列人中直到永遠。以色列家和他們的君王必不再玷汙我的聖名，就是行邪淫，在錫安的高處葬埋他們君王的屍首，
And he said unto me, Son of man, the place of my throne, and the place of the soles of my feet, where I will dwell in the midst of the children of Israel for ever, and my holy name, shall the house of Israel no more defile, neither they, nor their kings, by their whoredom, nor by the carcases of their kings in their high places.

43:8    使他們的門檻挨近我的門檻，他們的門框挨近我的門框。他們與我中間僅隔一牆，並且行可憎的事，玷汙了我的聖名，所以我發怒滅絕他們。
In their setting of their threshold by my thresholds, and their post by my posts, and the wall between me and them, they have even defiled my holy name by their abominations that they have committed: wherefore I have consumed them in mine anger.

43:9    現在他們當從我面前遠除邪淫和他們君王的屍首，我就住在他們中間直到永遠。
Now let them put away their whoredom, and the carcases of their kings, far from me, and I will dwell in the midst of them for ever.

43:10    人子阿，你要將這殿指示以色列家，使他們因自己的罪孽慚愧，也要他們量殿的尺寸。
Thou son of man, shew the house to the house of Israel, that they may be ashamed of their iniquities: and let them measure the pattern.



43:11    他們若因自己所行的一切事慚愧，你就將殿的規模，樣式，出入之處，和一切形狀，典章，禮儀，法則指示他們，在他們眼前寫上，使他們遵照殿的一切規模典章去作。
And if they be ashamed of all that they have done, shew them the form of the house, and the fashion thereof, and the goings out thereof, and the comings in thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and all the forms thereof, and all the laws thereof: and write it in their sight, that they may keep the whole form thereof, and all the ordinances thereof, and do them.

43:12    殿的法則乃是如此，殿在山頂上，四圍的全界要稱為至聖。這就是殿的法則。
This is the law of the house; Upon the top of the mountain the whole limit thereof round about shall be most holy. Behold, this is the law of the house.

43:13    以下量祭壇，是以肘為度（這肘是一肘零一掌）。底座高一肘，邊寬一肘，四圍起邊高一掌，這是壇的座。
And these are the measures of the altar after the cubits: The cubit is a cubit and an hand breadth; even the bottom shall be a cubit, and the breadth a cubit, and the border thereof by the edge thereof round about shall be a span: and this shall be the higher place of the altar.

43:14    從底座到下層磴臺，高二肘，邊寬一肘。從小磴臺到大磴臺，高四肘，邊寬一肘。
And from the bottom upon the ground even to the lower settle shall be two cubits, and the breadth one cubit; and from the lesser settle even to the greater settle shall be four cubits, and the breadth one cubit.

43:15    壇上的供臺，高四肘。供臺的四拐角上都有角。
So the altar shall be four cubits; and from the altar and upward shall be four horns.

43:16    供臺長十二肘，寬十二肘，四面見方。
And the altar shall be twelve cubits long, twelve broad, square in the four squares thereof.

43:17    磴臺長十四肘，寬十四肘，四面見方。四圍起邊高半肘，底座四圍的邊寬一肘。臺階朝東。
And the settle shall be fourteen cubits long and fourteen broad in the four squares thereof; and the border about it shall be half a cubit; and the bottom thereof shall be a cubit about; and his stairs shall look toward the east.

43:18    他對我說，人子阿，主耶和華如此說，建造祭壇，為要在其上獻燔祭灑血，造成的時候典章如下，
And he said unto me, Son of man, thus saith the Lord GOD; These are the ordinances of the altar in the day when they shall make it, to offer burnt offerings thereon, and to sprinkle blood thereon.

43:19    主耶和華說，你要將一隻公牛犢作為贖罪祭，給祭司利未人撒督的後裔，就是那親近我，事奉我的。
And thou shalt give to the priests the Levites that be of the seed of Zadok, which approach unto me, to minister unto me, saith the Lord GOD, a young bullock for a sin offering.

43:20    你要取些公牛的血，抹在壇的四角和磴臺的四拐角，並四圍所起的邊上。你這樣潔淨壇，壇就潔淨了。
And thou shalt take of the blood thereof, and put it on the four horns of it, and on the four corners of the settle, and upon the border round about: thus shalt thou cleanse and purge it.



43:21    你又要將那作贖罪祭的公牛犢燒在殿外，聖地之外預定之處。
Thou shalt take the bullock also of the sin offering, and he shall burn it in the appointed place of the house, without the sanctuary.

43:22    次日，要將無殘疾的公山羊獻為贖罪祭。要潔淨壇，像用公牛犢潔淨的一樣。
And on the second day thou shalt offer a kid of the goats without blemish for a sin offering; and they shall cleanse the altar, as they did cleanse it with the bullock.

43:23    潔淨了壇，就要將一隻無殘疾的公牛犢和羊群中一隻無殘疾的公綿羊
When thou hast made an end of cleansing it, thou shalt offer a young bullock without blemish, and a ram out of the flock without blemish.

43:24    奉到耶和華前。祭司要撒鹽在其上，獻與耶和華為燔祭。
And thou shalt offer them before the LORD, and the priests shall cast salt upon them, and they shall offer them up for a burnt offering unto the LORD.

43:25    七日內，每日要預備一隻公山羊為贖罪祭，也要預備一隻公牛犢和羊群中的一隻公綿羊，都要沒有殘疾的。
Seven days shalt thou prepare every day a goat for a sin offering: they shall also prepare a young bullock, and a ram out of the flock, without blemish.

43:26    七日祭司潔淨壇，壇就潔淨了。要這樣把壇分別為聖。
Seven days shall they purge the altar and purify it; and they shall consecrate themselves.

43:27    滿了七日，自八日以後，祭司要在壇上獻你們的燔祭和平安祭。我必悅納你們。這是主耶和華說的。
And when these days are expired, it shall be, that upon the eighth day, and so forward, the priests shall make your burnt offerings upon the altar, and your peace offerings; and I will accept you, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 44 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


44:1    他又帶我回到聖地朝東的外門。那門關閉了。
Then he brought me back the way of the gate of the outward sanctuary which looketh toward the east; and it was shut.

44:2    耶和華對我說，這門必須關閉，不可敞開，誰也不可由其中進入。因為耶和華以色列的神已經由其中進入，所以必須關閉。
Then said the LORD unto me; This gate shall be shut, it shall not be opened, and no man shall enter in by it; because the LORD, the God of Israel, hath entered in by it, therefore it shall be shut.

44:3    至於王，他必按王的位分，坐在其內，在耶和華面前吃餅。他必由這門的廊而入，也必由此而出。
It is for the prince; the prince, he shall sit in it to eat bread before the LORD; he shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate, and shall go out by the way of the same.

44:4    他又帶我由北門來到殿前。我觀看，見耶和華的榮光充滿耶和華的殿，我就俯伏在地。
Then brought he me the way of the north gate before the house: and I looked, and, behold, the glory of the LORD filled the house of the LORD: and I fell upon my face.

44:5    耶和華對我說，人子阿，我對你所說耶和華殿中的一切典章法則，你要放在心上，用眼看，用耳聽，並要留心殿宇和聖地一切出入之處。
And the LORD said unto me, Son of man, mark well, and behold with thine eyes, and hear with thine ears all that I say unto thee concerning all the ordinances of the house of the LORD, and all the laws thereof; and mark well the entering in of the house, with every going forth of the sanctuary.

44:6    你要對那悖逆的以色列家說，主耶和華如此說，以色列家阿，你們行一切可憎的事，當夠了吧。
And thou shalt say to the rebellious, even to the house of Israel, Thus saith the Lord GOD; O ye house of Israel, let it suffice you of all your abominations,

44:7    你們把我的食物，就是脂油和血獻上的時候，將身心未受割禮的外邦人領進我的聖地，玷汙了我的殿。又背了我的約，在你們一切可憎的事上，加上這一層。
In that ye have brought into my sanctuary strangers, uncircumcised in heart, and uncircumcised in flesh, to be in my sanctuary, to pollute it, even my house, when ye offer my bread, the fat and the blood, and they have broken my covenant because of all your abominations.

44:8    你們也沒有看守我的聖物，卻派別人在聖地替你們看守我所吩咐你們的。
And ye have not kept the charge of mine holy things: but ye have set keepers of my charge in my sanctuary for yourselves.

44:9    主耶和華如此說，以色列中的外邦人，就是身心未受割禮的，都不可入我的聖地。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; No stranger, uncircumcised in heart, nor uncircumcised in flesh, shall enter into my sanctuary, of any stranger that is among the children of Israel.

44:10    當以色列人走迷的時候，有利未人遠離我，就是走迷離開我，隨從他們的偶像，他們必擔當自己的罪孽。
And the Levites that are gone away far from me, when Israel went astray, which went astray away from me after their idols; they shall even bear their iniquity.

44:11    然而他們必在我的聖地當僕役，照管殿門，在殿中供職。必為民宰殺燔祭牲和平安祭牲，必站在民前伺候他們。
Yet they shall be ministers in my sanctuary, having charge at the gates of the house, and ministering to the house: they shall slay the burnt offering and the sacrifice for the people, and they shall stand before them to minister unto them.

44:12    因為這些利未人曾在偶像前伺候這民，成了以色列家罪孽的絆腳石，所以我向他們起誓，他們必擔當自己的罪孽。這是主耶和華說的。
Because they ministered unto them before their idols, and caused the house of Israel to fall into iniquity; therefore have I lifted up mine hand against them, saith the Lord GOD, and they shall bear their iniquity.

44:13    他們不可親近我，給我供祭司的職分，也不可挨近我的一件聖物，就是至聖的物。他們卻要擔當自己的羞辱和所行可憎之事的報應。
And they shall not come near unto me, to do the office of a priest unto me, nor to come near to any of my holy things, in the most holy place: but they shall bear their shame, and their abominations which they have committed.

44:14    然而我要使他們看守殿宇，辦理其中的一切事，並作其內一切當作之工。
But I will make them keepers of the charge of the house, for all the service thereof, and for all that shall be done therein.

44:15    以色列人走迷離開我的時候，祭司利未人撒督的子孫仍看守我的聖所。他們必親近我，事奉我，並且侍立在我面前，將脂油與血獻給我。這是主耶和華說的。
But the priests the Levites, the sons of Zadok, that kept the charge of my sanctuary when the children of Israel went astray from me, they shall come near to me to minister unto me, and they shall stand before me to offer unto me the fat and the blood, saith the Lord GOD:

44:16    他們必進入我的聖所，就近我的桌前事奉我，守我所吩咐的。
They shall enter into my sanctuary, and they shall come near to my table, to minister unto me, and they shall keep my charge.

44:17    他們進內院門必穿細麻衣。在內院門和殿內供職的時候不可穿羊毛衣服。
And it shall come to pass, that when they enter in at the gates of the inner court, they shall be clothed with linen garments; and no wool shall come upon them, whiles they minister in the gates of the inner court, and within.

44:18    他們頭上要戴細麻布裹頭巾，腰穿細麻布褲子。不可穿使身體出汗的衣服。
They shall have linen bonnets upon their heads, and shall have linen breeches upon their loins; they shall not gird themselves with any thing that causeth sweat.

44:19    他們出到外院的民那裡，當脫下供職的衣服，放在聖屋內，穿上別的衣服，免得因聖衣使民成聖。
And when they go forth into the utter court, even into the utter court to the people, they shall put off their garments wherein they ministered, and lay them in the holy chambers, and they shall put on other garments; and they shall not sanctify the people with their garments.

44:20    不可剃頭，也不可容發綹長長，只可剪髮。
Neither shall they shave their heads, nor suffer their locks to grow long; they shall only poll their heads.

44:21    祭司進內院的時候都不可喝酒。
Neither shall any priest drink wine, when they enter into the inner court.

44:22    不可娶寡婦和被休的婦人為妻，只可娶以色列後裔中的處女，或是祭司遺留的寡婦。
Neither shall they take for their wives a widow, nor her that is put away: but they shall take maidens of the seed of the house of Israel, or a widow that had a priest before.

44:23    他們要使我的民知道聖俗的分別，又使他們分辨潔淨的和不潔淨的。
And they shall teach my people the difference between the holy and profane, and cause them to discern between the unclean and the clean.

44:24    有爭訟的事，他們應當站立判斷，要按我的典章判斷。在我一切的節期必守我的律法，條例，也必以我的安息日為聖日。
And in controversy they shall stand in judgment; and they shall judge it according to my judgments: and they shall keep my laws and my statutes in all mine assemblies; and they shall hallow my sabbaths.

44:25    他們不可挨近死屍沾染自己，只可為父親，母親，兒子，女兒，弟兄，和未嫁人的姊妹沾染自己。
And they shall come at no dead person to defile themselves: but for father, or for mother, or for son, or for daughter, for brother, or for sister that hath had no husband, they may defile themselves.

44:26    祭司潔淨之後，必再計算七日。
And after he is cleansed, they shall reckon unto him seven days.

44:27    當他進內院，進聖所，在聖所中事奉的日子，要為自己獻贖罪祭。這是主耶和華說的。
And in the day that he goeth into the sanctuary, unto the inner court, to minister in the sanctuary, he shall offer his sin offering, saith the Lord GOD.

44:28    祭司必有產業，我是他們的產業。不可在以色列中給他們基業。我是他們的基業。
And it shall be unto them for an inheritance: I am their inheritance: and ye shall give them no possession in Israel: I am their possession.

44:29    素祭，贖罪祭，和贖愆祭他們都可以吃，以色列中一切永獻的物都要歸他們。
They shall eat the meat offering, and the sin offering, and the trespass offering: and every dedicated thing in Israel shall be theirs.

44:30    首先初熟之物和一切所獻的供物都要歸給祭司。你們也要用初熟的麥子磨面給祭司。這樣，福氣就必臨到你們的家了。
And the first of all the firstfruits of all things, and every oblation of all, of every sort of your oblations, shall be the priest's: ye shall also give unto the priest the first of your dough, that he may cause the blessing to rest in thine house.

44:31    無論是鳥是獸，凡自死的，或是撕裂的，祭司都不可吃。
The priests shall not eat of any thing that is dead of itself, or torn, whether it be fowl or beast.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 45 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


45:1    你們拈鬮分地為業，要獻上一分給耶和華為聖供地，長二萬五千肘，寬一萬肘。這分以內，四圍都為聖地。
Moreover, when ye shall divide by lot the land for inheritance, ye shall offer an oblation unto the LORD, an holy portion of the land: the length shall be the length of five and twenty thousand reeds, and the breadth shall be ten thousand. This shall be holy in all the borders thereof round about.

45:2    其中有作為聖所之地，長五百肘，寬五百肘，四面見方。四圍再有五十肘為郊野之地。
Of this there shall be for the sanctuary five hundred in length, with five hundred in breadth, square round about; and fifty cubits round about for the suburbs thereof.

45:3    要以肘為度量地，長二萬五千肘，寬一萬肘。其中有聖所，是至聖的。
And of this measure shalt thou measure the length of five and twenty thousand, and the breadth of ten thousand: and in it shall be the sanctuary and the most holy place.

45:4    這是全地的一分聖地，要歸與供聖所職事的祭司，就是親近事奉耶和華的，作為他們房屋之地與聖所之聖地。
The holy portion of the land shall be for the priests the ministers of the sanctuary, which shall come near to minister unto the LORD: and it shall be a place for their houses, and an holy place for the sanctuary.

45:5    又有一分，長二萬五千肘，寬一萬肘，要歸與在殿中供職的利未人，作為二十間房屋之業。
And the five and twenty thousand of length, and the ten thousand of breadth, shall also the Levites, the ministers of the house, have for themselves, for a possession for twenty chambers.

45:6    也要分定屬城的地業，寬五千肘，長二萬五千肘，挨著那分聖供地，要歸以色列全家。
And ye shall appoint the possession of the city five thousand broad, and five and twenty thousand long, over against the oblation of the holy portion: it shall be for the whole house of Israel.

45:7    歸王之地要在聖供地和屬城之地的兩旁，就是聖供地和屬城之地的旁邊，西至西頭，東至東頭，從西到東，其長與每支派的分一樣。
And a portion shall be for the prince on the one side and on the other side of the oblation of the holy portion, and of the possession of the city, before the oblation of the holy portion, and before the possession of the city, from the west side westward, and from the east side eastward: and the length shall be over against one of the portions, from the west border unto the east border.

45:8    這地在以色列中必歸王為業。我所立的王必不再欺壓我的民，卻要按支派將地分給以色列家。
In the land shall be his possession in Israel: and my princes shall no more oppress my people; and the rest of the land shall they give to the house of Israel according to their tribes.

45:9    主耶和華如此說，以色列的王阿，你們應當知足，要除掉強暴和搶奪的事，施行公平和公義，不再勒索我的民。這是主耶和華說的。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; Let it suffice you, O princes of Israel: remove violence and spoil, and execute judgment and justice, take away your exactions from my people, saith the Lord GOD.

45:10    你們要用公道天平，公道伊法，公道吧特。
Ye shall have just balances, and a just ephah, and a just bath.

45:11    伊法與吧特大小要一樣。吧特可盛賀梅珥十分之一，伊法也可盛賀梅珥十分之一，都以賀梅珥的大小為準。
The ephah and the bath shall be of one measure, that the bath may contain the tenth part of an homer, and the ephah the tenth part of an homer: the measure thereof shall be after the homer.

45:12    舍客勒是二十季拉。二十舍客勒，二十五舍客勒，十五舍客勒，為你們的彌那。
And the shekel shall be twenty gerahs: twenty shekels, five and twenty shekels, fifteen shekels, shall be your maneh.

45:13    你們當獻的供物乃是這樣，一賀梅珥麥子要獻伊法六分之一。一賀梅珥大麥要獻伊法六分之一。
This is the oblation that ye shall offer; the sixth part of an ephah of an homer of wheat, and ye shall give the sixth part of an ephah of an homer of barley:

45:14    你們獻所分定的油，按油的吧特，一柯珥油要獻吧特十分之一。原來十吧特就是一賀梅珥。
Concerning the ordinance of oil, the bath of oil, ye shall offer the tenth part of a bath out of the cor, which is an homer of ten baths; for ten baths are an homer:

45:15    從以色列滋潤的草場上每二百羊中，要獻一隻羊羔。這都可作素祭，燔祭，平安祭，為民贖罪。這是主耶和華說的。
And one lamb out of the flock, out of two hundred, out of the fat pastures of Israel; for a meat offering, and for a burnt offering, and for peace offerings, to make reconciliation for them, saith the Lord GOD.

45:16    此地的民都要奉上這供物給以色列中的王。
All the people of the land shall give this oblation for the prince in Israel.

45:17    王的本分是在節期，月朔，安息日，就是以色列家一切的節期，奉上燔祭，素祭，奠祭。他要預備贖罪祭，素祭，燔祭，和平安祭，為以色列家贖罪。
And it shall be the prince's part to give burnt offerings, and meat offerings, and drink offerings, in the feasts, and in the new moons, and in the sabbaths, in all solemnities of the house of Israel: he shall prepare the sin offering, and the meat offering, and the burnt offering, and the peace offerings, to make reconciliation for the house of Israel.

45:18    主耶和華如此說，正月初一日，你要取無殘疾的公牛犢，潔淨聖所。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; In the first month, in the first day of the month, thou shalt take a young bullock without blemish, and cleanse the sanctuary:

45:19    祭司要取些贖罪祭牲的血，抹在殿的門柱上和壇磴臺的四角上，並內院的門框上。
And the priest shall take of the blood of the sin offering, and put it upon the posts of the house, and upon the four corners of the settle of the altar, and upon the posts of the gate of the inner court.

45:20    本月初七日（七十士譯本作七月初一日）也要為誤犯罪的，和愚蒙犯罪的如此行，為殿贖罪。
And so thou shalt do the seventh day of the month for every one that erreth, and for him that is simple: so shall ye reconcile the house.

45:21    正月十四日，你們要守逾越節，守節七日，要吃無酵餅。
In the first month, in the fourteenth day of the month, ye shall have the passover, a feast of seven days; unleavened bread shall be eaten.

45:22    當日，王要為自己和國內的眾民預備一隻公牛作贖罪祭。
And upon that day shall the prince prepare for himself and for all the people of the land a bullock for a sin offering.

45:23    這節的七日，每日他要為耶和華預備無殘疾的公牛七隻，公綿羊七隻為燔祭。每日又要預備公山羊一隻為贖罪祭。
And seven days of the feast he shall prepare a burnt offering to the LORD, seven bullocks and seven rams without blemish daily the seven days; and a kid of the goats daily for a sin offering.

45:24    他也要預備素祭，就是為一隻公牛同獻一伊法細面，為一隻公綿羊同獻一伊法細面，每一伊法細面加油一欣。
And he shall prepare a meat offering of an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, and an hin of oil for an ephah.

45:25    七月十五日守節的時候，七日他都要如此行，照逾越節的贖罪祭，燔祭，素祭，和油的條例一樣。
In the seventh month, in the fifteenth day of the month, shall he do the like in the feast of the seven days, according to the sin offering, according to the burnt offering, and according to the meat offering, and according to the oil.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 46 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


46:1    主耶和華如此說，內院朝東的門，在辦理事務的六日內必須關閉。惟有安息日和月朔必須敞開。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; The gate of the inner court that looketh toward the east shall be shut the six working days; but on the sabbath it shall be opened, and in the day of the new moon it shall be opened.

46:2    王要從這門的廊進入，站在門框旁邊。祭司要為他預備燔祭和平安祭，他就要在門檻那裡敬拜，然後出去。這門直到晚上不可關閉。
And the prince shall enter by the way of the porch of that gate without, and shall stand by the post of the gate, and the priests shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, and he shall worship at the threshold of the gate: then he shall go forth; but the gate shall not be shut until the evening.

46:3    在安息日和月朔，國內的居民要在這門口，耶和華面前敬拜。
Likewise the people of the land shall worship at the door of this gate before the LORD in the sabbaths and in the new moons.

46:4    安息日，王所獻與耶和華的燔祭要用無殘疾的羊羔六隻，無殘疾的公綿羊一隻。
And the burnt offering that the prince shall offer unto the LORD in the sabbath day shall be six lambs without blemish, and a ram without blemish.

46:5    同獻的素祭要為公綿羊獻一伊法細面，為羊羔照他的力量而獻，一伊法細面加油一欣。
And the meat offering shall be an ephah for a ram, and the meat offering for the lambs as he shall be able to give, and an hin of oil to an ephah.

46:6    當月朔，要獻無殘疾的公牛犢一隻，羊羔六隻，公綿羊一隻，都要無殘疾的。
And in the day of the new moon it shall be a young bullock without blemish, and six lambs, and a ram: they shall be without blemish.

46:7    他也要預備素祭，為公牛獻一伊法細面，為公綿羊獻一伊法細面，為羊羔照他的力量而獻，一伊法細面加油一欣。
And he shall prepare a meat offering, an ephah for a bullock, and an ephah for a ram, and for the lambs according as his hand shall attain unto, and an hin of oil to an ephah.

46:8    王進入的時候必由這門的廊而入，也必由此而出。
And when the prince shall enter, he shall go in by the way of the porch of that gate, and he shall go forth by the way thereof.

46:9    在各節期，國內居民朝見耶和華的時候，從北門進入敬拜的，必由南門而出。從南門進入的，必由北門而出。不可從所入的門而出，必要直往前行，由對門而出。
But when the people of the land shall come before the LORD in the solemn feasts, he that entereth in by the way of the north gate to worship shall go out by the way of the south gate; and he that entereth by the way of the south gate shall go forth by the way of the north gate: he shall not return by the way of the gate whereby he came in, but shall go forth over against it.

46:10    民進入，王也要在民中進入。民出去，王也要一同出去。
And the prince in the midst of them, when they go in, shall go in; and when they go forth, shall go forth.

46:11    在節期和聖會的日子同獻的素祭，要為一隻公牛獻一伊法細面，為一隻公綿羊獻一伊法細面，為羊羔照他的力量而獻，一伊法細面加油一欣。
And in the feasts and in the solemnities the meat offering shall be an ephah to a bullock, and an ephah to a ram, and to the lambs as he is able to give, and an hin of oil to an ephah.

46:12    王預備甘心獻的燔祭或平安祭，就是向耶和華甘心獻的，當有人為他開朝東的門。他就預備燔祭和平安祭，與安息日預備的一樣，獻畢就出去。他出去之後，當有人將門關閉。
Now when the prince shall prepare a voluntary burnt offering or peace offerings voluntarily unto the LORD, one shall then open him the gate that looketh toward the east, and he shall prepare his burnt offering and his peace offerings, as he did on the sabbath day: then he shall go forth; and after his going forth one shall shut the gate.

46:13    每日，你要預備無殘疾一歲的羊羔一隻，獻與耶和華為燔祭。要每早晨預備。
Thou shalt daily prepare a burnt offering unto the LORD of a lamb of the first year without blemish: thou shalt prepare it every morning.

46:14    每早晨也要預備同獻的素祭，細面一伊法六分之一，並油一欣三分之一，調和細面。這素祭要常獻與耶和華為永遠的定例。
And thou shalt prepare a meat offering for it every morning, the sixth part of an ephah, and the third part of an hin of oil, to temper with the fine flour; a meat offering continually by a perpetual ordinance unto the LORD.

46:15    每早晨要這樣預備羊羔，素祭，並油為常獻的燔祭。
Thus shall they prepare the lamb, and the meat offering, and the oil, every morning for a continual burnt offering.

46:16    主耶和華如此說，王若將產業賜給他的兒子，就成了他兒子的產業，那是他們承受為業的。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; If the prince give a gift unto any of his sons, the inheritance thereof shall be his sons'; it shall be their possession by inheritance.

46:17    倘若王將一分產業賜給他的臣僕，就成了他臣僕的產業。到自由之年仍要歸與王。至於王的產業，必歸與他的兒子。
But if he give a gift of his inheritance to one of his servants, then it shall be his to the year of liberty; after it shall return to the prince: but his inheritance shall be his sons' for them.

46:18    王不可奪取民的產業，以致驅逐他們離開所承受的。他要從自己的地業中，將產業賜給他兒子，免得我的民分散，各人離開所承受的。
Moreover the prince shall not take of the people's inheritance by oppression, to thrust them out of their possession; but he shall give his sons inheritance out of his own possession: that my people be not scattered every man from his possession.

46:19    那帶我的，將我從門旁進入之處，領進為祭司預備的聖屋，是朝北的，見後頭西邊有一塊地。
After he brought me through the entry, which was at the side of the gate, into the holy chambers of the priests, which looked toward the north: and, behold, there was a place on the two sides westward.

46:20    他對我說，這是祭司煮贖愆祭，贖罪祭，烤素祭之地，免得帶到外院，使民成聖。
Then said he unto me, This is the place where the priests shall boil the trespass offering and the sin offering, where they shall bake the meat offering; that they bear them not out into the utter court, to sanctify the people.

46:21    他又帶我到外院，使我經過院子的四拐角，見每拐角各有一個院子。
Then he brought me forth into the utter court, and caused me to pass by the four corners of the court; and, behold, in every corner of the court there was a court.

46:22    院子四拐角的院子，周圍有牆，每院長四十肘，寬三十肘。四拐角院子的尺寸都是一樣，
In the four corners of the court there were courts joined of forty cubits long and thirty broad: these four corners were of one measure.

46:23    其中周圍有一排房子，房子內有煮肉的地方。
And there was a row of building round about in them, round about them four, and it was made with boiling places under the rows round about.

46:24    他對我說，這都是煮肉的房子，殿內的僕役要在這裡煮民的祭物。
Then said he unto me, These are the places of them that boil, where the ministers of the house shall boil the sacrifice of the people.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 47 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


47:1    他帶我回到殿門，見殿的門檻下有水往東流出（原來殿面朝東）。這水從檻下，由殿的右邊，在祭壇的南邊往下流。
Afterward he brought me again unto the door of the house; and, behold, waters issued out from under the threshold of the house eastward: for the forefront of the house stood toward the east, and the waters came down from under from the right side of the house, at the south side of the altar.

47:2    他帶我出北門，又領我從外邊轉到朝東的外門，見水從右邊流出。
Then brought he me out of the way of the gate northward, and led me about the way without unto the utter gate by the way that looketh eastward; and, behold, there ran out waters on the right side.

47:3    他手拿準繩往東出去的時候，量了一千肘，使我趟過水，水到踝子骨。
And when the man that had the line in his hand went forth eastward, he measured a thousand cubits, and he brought me through the waters; the waters were to the ankles.

47:4    他又量了一千肘，使我趟過水，水就到膝。再量了一千肘，使我趟過水，水便到腰。
Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through the waters; the waters were to the knees. Again he measured a thousand, and brought me through; the waters were to the loins.

47:5    又量了一千肘，水便成了河，使我不能趟過。因為水勢漲起，成為可？？的水，不可趟的河。
Afterward he measured a thousand; and it was a river that I could not pass over: for the waters were risen, waters to swim in, a river that could not be passed over.

47:6    他對我說，人子阿，你看見了什麼。他就帶我回到河邊。
And he said unto me, Son of man, hast thou seen this? Then he brought me, and caused me to return to the brink of the river.

47:7    我回到河邊的時候，見在河這邊與那邊的岸上有極多的樹木。
Now when I had returned, behold, at the bank of the river were very many trees on the one side and on the other.

47:8    他對我說，這水往東方流去，必下到亞拉巴，直到海。所發出來的水必流入鹽海，使水變甜（原文作得醫治下同）。
Then said he unto me, These waters issue out toward the east country, and go down into the desert, and go into the sea: which being brought forth into the sea, the waters shall be healed.

47:9    這河水所到之處，凡滋生的動物都必生活，並且因這流來的水必有極多的魚，海水也變甜了。這河水所到之處，百物都必生活。
And it shall come to pass, that every thing that liveth, which moveth, whithersoever the rivers shall come, shall live: and there shall be a very great multitude of fish, because these waters shall come thither: for they shall be healed; and every thing shall live whither the river cometh.

47:10    必有漁夫站在河邊，從隱基底直到隱以革蓮，都作晒（或作張）網之處。那魚各從其類，好像大海的魚甚多。
And it shall come to pass, that the fishers shall stand upon it from Engedi even unto Eneglaim; they shall be a place to spread forth nets; their fish shall be according to their kinds, as the fish of the great sea, exceeding many.

47:11    只是泥濘之地與窪溼之處不得治好，必為鹽地。
But the miry places thereof and the marishes thereof shall not be healed; they shall be given to salt.

47:12    在河這邊與那邊的岸上必生長各類的樹木。其果可作食物，葉子不枯乾，果子不斷絕。每月必結新果子，因為這水是從聖所流出來的。樹上的果子必作食物，葉子乃為治病。
And by the river upon the bank thereof, on this side and on that side, shall grow all trees for meat, whose leaf shall not fade, neither shall the fruit thereof be consumed: it shall bring forth new fruit according to his months, because their waters they issued out of the sanctuary: and the fruit thereof shall be for meat, and the leaf thereof for medicine.

47:13    主耶和華如此說，你們要照地的境界，按以色列十二支派分地為業。約瑟必得兩分。
Thus saith the Lord GOD; This shall be the border, whereby ye shall inherit the land according to the twelve tribes of Israel: Joseph shall have two portions.

47:14    你們承受這地為業，要彼此均分。因為我曾起誓應許將這地賜與你們的列祖。這地必歸你們為業。
And ye shall inherit it, one as well as another: concerning the which I lifted up mine hand to give it unto your fathers: and this land shall fall unto you for inheritance.

47:15    地的四界乃是如此，北界從大海往希特倫，直到西達達口。
And this shall be the border of the land toward the north side, from the great sea, the way of Hethlon, as men go to Zedad;

47:16    又往哈馬，比羅他，西伯蓮（西伯蓮在大馬革與哈馬兩界中間），到浩蘭邊界的哈撒哈提幹。
Hamath, Berothah, Sibraim, which is between the border of Damascus and the border of Hamath; Hazarhatticon, which is by the coast of Hauran.

47:17    這樣，境界從海邊往大馬士革地界上的哈薩以難，北邊以哈馬地為界。這是北界。
And the border from the sea shall be Hazarenan, the border of Damascus, and the north northward, and the border of Hamath. And this is the north side.

47:18    東界在浩蘭，大馬士革，基列，和以色列地的中間，就是約旦河。你們要從北界量到東海。這是東界。
And the east side ye shall measure from Hauran, and from Damascus, and from Gilead, and from the land of Israel by Jordan, from the border unto the east sea. And this is the east side.

47:19    南界是從他瑪到米利巴加低斯的水，延到埃及小河，直到大海。這是南界。
And the south side southward, from Tamar even to the waters of strife in Kadesh, the river to the great sea. And this is the south side southward.

47:20    西界就是大海，從南界直到哈馬口對面之地。這是西界。
The west side also shall be the great sea from the border, till a man come over against Hamath. This is the west side.

47:21    你們要按著以色列的支派彼此分這地。
So shall ye divide this land unto you according to the tribes of Israel.

47:22    要拈鬮分這地為業，歸與自己和你們中間寄居的外人，就是在你們中間生養兒女的外人。你們要看他們如同以色列人中所生的一樣。他們在以色列支派中要與你們同得地業
And it shall come to pass, that ye shall divide it by lot for an inheritance unto you, and to the strangers that sojourn among you, which shall beget children among you: and they shall be unto you as born in the country among the children of Israel; they shall have inheritance with you among the tribes of Israel.

47:23    外人寄居在哪支派中，你們就在那裡分給他地業。這是主耶和華說的。
And it shall come to pass, that in what tribe the stranger sojourneth, there shall ye give him his inheritance, saith the Lord GOD.




舊約 -- 以西結書(Ezekiel) -- 第 48 章 ( 本篇共有 48 章 )    　


48:1    眾支派按名所得之地記在下面，從北頭，由希特倫往哈馬口，到大馬士革地界上的哈薩以難。北邊靠著哈馬地（各支派的地都有東西的邊界），是但的一分。
Now these are the names of the tribes. From the north end to the coast of the way of Hethlon, as one goeth to Hamath, Hazarenan, the border of Damascus northward, to the coast of Hamath; for these are his sides east and west; a portion for Dan.

48:2    挨著但的地界，從東到西，是亞設的一分。
And by the border of Dan, from the east side unto the west side, a portion for Asher.

48:3    挨著亞設的地界，從東到西，是拿弗他利的一分。
And by the border of Asher, from the east side even unto the west side, a portion for Naphtali.

48:4    挨著拿弗他利的地界，從東到西，是瑪拿西的一分。
And by the border of Naphtali, from the east side unto the west side, a portion for Manasseh.

48:5    挨著瑪拿西的地界，從東到西，是以法蓮的一分。
And by the border of Manasseh, from the east side unto the west side, a portion for Ephraim.

48:6    挨著以法蓮的地界，從東到西，是流便的一分。
And by the border of Ephraim, from the east side even unto the west side, a portion for Reuben.

48:7    挨著流便的地界，從東到西，是猶大的一分。
And by the border of Reuben, from the east side unto the west side, a portion for Judah.

48:8    挨著猶大的地界，從東到西，必有你們所當獻的供地，寬二萬五千肘。從東界到西界，長短與各分之地相同，聖地當在其中。
And by the border of Judah, from the east side unto the west side, shall be the offering which ye shall offer of five and twenty thousand reeds in breadth, and in length as one of the other parts, from the east side unto the west side: and the sanctuary shall be in the midst of it.

48:9    你們獻與耶和華的供地要長二萬五千肘，寬一萬肘。
The oblation that ye shall offer unto the LORD shall be of five and twenty thousand in length, and of ten thousand in breadth.

48:10    這聖供地要歸與祭司，北長二萬五千肘，西寬一萬肘，東寬一萬肘，南長二萬五千肘。耶和華的聖地當在其中。
And for them, even for the priests, shall be this holy oblation; toward the north five and twenty thousand in length, and toward the west ten thousand in breadth, and toward the east ten thousand in breadth, and toward the south five and twenty thousand in length: and the sanctuary of the LORD shall be in the midst thereof.

48:11    這地要歸與撒督的子孫中成為聖的祭司，就是那守我所吩咐的。當以色列人走迷的時候，他們不像那些利未人走迷了。
It shall be for the priests that are sanctified of the sons of Zadok; which have kept my charge, which went not astray when the children of Israel went astray, as the Levites went astray.

48:12    這要歸與他們為供地，是全地中至聖的。供地挨著利未人的地界。
And this oblation of the land that is offered shall be unto them a thing most holy by the border of the Levites.

48:13    利未人所得的地要長二萬五千肘，寬一萬肘，與祭司的地界相等，都長二萬五千肘，寬一萬肘。
And over against the border of the priests the Levites shall have five and twenty thousand in length, and ten thousand in breadth: all the length shall be five and twenty thousand, and the breadth ten thousand.

48:14    這地不可賣，不可換，初熟之物也不可歸與別人，因為是歸耶和華為聖的。
And they shall not sell of it, neither exchange, nor alienate the firstfruits of the land: for it is holy unto the LORD.



48:15    這二萬五千肘前面所剩下五千肘寬之地要作俗用，作為造城蓋房郊野之地。城要在當中。
And the five thousand, that are left in the breadth over against the five and twenty thousand, shall be a profane place for the city, for dwelling, and for suburbs: and the city shall be in the midst thereof.

48:16    城的尺寸乃是如此，北面四千五百肘，南面四千五百肘，東面四千五百肘，西面四千五百肘。
And these shall be the measures thereof; the north side four thousand and five hundred, and the south side four thousand and five hundred, and on the east side four thousand and five hundred, and the west side four thousand and five hundred.

48:17    城必有郊野，向北二百五十肘，向南二百五十肘，向東二百五十肘，向西二百五十肘。
And the suburbs of the city shall be toward the north two hundred and fifty, and toward the south two hundred and fifty, and toward the east two hundred and fifty, and toward the west two hundred and fifty.

48:18    靠著聖供地的餘地，東長一萬肘，西長一萬肘，要與聖供地相等。其中的土產要作城內工人的食物。
And the residue in length over against the oblation of the holy portion shall be ten thousand eastward, and ten thousand westward: and it shall be over against the oblation of the holy portion; and the increase thereof shall be for food unto them that serve the city.

48:19    所有以色列支派中，在城內作工的，都要耕種這地。
And they that serve the city shall serve it out of all the tribes of Israel.

48:20    你們所獻的聖供地連歸城之地，是四方的，長二萬五千肘，寬二萬五千肘。
All the oblation shall be five and twenty thousand by five and twenty thousand: ye shall offer the holy oblation foursquare, with the possession of the city.

48:21    聖供地連歸城之地，兩邊的餘地要歸與王。供地東邊，南北二萬五千肘，東至東界，西邊南北二萬五千肘，西至西界，與各分之地相同，都要歸王。聖供地和殿的聖地要在其中，
And the residue shall be for the prince, on the one side and on the other of the holy oblation, and of the possession of the city, over against the five and twenty thousand of the oblation toward the east border, and westward over against the five and twenty thousand toward the west border, over against the portions for the prince: and it shall be the holy oblation; and the sanctuary of the house shall be in the midst thereof.

48:22    並且利未人之地，與歸城之地的東西兩邊延長之地（這兩地在王地中間），就是在猶大和便雅憫兩界中間，要歸與王。
Moreover from the possession of the Levites, and from the possession of the city, being in the midst of that which is the prince's, between the border of Judah and the border of Benjamin, shall be for the prince.

48:23    論到其餘的支派，從東到西，是便雅憫的一分。
As for the rest of the tribes, from the east side unto the west side, Benjamin shall have a portion.

48:24    挨著便雅憫的地界，從東到西，是西緬的一分。
And by the border of Benjamin, from the east side unto the west side, Simeon shall have a portion.

48:25    挨著西緬的地界，從東到西，是以薩迦的一分。
And by the border of Simeon, from the east side unto the west side, Issachar a portion.

48:26    挨著以薩迦的地界，從東到西，是西布倫的一分。
And by the border of Issachar, from the east side unto the west side, Zebulun a portion.

48:27    挨著西布倫的地界，從東到西，是迦得的一分。
And by the border of Zebulun, from the east side unto the west side, Gad a portion.

48:28    迦得地的南界是從他瑪到米利巴加低斯的水，延到埃及小河，直到大海。
And by the border of Gad, at the south side southward, the border shall be even from Tamar unto the waters of strife in Kadesh, and to the river toward the great sea.

48:29    這就是你們要拈鬮分給以色列支派為業之地，乃是他們各支派所得之分。這是主耶和華說的。
This is the land which ye shall divide by lot unto the tribes of Israel for inheritance, and these are their portions, saith the Lord GOD.

48:30    城的北面四千五百肘。出城之處如下。
And these are the goings out of the city on the north side, four thousand and five hundred measures.

48:31    城的各門要按以色列支派的名字。北面有三門，一為流便門，一為猶大門，一為利未門。
And the gates of the city shall be after the names of the tribes of Israel: three gates northward; one gate of Reuben, one gate of Judah, one gate of Levi.

48:32    東面四千五百肘，有三門，一為約瑟門，一為便雅憫門，一為但門。
And at the east side four thousand and five hundred: and three gates; and one gate of Joseph, one gate of Benjamin, one gate of Dan.

48:33    南面四千五百肘，有三門，一為西緬門，一為以薩迦門，一為西布倫門。
And at the south side four thousand and five hundred measures: and three gates; one gate of Simeon, one gate of Issachar, one gate of Zebulun.

48:34    西面四千五百肘，有三門，一為迦得門，一為亞設門，一為拿弗他利門。
At the west side four thousand and five hundred, with their three gates; one gate of Gad, one gate of Asher, one gate of Naphtali.

48:35    城四圍共一萬八千肘。從此以後，這城的名字必稱為耶和華的所在。
It was round about eighteen thousand measures: and the name of the city from that day shall be, The LORD is there.




