舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


1:1    猶大王約雅敬在位第三年，巴比倫王尼布甲尼撒來到耶路撒冷，將城圍困。
In the third year of the reign of Jehoiakim king of Judah came Nebuchadnezzar king of Babylon unto Jerusalem, and besieged it.

1:2    主將猶大王約雅敬，並神殿中器皿的幾分交付他手。他就把這器皿帶到示拿地，收入他神的廟裡，放在他神的庫中。
And the Lord gave Jehoiakim king of Judah into his hand, with part of the vessels of the house of God: which he carried into the land of Shinar to the house of his god; and he brought the vessels into the treasure house of his god.

1:3    王吩咐太監長亞施毗拿，從以色列人的宗室和貴胄中帶進幾個人來，
And the king spake unto Ashpenaz the master of his eunuchs, that he should bring certain of the children of Israel, and of the king's seed, and of the princes;

1:4    就是年少沒有殘疾，相貌俊美，通達各樣學問，知識聰明俱備，足能侍立在王宮裡的，要教他們迦勒底的文字言語。
Children in whom was no blemish, but well favoured, and skilful in all wisdom, and cunning in knowledge, and understanding science, and such as had ability in them to stand in the king's palace, and whom they might teach the learning and the tongue of the Chaldeans.

1:5    王派定將自己所用的膳和所飲的酒，每日賜他們一分，養他們三年。滿了三年，好叫他們在王面前侍立。
And the king appointed them a daily provision of the king's meat, and of the wine which he drank: so nourishing them three years, that at the end thereof they might stand before the king.

1:6    他們中間有猶大族的人，但以理，哈拿尼雅，米沙利，亞撒利雅。
Now among these were of the children of Judah, Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah:

1:7    太監長給他們起名，稱但以理為伯提沙撒，稱哈拿尼雅為沙得拉，稱米沙利為米煞，稱亞撒利雅為亞伯尼歌。
Unto whom the prince of the eunuchs gave names: for he gave unto Daniel the name of Belteshazzar; and to Hananiah, of Shadrach; and to Mishael, of Meshach; and to Azariah, of Abednego.

1:8    但以理卻立志不以王的膳和王所飲的酒玷汙自己，所以求太監長容他不玷汙自己。
But Daniel purposed in his heart that he would not defile himself with the portion of the king's meat, nor with the wine which he drank: therefore he requested of the prince of the eunuchs that he might not defile himself.

1:9    神使但以理在太監長眼前蒙恩惠，受憐憫。
Now God had brought Daniel into favour and tender love with the prince of the eunuchs.

1:10    太監長對但以理說，我懼怕我主我王，他已經派定你們的飲食。倘若他見你們的面貌比你們同歲的少年人肌瘦，怎嗎好呢。這樣，你們就使我的頭在王那裡難保。
And the prince of the eunuchs said unto Daniel, I fear my lord the king, who hath appointed your meat and your drink: for why should he see your faces worse liking than the children which are of your sort? then shall ye make me endanger my head to the king.

1:11    但以理對太監長所派管理但以理，哈拿尼雅，米沙利，亞撒利雅的委辦說，
Then said Daniel to Melzar, whom the prince of the eunuchs had set over Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah,

1:12    求你試試僕人們十天，給我們素菜吃，白水喝，
Prove thy servants, I beseech thee, ten days; and let them give us pulse to eat, and water to drink.

1:13    然後看看我們的面貌和用王膳那少年人的面貌，就照你所看的待僕人吧。
Then let our countenances be looked upon before thee, and the countenance of the children that eat of the portion of the king's meat: and as thou seest, deal with thy servants.

1:14    委辦便允准他們這件事，試看他們十天。
So he consented to them in this matter, and proved them ten days.

1:15    過了十天，見他們的面貌比用王膳的一切少年人更加俊美肥胖。
And at the end of ten days their countenances appeared fairer and fatter in flesh than all the children which did eat the portion of the king's meat.

1:16    於是委辦撤去派他們用的膳，飲的酒，給他們素菜吃。
Thus Melzar took away the portion of their meat, and the wine that they should drink; and gave them pulse.

1:17    這四個少年人，神在各樣文字學問（學問原文作智慧）上賜給他們聰明知識。但以理又明白各樣的異象和夢兆。
As for these four children, God gave them knowledge and skill in all learning and wisdom: and Daniel had understanding in all visions and dreams.

1:18    尼布甲尼撒王預定帶進少年人來的日期滿了，太監長就把他們帶到王面前。
Now at the end of the days that the king had said he should bring them in, then the prince of the eunuchs brought them in before Nebuchadnezzar.

1:19    王與他們談論，見少年人中無一人能比但以理，哈拿尼雅，米沙利，亞撒利雅，所以留他們在王面前侍立。
And the king communed with them; and among them all was found none like Daniel, Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah: therefore stood they before the king.

1:20    王考問他們一切事，就見他們的智慧聰明比通國的術士和用法術的勝過十倍。
And in all matters of wisdom and understanding, that the king enquired of them, he found them ten times better than all the magicians and astrologers that were in all his realm.

1:21    到居魯士王元年，但以理還在。
And Daniel continued even unto the first year of king Cyrus.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


2:1    尼布甲尼撒在位第二年，他作了夢，心裡煩亂，不能睡覺。
And in the second year of the reign of Nebuchadnezzar Nebuchadnezzar dreamed dreams, wherewith his spirit was troubled, and his sleep brake from him.

2:2    王吩咐人將術士，用法術的，行邪術的，和迦勒底人召來，要他們將王的夢告訴王，他們就來站在王前。
Then the king commanded to call the magicians, and the astrologers, and the sorcerers, and the Chaldeans, for to shew the king his dreams. So they came and stood before the king.

2:3    王對他們說，我作了一夢，心裡煩亂，要知道這是什麼夢。
And the king said unto them, I have dreamed a dream, and my spirit was troubled to know the dream.

2:4    迦勒底人用亞蘭的言語對王說，願王萬歲。請將那夢告訴僕人，僕人就可以講解。
Then spake the Chaldeans to the king in Syriack, O king, live for ever: tell thy servants the dream, and we will shew the interpretation.

2:5    王回答迦勒底人說，夢我已經忘了（或作我已定命八節同），你們若不將夢和夢的講解告訴我，就必被凌遲，你們的房屋必成為糞堆。
The king answered and said to the Chaldeans, The thing is gone from me: if ye will not make known unto me the dream, with the interpretation thereof, ye shall be cut in pieces, and your houses shall be made a dunghill.

2:6    你們若將夢和夢的講解告訴我，就必從我這裡得贈品和賞賜，並大尊榮。現在你們要將夢和夢的講解告訴我。
But if ye shew the dream, and the interpretation thereof, ye shall receive of me gifts and rewards and great honour: therefore shew me the dream, and the interpretation thereof.



2:7    他們第二次對王說，請王將夢告訴僕人，僕人就可以講解。
They answered again and said, Let the king tell his servants the dream, and we will shew the interpretation of it.

2:8    王回答說，我準知道你們是故意遲延，因為你們知道那夢我已經忘了。
The king answered and said, I know of certainty that ye would gain the time, because ye see the thing is gone from me.

2:9    你們若不將夢告訴我，只有一法待你們。因為你們預備了謊言亂語向我說，要等候時勢改變。現在你們要將夢告訴我，因我知道你們能將夢的講解告訴我。
But if ye will not make known unto me the dream, there is but one decree for you: for ye have prepared lying and corrupt words to speak before me, till the time be changed: therefore tell me the dream, and I shall know that ye can shew me the interpretation thereof.

2:10    迦勒底人在王面前回答說，世上沒有人能將王所問的事說出來。因為沒有君王，大臣，掌權的向術士，或用法術的，或迦勒底人問過這樣的事。
The Chaldeans answered before the king, and said, There is not a man upon the earth that can shew the king's matter: therefore there is no king, lord, nor ruler, that asked such things at any magician, or astrologer, or Chaldean.

2:11    王所問的事甚難。除了不與世人同居的神明，沒有人在王面前能說出來。
And it is a rare thing that the king requireth, and there is none other that can shew it before the king, except the gods, whose dwelling is not with flesh.

2:12    因此，王氣忿忿地大發烈怒，吩咐滅絕巴比倫所有的哲士。
For this cause the king was angry and very furious, and commanded to destroy all the wise men of Babylon.

2:13    於是命令發出，哲士將要見殺，人就尋梢但以理和他的同伴，要殺他們。
And the decree went forth that the wise men should be slain; and they sought Daniel and his fellows to be slain.

2:14    王的護衛長亞略出來，要殺巴比倫的哲士，但以理就用婉言回答他，
Then Daniel answered with counsel and wisdom to Arioch the captain of the king's guard, which was gone forth to slay the wise men of Babylon:

2:15    向王的護衛長亞略說，王的命令為何這樣緊急呢。亞略就將情節告訴但以理。
He answered and said to Arioch the king's captain, Why is the decree so hasty from the king? Then Arioch made the thing known to Daniel.

2:16    但以理遂進去求王寬限，就可以將夢的講解告訴王。
Then Daniel went in, and desired of the king that he would give him time, and that he would shew the king the interpretation.

2:17    但以理回到他的居所，將這事告訴他的同伴哈拿尼雅，米沙利，亞撒利雅，
Then Daniel went to his house, and made the thing known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions:

2:18    要他們祈求天上的神施憐憫，將這奧祕的事指明，免得但以理和他的同伴與巴比倫其餘的哲士一同滅亡。
That they would desire mercies of the God of heaven concerning this secret; that Daniel and his fellows should not perish with the rest of the wise men of Babylon.

2:19    這奧祕的事就在夜間異象中給但以理顯明，但以理便稱頌天上的神。
Then was the secret revealed unto Daniel in a night vision. Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven.

2:20    但以理說，神的名是應當稱頌的。從亙古直到永遠，因為智慧能力都屬乎他。
Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God for ever and ever: for wisdom and might are his:

2:21    他改變時候，日期，廢王，立王，將智慧賜與智慧人，將知識賜與聰明人。
And he changeth the times and the seasons: he removeth kings, and setteth up kings: he giveth wisdom unto the wise, and knowledge to them that know understanding:

2:22    他顯明深奧隱祕的事，知道暗中所有的，光明也與他同居。
He revealeth the deep and secret things: he knoweth what is in the darkness, and the light dwelleth with him.

2:23    我列祖的神阿，我感謝你，讚美你，因你將智慧才能賜給我，允准我們所求的，把王的事給我們指明。
I thank thee, and praise thee, O thou God of my fathers, who hast given me wisdom and might, and hast made known unto me now what we desired of thee: for thou hast now made known unto us the king's matter.

2:24    於是，但以理進去見亞略，就是王所派滅絕巴比倫哲士的，對他說，不要滅絕巴比倫的哲士，求你領我到王面前，我要將夢的講解告訴王。
Therefore Daniel went in unto Arioch, whom the king had ordained to destroy the wise men of Babylon: he went and said thus unto him; Destroy not the wise men of Babylon: bring me in before the king, and I will shew unto the king the interpretation.

2:25    亞略就急忙將但以理領到王面前，對王說，我在被擄的猶大人中遇見一人，他能將夢的講解告訴王。
Then Arioch brought in Daniel before the king in haste, and said thus unto him, I have found a man of the captives of Judah, that will make known unto the king the interpretation.

2:26    王問稱為伯提沙撒的但以理說，你能將我所作的夢和夢的講解告訴我嗎。
The king answered and said to Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, Art thou able to make known unto me the dream which I have seen, and the interpretation thereof?

2:27    但以理在王面前回答說，王所問的那奧祕事，哲士，用法術的，術士，觀兆的都不能告訴王。
Daniel answered in the presence of the king, and said, The secret which the king hath demanded cannot the wise men, the astrologers, the magicians, the soothsayers, shew unto the king;

2:28    只有一位在天上的神能顯明奧祕的事。他已將日後必有的事指示尼布甲尼撒王。你的夢和你在床上腦中的異象是這樣，
But there is a God in heaven that revealeth secrets, and maketh known to the king Nebuchadnezzar what shall be in the latter days. Thy dream, and the visions of thy head upon thy bed, are these;

2:29    王阿，你在床上想到後來的事，那顯明奧祕事的主把將來必有的事指示你。
As for thee, O king, thy thoughts came into thy mind upon thy bed, what should come to pass hereafter: and he that revealeth secrets maketh known to thee what shall come to pass.

2:30    至於那奧祕的事顯明給我，並非因我的智慧勝過一切活人，乃為使王知道夢的講解和心裡的思念。
But as for me, this secret is not revealed to me for any wisdom that I have more than any living, but for their sakes that shall make known the interpretation to the king, and that thou mightest know the thoughts of thy heart.

2:31    王阿，你夢見一個大像，這像甚高，極其光耀，站在你面前，形狀甚是可怕。
Thou, O king, sawest, and behold a great image. This great image, whose brightness was excellent, stood before thee; and the form thereof was terrible.

2:32    這像的頭是精金的，胸膛和膀臂是銀的，肚腹和腰是銅的，
This image's head was of fine gold, his breast and his arms of silver, his belly and his thighs of brass,

2:33    腿是鐵的，腳是半鐵半泥的。
His legs of iron, his feet part of iron and part of clay.

2:34    你觀看，見有一塊非人手鑿出來的石頭打在這像半鐵半泥的腳上，把腳砸碎。
Thou sawest till that a stone was cut out without hands, which smote the image upon his feet that were of iron and clay, and brake them to pieces.

2:35    於是金，銀，銅，鐵，泥都一同砸得粉碎，成如夏天禾場上的糠秕，被風吹散，無處可尋。打碎這像的石頭變成一座大山，充滿天下。
Then was the iron, the clay, the brass, the silver, and the gold, broken to pieces together, and became like the chaff of the summer threshingfloors; and the wind carried them away, that no place was found for them: and the stone that smote the image became a great mountain, and filled the whole earth.

2:36    這就是那夢。我們在王面前要講解那夢。
This is the dream; and we will tell the interpretation thereof before the king.

2:37    王阿，你是諸王之王。天上的神已將國度，權柄，能力，尊榮都賜給你。
Thou, O king, art a king of kings: for the God of heaven hath given thee a kingdom, power, and strength, and glory.

2:38    凡世人所住之地的走獸，並天空的飛鳥，他都交付你手，使你掌管這一切。你就是那金頭。
And wheresoever the children of men dwell, the beasts of the field and the fowls of the heaven hath he given into thine hand, and hath made thee ruler over them all. Thou art this head of gold.

2:39    在你以後必另興一國，不及於你。又有第三國，就是銅的，必掌管天下。
And after thee shall arise another kingdom inferior to thee, and another third kingdom of brass, which shall bear rule over all the earth.

2:40    第四國，必堅壯如鐵，鐵能打碎剋制百物，又能壓碎一切，那國也必打碎壓制列國。
And the fourth kingdom shall be strong as iron: forasmuch as iron breaketh in pieces and subdueth all things: and as iron that breaketh all these, shall it break in pieces and bruise.

2:41    你既見像的腳和腳指頭，一半是窯匠的泥，一半是鐵，那國將來也必分開。你既見鐵與泥攙雜，那國也必有鐵的力量。
And whereas thou sawest the feet and toes, part of potters' clay, and part of iron, the kingdom shall be divided; but there shall be in it of the strength of the iron, forasmuch as thou sawest the iron mixed with miry clay.

2:42    那腳指頭，既是半鐵半泥，那國也必半強半弱。
And as the toes of the feet were part of iron, and part of clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong, and partly broken.

2:43    你既見鐵與泥攙雜，那國民也必與各種人攙雜，卻不能彼此相合，正如鐵與泥不能相合一樣。
And whereas thou sawest iron mixed with miry clay, they shall mingle themselves with the seed of men: but they shall not cleave one to another, even as iron is not mixed with clay.

2:44    當那列王在位的時候，天上的神必另立一國，永不敗壞，也不歸別國的人，卻要打碎滅絕那一切國，這國必存到永遠。
And in the days of these kings shall the God of heaven set up a kingdom, which shall never be destroyed: and the kingdom shall not be left to other people, but it shall break in pieces and consume all these kingdoms, and it shall stand for ever.

2:45    你既看見非人手鑿出來的一塊石頭從山而出，打碎金，銀，銅，鐵，泥，那就是至大的神把後來必有的事給王指明。這夢準是這樣，這講解也是確實的。
Forasmuch as thou sawest that the stone was cut out of the mountain without hands, and that it brake in pieces the iron, the brass, the clay, the silver, and the gold; the great God hath made known to the king what shall come to pass hereafter: and the dream is certain, and the interpretation thereof sure.

2:46    當時，尼布甲尼撒王俯伏在地，向但以理下拜，並且吩咐人給他奉上供物和香品。
Then the king Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face, and worshipped Daniel, and commanded that they should offer an oblation and sweet odours unto him.

2:47    王對但以理說，你既能顯明這奧祕的事，你們的神誠然是萬神之神，萬王之主，又是顯明奧祕事的。
The king answered unto Daniel, and said, Of a truth it is, that your God is a God of gods, and a Lord of kings, and a revealer of secrets, seeing thou couldest reveal this secret.

2:48    於是王高抬但以理，賞賜他許多上等禮物，派他管理巴比倫全省，又立他為總理，掌管巴比倫的一切哲士。
Then the king made Daniel a great man, and gave him many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon, and chief of the governors over all the wise men of Babylon.

2:49    但以理求王，王就派沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌管理巴比倫省的事務，只是但以理常在朝中侍立。
Then Daniel requested of the king, and he set Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, over the affairs of the province of Babylon: but Daniel sat in the gate of the king.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


3:1    尼布甲尼撒王造了一個金像，高六十肘，寬六肘，立在巴比倫省杜拉平原。
Nebuchadnezzar the king made an image of gold, whose height was threescore cubits, and the breadth thereof six cubits: he set it up in the plain of Dura, in the province of Babylon.

3:2    尼布甲尼撒王差人將總督，欽差，巡撫，臬司，藩司，謀士，法官，和各省的官員都召了來，為尼布甲尼撒王所立的像行開光之禮。
Then Nebuchadnezzar the king sent to gather together the princes, the governors, and the captains, the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, to come to the dedication of the image which Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

3:3    於是總督，欽差，巡撫，臬司，藩司，謀士，法官，和各省的官員都聚集了來，要為尼布甲尼撒王所立的像行開光之禮，就站在尼布甲尼撒所立的像前。
Then the princes, the governors, and captains, the judges, the treasurers, the counsellors, the sheriffs, and all the rulers of the provinces, were gathered together unto the dedication of the image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up; and they stood before the image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up.

3:4    那時傳令的大聲呼叫說，各方，各國，各族（原文作舌下同）的人哪，有令傳與你們，
Then an herald cried aloud, To you it is commanded, O people, nations, and languages,

3:5    你們一聽見角，笛，琵琶，琴，瑟，笙，和各樣樂器的聲音，就當俯伏敬拜尼布甲尼撒王所立的金像。
That at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king hath set up:

3:6    凡不俯伏敬拜的，必立時扔在烈火的窯中。
And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth shall the same hour be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

3:7    因此各方，各國，各族的人民一聽見角，笛，琵琶，琴，瑟，和各樣樂器的聲音，就都俯伏敬拜尼布甲尼撒王所立的金像。
Therefore at that time, when all the people heard the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and all kinds of musick, all the people, the nations, and the languages, fell down and worshipped the golden image that Nebuchadnezzar the king had set up.

3:8    那時，有幾個迦勒底人進前來控告猶大人。
Wherefore at that time certain Chaldeans came near, and accused the Jews.

3:9    他們對尼布甲尼撒王說，願王萬歲。
They spake and said to the king Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live for ever.

3:10    王阿，你曾降旨說，凡聽見角，笛，琵琶，琴，瑟，笙，和各樣樂器聲音的都當俯伏敬拜金像。
Thou, O king, hast made a decree, that every man that shall hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, shall fall down and worship the golden image:

3:11    凡不俯伏敬拜的，必扔在烈火的窯中。
And whoso falleth not down and worshippeth, that he should be cast into the midst of a burning fiery furnace.

3:12    現在有幾個猶大人，就是王所派管理巴比倫省事務的沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌。王阿，這些人不理你，不事奉你的神，也不敬拜你所立的金像。
There are certain Jews whom thou hast set over the affairs of the province of Babylon, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego; these men, O king, have not regarded thee: they serve not thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.

3:13    當時，尼布甲尼撒沖沖大怒，吩咐人把沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌帶過來，他們就把那些人帶到王面前。
Then Nebuchadnezzar in his rage and fury commanded to bring Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Then they brought these men before the king.

3:14    尼布甲尼撒問他們說，沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌，你們不事奉我的神，也不敬拜我所立的金像，是故意的嗎。
Nebuchadnezzar spake and said unto them, Is it true, O Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, do not ye serve my gods, nor worship the golden image which I have set up?

3:15    你們再聽見角，笛，琵琶，琴，瑟，笙，和各樣樂器的聲音，若俯伏敬拜我所造的像，卻還可以。若不敬拜，必立時扔在烈火的窯中，有何神能救你們脫離我手呢。
Now if ye be ready that at what time ye hear the sound of the cornet, flute, harp, sackbut, psaltery, and dulcimer, and all kinds of musick, ye fall down and worship the image which I have made; well: but if ye worship not, ye shall be cast the same hour into the midst of a burning fiery furnace; and who is that God that shall deliver you out of my hands?

3:16    沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌對王說，尼布甲尼撒阿，這件事我們不必回答你。
Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we are not careful to answer thee in this matter.

3:17    即便如此，我們所事奉的神能將我們從烈火的窯中救出來。王阿，他也必救我們脫離你的手。
If it be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of thine hand, O king.

3:18    即或不然，王阿，你當知道我們決不事奉你的神，也不敬拜你所立的金像。
But if not, be it known unto thee, O king, that we will not serve thy gods, nor worship the golden image which thou hast set up.

3:19    當時，尼布甲尼撒怒氣填胸，向沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌變了臉色，吩咐人把窯燒熱，比尋常更加七倍。
Then was Nebuchadnezzar full of fury, and the form of his visage was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego: therefore he spake, and commanded that they should heat the furnace one seven times more than it was wont to be heated.

3:20    又吩咐他軍中的幾個壯士，將沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌捆起來，扔在烈火的窯中。
And he commanded the most mighty men that were in his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and to cast them into the burning fiery furnace.

3:21    這三人穿著褲子，內袍，外衣，和別的衣服，被捆起來扔在烈火的窯中。
Then these men were bound in their coats, their hosen, and their hats, and their other garments, and were cast into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.

3:22    因為王命緊急，窯又甚熱，那抬沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌的人都被火焰燒死。
Therefore because the king's commandment was urgent, and the furnace exceeding hot, the flame of the fire slew those men that took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego.

3:23    沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌這三個人都被捆著落在烈火的窯中。
And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell down bound into the midst of the burning fiery furnace.

3:24    那時，尼布甲尼撒王驚奇，急忙起來，對謀士說，我捆起來扔在火裡的不是三個趟嗎。他們回答王說，王阿，是。
Then Nebuchadnezzar the king was astonied, and rose up in haste, and spake, and said unto his counsellors, Did not we cast three men bound into the midst of the fire? They answered and said unto the king, True, O king.

3:25    王說，看哪，我見有四個人，並沒有捆綁，在火中游行，也沒有受傷。那第四個的相貌好像神子。
He answered and said, Lo, I see four men loose, walking in the midst of the fire, and they have no hurt; and the form of the fourth is like the Son of God.

3:26    於是，尼布甲尼撒就近烈火窯門，說，至高神的僕人沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌出來，上這裡來吧。沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌就從火中出來了。
Then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the mouth of the burning fiery furnace, and spake, and said, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, ye servants of the most high God, come forth, and come hither. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, came forth of the midst of the fire.

3:27    那些總督，欽差，巡撫，和王的謀士一同聚集看這三個人，見火無力傷他們的身體，頭髮也沒有燒焦，衣裳也沒有變色，並沒有火燎的氣味。
And the princes, governors, and captains, and the king's counsellors, being gathered together, saw these men, upon whose bodies the fire had no power, nor was an hair of their head singed, neither were their coats changed, nor the smell of fire had passed on them.

3:28    尼布甲尼撒說，沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌的神是應當稱頌的。他差遣使者救護倚靠他的僕人，他們不遵王命，捨去己身，在他們神以外不肯事奉敬拜別神。
Then Nebuchadnezzar spake, and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, who hath sent his angel, and delivered his servants that trusted in him, and have changed the king's word, and yielded their bodies, that they might not serve nor worship any god, except their own God.

3:29    現在我降旨，無論何方，何國，何族的人，謗？？沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌之神的，必被凌遲，他的房屋必成糞堆，因為沒有別神能這樣施行拯救。
Therefore I make a decree, That every people, nation, and language, which speak any thing amiss against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be cut in pieces, and their houses shall be made a dunghill: because there is no other God that can deliver after this sort.

3:30    那時王在巴比倫省，高升了沙得拉，米煞，亞伯尼歌。
Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, in the province of Babylon.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


4:1    尼布甲尼撒王曉諭住在全地各方，各國，各族的人說，願你們大享平安。
Nebuchadnezzar the king, unto all people, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.

4:2    我樂意將至高的神向我所行的神蹟奇事宣揚出來。
I thought it good to shew the signs and wonders that the high God hath wrought toward me.

4:3    他的神蹟何其大。他的奇事何其盛。他的國是永遠的。他的權柄存到萬代。
How great are his signs! and how mighty are his wonders! his kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and his dominion is from generation to generation.

4:4    我尼布甲尼撒安居在宮中，平順在殿內。
I Nebuchadnezzar was at rest in mine house, and flourishing in my palace:

4:5    我作了一夢，使我懼怕。我在床上的思念，並腦中的異象，使我驚惶。
I saw a dream which made me afraid, and the thoughts upon my bed and the visions of my head troubled me.

4:6    所以我降旨召巴比倫的一切哲士到我面前，叫他們把夢的講解告訴我。
Therefore made I a decree to bring in all the wise men of Babylon before me, that they might make known unto me the interpretation of the dream.

4:7    於是那些術士，用法術的，迦勒底人，觀兆的都進來，我將那夢告訴了他們，他們卻不能把夢的講解告訴我。
Then came in the magicians, the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers: and I told the dream before them; but they did not make known unto me the interpretation thereof.

4:8    末後那照我神的名，稱為伯提沙撒的但以理來到我面前，他裡頭有聖神的靈，我將夢告訴他說，
But at the last Daniel came in before me, whose name was Belteshazzar, according to the name of my God, and in whom is the spirit of the holy gods: and before him I told the dream, saying,

4:9    術士的領袖伯提沙撒阿，因我知道你裡頭有聖神的靈，什麼奧祕的事都不能使你為難。現在要把我夢中所見的異象和夢的講解告訴我。
O Belteshazzar, master of the magicians, because I know that the spirit of the holy gods is in thee, and no secret troubleth thee, tell me the visions of my dream that I have seen, and the interpretation thereof.

4:10    我在床上腦中的異象是這樣，我看見地當中有一棵樹，極其高大。
Thus were the visions of mine head in my bed; I saw, and behold a tree in the midst of the earth, and the height thereof was great.

4:11    那樹漸長，而且堅固，高得頂天，從地極都能看見，
The tree grew, and was strong, and the height thereof reached unto heaven, and the sight thereof to the end of all the earth:

4:12    葉子華美，果子甚多，可作眾生的食物。田野的走獸臥在蔭下，天空的飛鳥宿在枝上。凡有血氣的都從這樹得食。
The leaves thereof were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was meat for all: the beasts of the field had shadow under it, and the fowls of the heaven dwelt in the boughs thereof, and all flesh was fed of it.

4:13    我在床上腦中的異象，見有一位守望的聖者從天而降。
I saw in the visions of my head upon my bed, and, behold, a watcher and an holy one came down from heaven;

4:14    大聲呼叫說，伐倒這樹。砍下枝子。搖掉葉子。拋散果子。使走獸離開樹下，飛鳥躲開樹枝。
He cried aloud, and said thus, Hew down the tree, and cut off his branches, shake off his leaves, and scatter his fruit: let the beasts get away from under it, and the fowls from his branches:

4:15    樹墩卻要留在地內，用鐵圈和銅圈箍住，在田野的青草中讓天露滴溼，使他與地上的獸一同吃草，
Nevertheless leave the stump of his roots in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts in the grass of the earth:

4:16    使他的心改變，不如人心。給他一個獸心，使他經過七期（期或作年。本章同）。
Let his heart be changed from man's, and let a beast's heart be given unto him; and let seven times pass over him.

4:17    這是守望者所發的命，聖者所出的令，好叫世人知道至高者在人的國中掌權，要將國賜與誰就賜與誰，或立極卑微的人執掌國權。
This matter is by the decree of the watchers, and the demand by the word of the holy ones: to the intent that the living may know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will, and setteth up over it the basest of men.

4:18    這是我尼布甲尼撒王所作的夢。伯提沙撒阿，你要說明這夢的講解。因為我國中的一切哲士都不能將夢的講解告訴我，惟獨你能，因你裡頭有聖神的靈。
This dream I king Nebuchadnezzar have seen. Now thou, O Belteshazzar, declare the interpretation thereof, forasmuch as all the wise men of my kingdom are not able to make known unto me the interpretation: but thou art able; for the spirit of the holy gods is in thee.

4:19    於是稱為伯提沙撒的但以理驚訝片時，心意驚惶。王說，伯提沙撒阿，不要因夢和夢的講解驚惶。伯提沙撒回答說，我主阿，願這夢歸與恨惡你的人，講解歸與你的敵人。
Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was astonied for one hour, and his thoughts troubled him. The king spake, and said, Belteshazzar, let not the dream, or the interpretation thereof, trouble thee. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord, the dream be to them that hate thee, and the interpretation thereof to thine enemies.

4:20    你所見的樹漸長，而且堅固，高得頂天，從地極都能看見。
The tree that thou sawest, which grew, and was strong, whose height reached unto the heaven, and the sight thereof to all the earth;

4:21    葉子華美，果子甚多，可作眾生的食物。田野的走獸住在其下。天空的飛鳥宿在枝上。
Whose leaves were fair, and the fruit thereof much, and in it was meat for all; under which the beasts of the field dwelt, and upon whose branches the fowls of the heaven had their habitation:

4:22    王阿，這漸長又堅固的樹就是你。你的威勢漸長及天，你的權柄管到地極。
It is thou, O king, that art grown and become strong: for thy greatness is grown, and reacheth unto heaven, and thy dominion to the end of the earth.

4:23    王既看見一位守望的聖者從天而降，說，將這樹砍伐毀壞，樹墩卻要留在地內，用鐵圈和銅圈箍住。在田野的青草中，讓天露滴溼，使他與地上的獸一同吃草，直到經過七期。
And whereas the king saw a watcher and an holy one coming down from heaven, and saying, Hew the tree down, and destroy it; yet leave the stump of the roots thereof in the earth, even with a band of iron and brass, in the tender grass of the field; and let it be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the field, till seven times pass over him;

4:24    王阿，講解就是這樣，臨到我主我王的事是出於至高者的命。
This is the interpretation, O king, and this is the decree of the most High, which is come upon my lord the king:

4:25    你必被趕出離開世人，與野地的獸同居，吃草如牛，被天露滴溼，且要經過七期。等你知道至高者在人的國中掌權，要將國賜與誰就賜與誰。
That they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and they shall wet thee with the dew of heaven, and seven times shall pass over thee, till thou know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will.

4:26    守望者既吩咐存留樹墩，等你知道諸天掌權，以後你的國必定歸你。
And whereas they commanded to leave the stump of the tree roots; thy kingdom shall be sure unto thee, after that thou shalt have known that the heavens do rule.

4:27    王阿，求你悅納我的諫言，以施行公義斷絕罪過，以憐憫窮人除掉罪孽，或者你的平安可以延長。
Wherefore, O king, let my counsel be acceptable unto thee, and break off thy sins by righteousness, and thine iniquities by shewing mercy to the poor; if it may be a lengthening of thy tranquillity.

4:28    這事都臨到尼布甲尼撒王。
All this came upon the king Nebuchadnezzar.

4:29    過了十二個月，他遊行在巴比倫王宮裡（原文作上）。
At the end of twelve months he walked in the palace of the kingdom of Babylon.

4:30    他說，這大巴比倫不是我用大能大力建為京都，要顯我威嚴的榮耀嗎。
The king spake, and said, Is not this great Babylon, that I have built for the house of the kingdom by the might of my power, and for the honour of my majesty?

4:31    這話在王口中尚未說完，有聲音從天降下，說，尼布甲尼撒王阿，有話對你說，你的國位離開你了。
While the word was in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven, saying, O king Nebuchadnezzar, to thee it is spoken; The kingdom is departed from thee.

4:32    你必被趕出離開世人，與野地的獸同居，吃草如牛，且要經過七期。等你知道至高者在人的國中掌權，要將國賜與誰就賜與誰。
And they shall drive thee from men, and thy dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field: they shall make thee to eat grass as oxen, and seven times shall pass over thee, until thou know that the most High ruleth in the kingdom of men, and giveth it to whomsoever he will.

4:33    當時這話就應驗在尼布甲尼撒的身上，他被趕出離開世人，吃草如牛，身被天露滴溼，頭髮長長，好像鷹毛。指甲長長，如同鳥爪。
The same hour was the thing fulfilled upon Nebuchadnezzar: and he was driven from men, and did eat grass as oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hairs were grown like eagles' feathers, and his nails like birds' claws.

4:34    日子滿足，我尼布甲尼撒舉目望天，我的聰明覆歸於我，我便稱頌至高者，讚美尊敬活到永遠的神。他的權柄是永有的。他的國存到萬代。
And at the end of the days I Nebuchadnezzar lifted up mine eyes unto heaven, and mine understanding returned unto me, and I blessed the most High, and I praised and honoured him that liveth for ever, whose dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom is from generation to generation:

4:35    世上所有的居民都算為虛無。在天上的萬軍和世上的居民中，他都憑自己的意旨行事。無人能攔住他手，或問他說，你做什麼呢。
And all the inhabitants of the earth are reputed as nothing: and he doeth according to his will in the army of heaven, and among the inhabitants of the earth: and none can stay his hand, or say unto him, What doest thou?

4:36    那時，我的聰明覆歸於我，為我國的榮耀，威嚴，和光耀也都復歸於我。並且我的謀士和大臣也來朝見我。我又得堅立在國位上，至大的權柄加增於我。
At the same time my reason returned unto me; and for the glory of my kingdom, mine honour and brightness returned unto me; and my counsellors and my lords sought unto me; and I was established in my kingdom, and excellent majesty was added unto me.

4:37    現在我尼布甲尼撒讚美，尊崇，恭敬天上的王。因為他所作的全都誠實，他所行的也都公平。那行動驕傲的，他能降為卑。
Now I Nebuchadnezzar praise and extol and honour the King of heaven, all whose works are truth, and his ways judgment: and those that walk in pride he is able to abase.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


5:1    伯沙撒王為他的一千大臣設擺盛筵，與這一千人對面飲酒。
Belshazzar the king made a great feast to a thousand of his lords, and drank wine before the thousand.

5:2    伯沙撒歡飲之間，吩咐人將他父（或作祖下同）尼布甲尼撒從耶路撒冷殿中所掠的金銀器皿拿來，王與大臣，皇后，妃嬪好用這器皿飲酒。
Belshazzar, whiles he tasted the wine, commanded to bring the golden and silver vessels which his father Nebuchadnezzar had taken out of the temple which was in Jerusalem; that the king, and his princes, his wives, and his concubines, might drink therein.

5:3    於是他們把耶路撒冷神殿庫房中所掠的金器皿拿來，王和大臣，皇后，妃嬪就用這器皿飲酒。
Then they brought the golden vessels that were taken out of the temple of the house of God which was at Jerusalem; and the king, and his princes, his wives, and his concubines, drank in them.

5:4    他們飲酒，讚美金，銀，銅，鐵，木，石所造的神。
They drank wine, and praised the gods of gold, and of silver, of brass, of iron, of wood, and of stone.

5:5    當時，忽有人的指頭顯出，在王宮與燈臺相對的粉牆上寫字。王看見寫字的指頭，
In the same hour came forth fingers of a man's hand, and wrote over against the candlestick upon the plaister of the wall of the king's palace: and the king saw the part of the hand that wrote.

5:6    就變了臉色，心意驚惶，腰骨好像脫節，雙膝彼此相碰，
Then the king's countenance was changed, and his thoughts troubled him, so that the joints of his loins were loosed, and his knees smote one against another.

5:7    大聲吩咐將用法術的和迦勒底人並觀兆的領進來，對巴比倫的哲士說，誰能讀這文字，把講解告訴我，他必身穿紫袍，項帶金鍊，在我國中位列第三。
The king cried aloud to bring in the astrologers, the Chaldeans, and the soothsayers. And the king spake, and said to the wise men of Babylon, Whosoever shall read this writing, and shew me the interpretation thereof, shall be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about his neck, and shall be the third ruler in the kingdom.

5:8    於是王的一切哲士都進來，卻不能讀那文字，也不能把講解告訴王。
Then came in all the king's wise men: but they could not read the writing, nor make known to the king the interpretation thereof.

5:9    伯沙撒王就甚驚惶，臉色改變，他的大臣也都驚奇。
Then was king Belshazzar greatly troubled, and his countenance was changed in him, and his lords were astonied.

5:10    太后（或作皇后下同）因王和他大臣所說的話，就進入宴宮，說，願王萬歲。你心意不要驚惶，臉面不要變色。
Now the queen by reason of the words of the king and his lords came into the banquet house: and the queen spake and said, O king, live for ever: let not thy thoughts trouble thee, nor let thy countenance be changed:

5:11    在你國中有一人，他裡頭有聖神的靈，你父在世的日子，這人心中光明，又有聰明智慧，好像神的智慧。你父尼布甲尼撒王，就是王的父，立他為術士，用法術的，和迦勒底人，並觀兆的領袖。
There is a man in thy kingdom, in whom is the spirit of the holy gods; and in the days of thy father light and understanding and wisdom, like the wisdom of the gods, was found in him; whom the king Nebuchadnezzar thy father, the king, I say, thy father, made master of the magicians, astrologers, Chaldeans, and soothsayers;

5:12    在他裡頭有美好的靈性，又有知識聰明，能圓夢，釋謎語，解疑惑。這人名叫但以理，尼布甲尼撒王又稱他為伯提沙撒，現在可以召他來，他必解明這意思。
Forasmuch as an excellent spirit, and knowledge, and understanding, interpreting of dreams, and shewing of hard sentences, and dissolving of doubts, were found in the same Daniel, whom the king named Belteshazzar: now let Daniel be called, and he will shew the interpretation.

5:13    但以理就被領到王前。王問但以理說，你是被擄之猶大人中的但以理嗎。就是我父王從猶大擄來的嗎。
Then was Daniel brought in before the king. And the king spake and said unto Daniel, Art thou that Daniel, which art of the children of the captivity of Judah, whom the king my father brought out of Jewry?

5:14    我聽說你裡頭有神的靈，心中光明，又有聰明和美好的智慧。
I have even heard of thee, that the spirit of the gods is in thee, and that light and understanding and excellent wisdom is found in thee.

5:15    現在哲士和用法術的都領到我面前，為叫他們讀這文字，把講解告訴我，無奈他們都不能把講解說出來。
And now the wise men, the astrologers, have been brought in before me, that they should read this writing, and make known unto me the interpretation thereof: but they could not shew the interpretation of the thing:

5:16    我聽說你善於講解，能解疑惑。現在你若能讀這文字，把講解告訴我，就必身穿紫袍，項戴金鍊，在我國中位列第三。
And I have heard of thee, that thou canst make interpretations, and dissolve doubts: now if thou canst read the writing, and make known to me the interpretation thereof, thou shalt be clothed with scarlet, and have a chain of gold about thy neck, and shalt be the third ruler in the kingdom.

5:17    但以理在王面前回答說，你的贈品可以歸你自己，你的賞賜可以歸給別人。我卻要為王讀這文字，把講解告訴王。
Then Daniel answered and said before the king, Let thy gifts be to thyself, and give thy rewards to another; yet I will read the writing unto the king, and make known to him the interpretation.

5:18    王阿，至高的神曾將國位，大權，榮耀，威嚴賜與你父尼布甲尼撒。
O thou king, the most high God gave Nebuchadnezzar thy father a kingdom, and majesty, and glory, and honour:

5:19    因神所賜他的大權，各方，各國，各族的人都在他面前山兢恐懼。他可以隨意生殺，隨意升降。
And for the majesty that he gave him, all people, nations, and languages, trembled and feared before him: whom he would he slew; and whom he would he kept alive; and whom he would he set up; and whom he would he put down.

5:20    但他心高氣傲，靈也剛愎，甚至行事狂傲，就被革去王位，奪去榮耀。
But when his heart was lifted up, and his mind hardened in pride, he was deposed from his kingly throne, and they took his glory from him:

5:21    他被趕出離開世人，他的心變如獸心，與野驢同居，吃草如牛，身被天露滴溼，等他知道至高的神在人的國中掌權，憑自己的意旨立人治國。
And he was driven from the sons of men; and his heart was made like the beasts, and his dwelling was with the wild asses: they fed him with grass like oxen, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven; till he knew that the most high God ruled in the kingdom of men, and that he appointeth over it whomsoever he will.

5:22    伯沙撒阿，你是他的兒子（或作孫子），你雖知道這一切，你心仍不自卑，
And thou his son, O Belshazzar, hast not humbled thine heart, though thou knewest all this;

5:23    竟向天上的主自高，使人將他殿中的器皿拿到你面前，你和大臣，皇后，妃嬪用這器皿飲酒。你又讚美那不能看，不能聽，無知無識，金，銀，銅，鐵，木，石所造的神，卻沒有將榮耀歸於那手中有你氣息，管理你一切行動的神。
But hast lifted up thyself against the Lord of heaven; and they have brought the vessels of his house before thee, and thou, and thy lords, thy wives, and thy concubines, have drunk wine in them; and thou hast praised the gods of silver, and gold, of brass, iron, wood, and stone, which see not, nor hear, nor know: and the God in whose hand thy breath is, and whose are all thy ways, hast thou not glorified:

5:24    因此從神那裡顯出指頭來寫這文字。
Then was the part of the hand sent from him; and this writing was written.

5:25    所寫的文字是，彌尼，彌尼，提客勒，烏法珥新。
And this is the writing that was written, MENE, MENE, TEKEL, UPHARSIN.

5:26    講解是這樣，彌尼，就是神已經數算你國的年日到此完畢。
This is the interpretation of the thing: MENE; God hath numbered thy kingdom, and finished it.

5:27    提客勒，就是你被稱在天平裡，顯出你的虧欠。
TEKEL; Thou art weighed in the balances, and art found wanting.

5:28    毗勒斯（與烏法珥新同義），就是你的國分裂，歸與瑪代人和波斯人。
PERES; Thy kingdom is divided, and given to the Medes and Persians.

5:29    伯沙撒下令，人就把紫袍給但以理穿上，把金鍊給他戴在頸項上，又傳令使他在國中位列第三。
Then commanded Belshazzar, and they clothed Daniel with scarlet, and put a chain of gold about his neck, and made a proclamation concerning him, that he should be the third ruler in the kingdom.

5:30    當夜，迦勒底王伯沙撒被殺。
In that night was Belshazzar the king of the Chaldeans slain.

5:31    瑪代人大流士年六十二歲，取了迦勒底國。
And Darius the Median took the kingdom, being about threescore and two years old.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


6:1    大流士隨心所願，立一百二十個總督，治理通國。
It pleased Darius to set over the kingdom an hundred and twenty princes, which should be over the whole kingdom;

6:2    又在他們以上立總長三人（但以理在其中），使總督在他們三人面前回覆事務，免得王受虧損。
And over these three presidents; of whom Daniel was first: that the princes might give accounts unto them, and the king should have no damage.

6:3    因這但以理有美好的靈性，所以顯然超乎其餘的總長和總督，王又想立他治理通國。
Then this Daniel was preferred above the presidents and princes, because an excellent spirit was in him; and the king thought to set him over the whole realm.

6:4    那時，總長和總督尋梢但以理誤國的把柄，為要叄他。只是找不著他的錯誤過失，因他忠心辦事，毫無錯誤過失。
Then the presidents and princes sought to find occasion against Daniel concerning the kingdom; but they could find none occasion nor fault; forasmuch as he was faithful, neither was there any error or fault found in him.

6:5    那些人便說，我們要找叄這但以理的把柄，除非在他神的律法中就尋不著。
Then said these men, We shall not find any occasion against this Daniel, except we find it against him concerning the law of his God.

6:6    於是，總長和總督紛紛聚集來見王，說，願大流士王萬歲。
Then these presidents and princes assembled together to the king, and said thus unto him, King Darius, live for ever.

6:7    國中的總長，欽差，總督，謀士，和巡撫彼此商議，要立一條堅定的禁令（或作求王下旨要立一條云云），三十日內，不拘何人，若在王以外，或向神或向人求什麼，就必扔在獅子坑中。
All the presidents of the kingdom, the governors, and the princes, the counsellors, and the captains, have consulted together to establish a royal statute, and to make a firm decree, that whosoever shall ask a petition of any God or man for thirty days, save of thee, O king, he shall be cast into the den of lions.

6:8    王阿，現在求你立這禁令，加蓋玉璽，使禁令決不更改。照瑪代和波斯人的例是不可更改的。
Now, O king, establish the decree, and sign the writing, that it be not changed, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.

6:9    於是大流士王立這禁令，加蓋玉璽。
Wherefore king Darius signed the writing and the decree.

6:10    但以理知道這禁令蓋了玉璽，就到自己家裡（他樓上的窗戶開向耶路撒冷），一日三次，雙膝跪在他神面前，禱告感謝，與素常一樣。
Now when Daniel knew that the writing was signed, he went into his house; and his windows being open in his chamber toward Jerusalem, he kneeled upon his knees three times a day, and prayed, and gave thanks before his God, as he did aforetime.

6:11    那些人就紛紛聚集，見但以理在他神面前祈禱懇求。
Then these men assembled, and found Daniel praying and making supplication before his God.

6:12    他們便進到王前，提王的禁令，說，王阿，三十日內不拘何人，若在王以外，或向神或向人求什麼，必被扔在獅子坑中。王不是在這禁令上蓋了玉璽嗎。王回答說，實有這事，照瑪代。
Then they came near, and spake before the king concerning the king's decree; Hast thou not signed a decree, that every man that shall ask a petition of any God or man within thirty days, save of thee, O king, shall be cast into the den of lions? The king answered and said, The thing is true, according to the law of the Medes and Persians, which altereth not.

6:13    他們對王說，王阿，那被擄之猶大人中的但以理不理你，也不遵你蓋了玉璽的禁令，他竟一日三次祈禱。
Then answered they and said before the king, That Daniel, which is of the children of the captivity of Judah, regardeth not thee, O king, nor the decree that thou hast signed, but maketh his petition three times a day.

6:14    王聽見這話，就甚愁煩，一心要救但以理，籌劃解救他，直到日落的時候。
Then the king, when he heard these words, was sore displeased with himself, and set his heart on Daniel to deliver him: and he laboured till the going down of the sun to deliver him.

6:15    那些人就紛紛聚集來見王，說，王阿，當知道瑪代人和波斯人有例，凡王所立的禁令和律例都不可更改。
Then these men assembled unto the king, and said unto the king, Know, O king, that the law of the Medes and Persians is, That no decree nor statute which the king establisheth may be changed.

6:16    王下令，人就把但以理帶來，扔在獅子坑中。王對但以理說，你所常事奉的神，他必救你。
Then the king commanded, and they brought Daniel, and cast him into the den of lions. Now the king spake and said unto Daniel, Thy God whom thou servest continually, he will deliver thee.

6:17    有人搬石頭放在坑口，王用自己的璽和大臣的印，封閉那坑，使懲辦但以理的事毫無更改。
And a stone was brought, and laid upon the mouth of the den; and the king sealed it with his own signet, and with the signet of his lords; that the purpose might not be changed concerning Daniel.

6:18    王回宮，終夜禁食，無人拿樂器到他面前，並且睡不著覺。
Then the king went to his palace, and passed the night fasting: neither were instruments of musick brought before him: and his sleep went from him.

6:19    次日黎明，王就起來，急忙往獅子坑那裡去。
Then the king arose very early in the morning, and went in haste unto the den of lions.

6:20    臨近坑邊，哀聲呼叫但以理，對但以理說，永生神的僕人但以理阿，你所常事奉的神能救你脫離獅子嗎。
And when he came to the den, he cried with a lamentable voice unto Daniel: and the king spake and said to Daniel, O Daniel, servant of the living God, is thy God, whom thou servest continually, able to deliver thee from the lions?

6:21    但以理對王說，願王萬歲。
Then said Daniel unto the king, O king, live for ever.

6:22    我的神差遣使者，封住獅子的口，叫獅子不傷我。因我在神面前無辜，我在王面前也沒有行過虧損的事。
My God hath sent his angel, and hath shut the lions' mouths, that they have not hurt me: forasmuch as before him innocency was found in me; and also before thee, O king, have I done no hurt.

6:23    王就甚喜樂，吩咐人將但以理從坑裡繫上來。於是但以理從坑裡被繫上來，身上毫無傷損，因為信靠他的神。
Then was the king exceeding glad for him, and commanded that they should take Daniel up out of the den. So Daniel was taken up out of the den, and no manner of hurt was found upon him, because he believed in his God.

6:24    王下令，人就把那些控告但以理的人，連他們的妻子兒女都帶來，扔在獅子坑中。他們還沒有到坑底，獅子就抓住（原文作勝了）他們，咬碎他們的骨頭。
And the king commanded, and they brought those men which had accused Daniel, and they cast them into the den of lions, them, their children, and their wives; and the lions had the mastery of them, and brake all their bones in pieces or ever they came at the bottom of the den.

6:25    那時，大流士王傳旨，曉諭住在全地各方，各國，各族的人說，願你們大享平安。
Then king Darius wrote unto all people, nations, and languages, that dwell in all the earth; Peace be multiplied unto you.

6:26    現在我降旨曉諭我所統轄的全國人民，要在但以理的神面前，戰兢恐懼。因為他是永遠長存的活神，他的國永不敗壞。他的權柄永存無極。
I make a decree, That in every dominion of my kingdom men tremble and fear before the God of Daniel: for he is the living God, and stedfast for ever, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed, and his dominion shall be even unto the end.

6:27    他護庇人，搭救人，在天上地下施行神蹟奇事，救了但以理脫離獅子的口。
He delivereth and rescueth, and he worketh signs and wonders in heaven and in earth, who hath delivered Daniel from the power of the lions.

6:28    如此，這但以理當大流士王在位的時候，和波斯王居魯士在位的時候，大享亨通。
So this Daniel prospered in the reign of Darius, and in the reign of Cyrus the Persian.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


7:1    巴比倫王伯沙撒元年，但以理在床上作夢，見了腦中的異象，就記錄這夢，述說其中的大意。
In the first year of Belshazzar king of Babylon Daniel had a dream and visions of his head upon his bed: then he wrote the dream, and told the sum of the matters.

7:2    但以理說，我夜裡見異象，看見天的四風陡起，刮在大海之上。
Daniel spake and said, I saw in my vision by night, and, behold, the four winds of the heaven strove upon the great sea.

7:3    有四個大獸從海中上來，形狀各有不同，
And four great beasts came up from the sea, diverse one from another.

7:4    頭一個像獅子，有鷹的翅膀。我正觀看的時候，獸的翅膀被拔去，獸從地上得立起來，用兩腳站立，像人一樣，又得了人心。
The first was like a lion, and had eagle's wings: I beheld till the wings thereof were plucked, and it was lifted up from the earth, and made stand upon the feet as a man, and a man's heart was given to it.

7:5    又有一獸如熊，就是第二獸，旁跨而坐，口齒內銜著三根肋骨。有吩咐這獸的說，起來吞吃多肉。
And behold another beast, a second, like to a bear, and it raised up itself on one side, and it had three ribs in the mouth of it between the teeth of it: and they said thus unto it, Arise, devour much flesh.

7:6    此後我觀看，又有一獸如豹，背上有鳥的四個翅膀。這獸有四個頭，又得了權柄。
After this I beheld, and lo another, like a leopard, which had upon the back of it four wings of a fowl; the beast had also four heads; and dominion was given to it.

7:7    其後我在夜間的異象中觀看，見第四獸甚是可怕，極其強壯，大有力量，有大鐵牙，吞吃嚼碎，所剩下的用腳踐踏。這獸與前三獸大不相同，頭有十角。
After this I saw in the night visions, and behold a fourth beast, dreadful and terrible, and strong exceedingly; and it had great iron teeth: it devoured and brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with the feet of it: and it was diverse from all the beasts that were before it; and it had ten horns.

7:8    我正觀看這些角，見其中又長起一個小角。先前的角中有三角在這角前，連根被它拔出來。這角有眼，像人的眼，有口說誇大的話。
I considered the horns, and, behold, there came up among them another little horn, before whom there were three of the first horns plucked up by the roots: and, behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of man, and a mouth speaking great things.

7:9    我觀看，見有寶座設立，上頭坐著亙古常在者。他的衣服潔白如雪，頭髮如純淨的羊毛。寶座乃火焰，其輪乃烈火。
I beheld till the thrones were cast down, and the Ancient of days did sit, whose garment was white as snow, and the hair of his head like the pure wool: his throne was like the fiery flame, and his wheels as burning fire.

7:10    從他面前有火，像河發出。事奉他的有千千，在他面前侍立的有萬萬。他坐著要行審判，案卷都展開了。
A fiery stream issued and came forth from before him: thousand thousands ministered unto him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him: the judgment was set, and the books were opened.

7:11    那時我觀看，見那獸因小角說誇大話的聲音被殺，身體損壞，扔在火中焚燒。
I beheld then because of the voice of the great words which the horn spake: I beheld even till the beast was slain, and his body destroyed, and given to the burning flame.

7:12    其餘的獸，權柄都被奪去，生命卻仍存留，直到所定的時候和日期。
As concerning the rest of the beasts, they had their dominion taken away: yet their lives were prolonged for a season and time.

7:13    我在夜間的異象中觀看，見有一位像人子的，駕著天雲而來，被領到亙古常在者面前，
I saw in the night visions, and, behold, one like the Son of man came with the clouds of heaven, and came to the Ancient of days, and they brought him near before him.

7:14    得了權柄，榮耀，國度，使各方，各國，各族的人都事奉他。他的權柄是永遠的，不能廢去。他的國必不敗壞。
And there was given him dominion, and glory, and a kingdom, that all people, nations, and languages, should serve him: his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom that which shall not be destroyed.

7:15    至於我但以理，我的靈在我裡面愁煩，我腦中的異象使我驚惶。
I Daniel was grieved in my spirit in the midst of my body, and the visions of my head troubled me.

7:16    我就近一位侍立者，問他這一切的真情。他就告訴我，將那事的講解給我說明。
I came near unto one of them that stood by, and asked him the truth of all this. So he told me, and made me know the interpretation of the things.

7:17    這四個大獸就是四王將要在世上興起。
These great beasts, which are four, are four kings, which shall arise out of the earth.

7:18    然而，至高者的聖民，必要得國享受，直到永永遠遠。
But the saints of the most High shall take the kingdom, and possess the kingdom for ever, even for ever and ever.

7:19    那時我願知道第四獸的真情，它為何與那三獸的真情大不相同，甚是可怕，有鐵牙銅爪，吞吃嚼碎，所剩下的用腳踐踏。
Then I would know the truth of the fourth beast, which was diverse from all the others, exceeding dreadful, whose teeth were of iron, and his nails of brass; which devoured, brake in pieces, and stamped the residue with his feet;

7:20    頭有十角和那另長的一角，在這角前有三角被它打落。這角有眼，有說誇大話的口，形狀強橫，過於它的同類。
And of the ten horns that were in his head, and of the other which came up, and before whom three fell; even of that horn that had eyes, and a mouth that spake very great things, whose look was more stout than his fellows.

7:21    我觀看，見這角與聖民爭戰，勝了他們。
I beheld, and the same horn made war with the saints, and prevailed against them;

7:22    直到亙古常在者來給至高者的聖民伸冤，聖民得國的時候就到了。
Until the Ancient of days came, and judgment was given to the saints of the most High; and the time came that the saints possessed the kingdom.

7:23    那侍立者這樣說，第四獸就是世上必有的第四國，與一切國大不相同，必吞吃全地，並且踐踏嚼碎。
Thus he said, The fourth beast shall be the fourth kingdom upon earth, which shall be diverse from all kingdoms, and shall devour the whole earth, and shall tread it down, and break it in pieces.

7:24    至於那十角，就是從這國中必興起的十王，後來又興起一王，與先前的不同。他必制伏三王。
And the ten horns out of this kingdom are ten kings that shall arise: and another shall rise after them; and he shall be diverse from the first, and he shall subdue three kings.

7:25    他必向至高者說誇大的話，必折磨至高者的聖民，必想改變節期和律法。聖民必交付他手一載，二載，半載。
And he shall speak great words against the most High, and shall wear out the saints of the most High, and think to change times and laws: and they shall be given into his hand until a time and times and the dividing of time.

7:26    然而，審判者必坐著行審判。他的權柄必被奪去，毀壞，滅絕，一直到底。
But the judgment shall sit, and they shall take away his dominion, to consume and to destroy it unto the end.

7:27    國度，權柄，和天下諸國的大權必賜給至高者的聖民。他的國是永遠的。一切掌權的都必事奉他，順從他。
And the kingdom and dominion, and the greatness of the kingdom under the whole heaven, shall be given to the people of the saints of the most High, whose kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him.

7:28    那事至此完畢。至於我但以理，心中甚是驚惶，臉色也改變了，卻將那事存記在心。
Hitherto is the end of the matter. As for me Daniel, my cogitations much troubled me, and my countenance changed in me: but I kept the matter in my heart.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


8:1    伯沙撒王在位第三年，有異象現與我但以理，是在先前所見的異象之後。
In the third year of the reign of king Belshazzar a vision appeared unto me, even unto me Daniel, after that which appeared unto me at the first.

8:2    我見了異象的時候，我以為在以攔省書珊城（或作宮）中。我見異象又如在烏萊河邊。
And I saw in a vision; and it came to pass, when I saw, that I was at Shushan in the palace, which is in the province of Elam; and I saw in a vision, and I was by the river of Ulai.

8:3    我舉目觀看，見有雙角的公綿羊站在河邊，兩角都高。這角高過那角，更高的是後長的。
Then I lifted up mine eyes, and saw, and, behold, there stood before the river a ram which had two horns: and the two horns were high; but one was higher than the other, and the higher came up last.

8:4    我見那公綿羊往西，往北，往南牴觸。獸在它面前都站立不住，也沒有能救護脫離它手的。但它任意而行，自高自大。
I saw the ram pushing westward, and northward, and southward; so that no beasts might stand before him, neither was there any that could deliver out of his hand; but he did according to his will, and became great.

8:5    我正思想的時候，見有一隻公山羊從西而來，遍行全地，腳不沾塵。這山羊兩眼當中有一非常的角。
And as I was considering, behold, an he goat came from the west on the face of the whole earth, and touched not the ground: and the goat had a notable horn between his eyes.

8:6    它往我所看見，站在河邊有雙角的公綿羊那裡去，大發忿怒，向它直闖。
And he came to the ram that had two horns, which I had seen standing before the river, and ran unto him in the fury of his power.

8:7    我見公山羊就近公綿羊，向它發烈怒，牴觸它，折斷它的兩角。綿羊在它面前刪立不住。它將綿羊觸倒在地，用腳踐踏，沒有能救綿羊脫離它手的。
And I saw him come close unto the ram, and he was moved with choler against him, and smote the ram, and brake his two horns: and there was no power in the ram to stand before him, but he cast him down to the ground, and stamped upon him: and there was none that could deliver the ram out of his hand.

8:8    這山羊極其自高自大，正強盛的時候，那大角折斷了，又在角根上向天的四方（方原文作風）長出四個非常的角來。
Therefore the he goat waxed very great: and when he was strong, the great horn was broken; and for it came up four notable ones toward the four winds of heaven.

8:9    四角之中有一角長出一個小角，向南，向東，向榮美之地，漸漸成為強大。
And out of one of them came forth a little horn, which waxed exceeding great, toward the south, and toward the east, and toward the pleasant land.

8:10    它漸漸強大，高及天象，將些天象和星宿拋落在地，用腳踐踏。
And it waxed great, even to the host of heaven; and it cast down some of the host and of the stars to the ground, and stamped upon them.

8:11    並且它自高自大，以為高及天象之君。除掉常獻給君的燔祭，毀壞君的聖所。
Yea, he magnified himself even to the prince of the host, and by him the daily sacrifice was taken away, and the place of his sanctuary was cast down.

8:12    因罪過的緣故，有軍旅和常獻的燔祭交付它。它將真理拋在地上，任意而行，無不順利。
And an host was given him against the daily sacrifice by reason of transgression, and it cast down the truth to the ground; and it practised, and prospered.

8:13    我聽見有一位聖者說話，又有一位聖者問那說話的聖者說，這除掉常獻的燔祭和施行毀壞的罪過，將聖所與軍旅（或作以色列的軍）踐踏的異象，要到幾時才應驗呢。
Then I heard one saint speaking, and another saint said unto that certain saint which spake, How long shall be the vision concerning the daily sacrifice, and the transgression of desolation, to give both the sanctuary and the host to be trodden under foot?

8:14    他對我說，到二千三百日，聖所就必潔淨。
And he said unto me, Unto two thousand and three hundred days; then shall the sanctuary be cleansed.

8:15    我但以理見了這異象，願意明白其中的意思。忽有一位形狀像人的站在我面前。
And it came to pass, when I, even I Daniel, had seen the vision, and sought for the meaning, then, behold, there stood before me as the appearance of a man.

8:16    我又聽見烏萊河兩岸中有人聲呼叫說，加百列阿，要使此人明白這異象。
And I heard a man's voice between the banks of Ulai, which called, and said, Gabriel, make this man to understand the vision.

8:17    他便來到我所站的地方。他一來，我就驚慌俯伏在地。他對我說，人子阿，你要明白，因為這是關乎末後的異象。
So he came near where I stood: and when he came, I was afraid, and fell upon my face: but he said unto me, Understand, O son of man: for at the time of the end shall be the vision.

8:18    他與我說話的時候，我面伏在地沉睡。他就摸我，扶我站起來，
Now as he was speaking with me, I was in a deep sleep on my face toward the ground: but he touched me, and set me upright.

8:19    說，我要指示你惱怒臨完必有的事，因為這是關乎末後的定期。
And he said, Behold, I will make thee know what shall be in the last end of the indignation: for at the time appointed the end shall be.

8:20    你所看見雙角的公綿羊，就是瑪代和波斯王。
The ram which thou sawest having two horns are the kings of Media and Persia.

8:21    那公山羊就是希臘王（希臘原文作雅完下同）。兩眼當中的大角就是頭一王。
And the rough goat is the king of Grecia: and the great horn that is between his eyes is the first king.

8:22    至於那折斷了的角，在其根上又長出四角，這四角就是四國，必從這國裡興起來，只是權勢都不及他。
Now that being broken, whereas four stood up for it, four kingdoms shall stand up out of the nation, but not in his power.

8:23    這四國末時，犯法的人罪惡滿盈，必有一王興起，面貌凶惡，能用雙關的詐語。
And in the latter time of their kingdom, when the transgressors are come to the full, a king of fierce countenance, and understanding dark sentences, shall stand up.

8:24    他的權柄必大，卻不是因自己的能力。他必行非常的毀滅，事情順利，任意而行。又必毀滅有能力的和聖民。
And his power shall be mighty, but not by his own power: and he shall destroy wonderfully, and shall prosper, and practise, and shall destroy the mighty and the holy people.

8:25    他用權術成就手中的詭計，心裡自高自大，在人坦然無備的時候，毀滅多人。又要站起來攻擊萬君之君，至終卻非因人手而滅亡。
And through his policy also he shall cause craft to prosper in his hand; and he shall magnify himself in his heart, and by peace shall destroy many: he shall also stand up against the Prince of princes; but he shall be broken without hand.

8:26    所說二千三百日的異象是真的，但你要將這異象封住，因為關乎後來許多的日子。
And the vision of the evening and the morning which was told is true: wherefore shut thou up the vision; for it shall be for many days.

8:27    於是我但以理昏迷不醒，病了數日，然後起來辦理王的事務。我因這異象驚奇，卻無人能明白其中的意思。
And I Daniel fainted, and was sick certain days; afterward I rose up, and did the king's business; and I was astonished at the vision, but none understood it.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


9:1    瑪代族亞哈隨魯的兒子大流士立為迦勒底國的王元年，
In the first year of Darius the son of Ahasuerus, of the seed of the Medes, which was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans;

9:2    就是他在位第一年，我但以理從書上得知耶和華的話臨到先知耶利米，論耶路撒冷荒涼的年數，七十年為滿。
In the first year of his reign I Daniel understood by books the number of the years, whereof the word of the LORD came to Jeremiah the prophet, that he would accomplish seventy years in the desolations of Jerusalem.

9:3    我便禁食，披麻蒙灰，定意向主神祈禱懇求。
And I set my face unto the Lord God, to seek by prayer and supplications, with fasting, and sackcloth, and ashes:

9:4    我向耶和華我的神祈禱，認罪，說，主阿，大而可畏的神，向愛主，守主誡命的人守約施慈愛。
And I prayed unto the LORD my God, and made my confession, and said, O Lord, the great and dreadful God, keeping the covenant and mercy to them that love him, and to them that keep his commandments;

9:5    我們犯罪作孽，行惡叛逆，偏離你的誡命典章，
We have sinned, and have committed iniquity, and have done wickedly, and have rebelled, even by departing from thy precepts and from thy judgments:

9:6    沒有聽從你僕人眾先知奉你名向我們君王，首領，列祖，和國中一切百姓所說的話。
Neither have we hearkened unto thy servants the prophets, which spake in thy name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land.

9:7    主阿，你是公義的，我們是臉上蒙羞的。因我們猶大人和耶路撒冷的居民，並以色列眾人，或在近處，或在遠處，被你趕到各國的人，都得罪了你，正如今日一樣。
O LORD, righteousness belongeth unto thee, but unto us confusion of faces, as at this day; to the men of Judah, and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and unto all Israel, that are near, and that are far off, through all the countries whither thou hast driven them, because of their trespass that they have trespassed against thee.

9:8    主阿，我們和我們的君王，首領，列祖因得罪了你，就都臉上蒙羞。
O Lord, to us belongeth confusion of face, to our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against thee.

9:9    主我們的神是憐憫饒恕人的，我們卻違背了他，
To the Lord our God belong mercies and forgivenesses, though we have rebelled against him;

9:10    也沒有聽從耶和華我們神的話，沒有遵行他藉僕人眾先知向我們所陳明的律法。
Neither have we obeyed the voice of the LORD our God, to walk in his laws, which he set before us by his servants the prophets.

9:11    以色列眾人都犯了你的律法，偏行，不聽從你的話。因此，在你僕人摩西律法上所寫的咒詛和誓言都傾在我們身上，因我們得罪了神。
Yea, all Israel have transgressed thy law, even by departing, that they might not obey thy voice; therefore the curse is poured upon us, and the oath that is written in the law of Moses the servant of God, because we have sinned against him.

9:12    他使大災禍臨到我們，成就了警戒我們和審判我們官長的話。原來在普天之下未曾行過像在耶路撒冷所行的。
And he hath confirmed his words, which he spake against us, and against our judges that judged us, by bringing upon us a great evil: for under the whole heaven hath not been done as hath been done upon Jerusalem.

9:13    這一切災禍臨到我們身上是照摩西律法上所寫的，我們卻沒有求耶和華我們神的恩典，使我們回頭離開罪孽，明白你的真理。
As it is written in the law of Moses, all this evil is come upon us: yet made we not our prayer before the LORD our God, that we might turn from our iniquities, and understand thy truth.

9:14    所以耶和華留意使這災禍臨到我們身上，因為耶和華我們的神在他所行的事上都是公義。我們並沒有聽從他的話。
Therefore hath the LORD watched upon the evil, and brought it upon us: for the LORD our God is righteous in all his works which he doeth: for we obeyed not his voice.

9:15    主我們的神阿，你曾用大能的手領你的子民出埃及地，使自己得了名，正如今日一樣。我們犯了罪，作了惡。
And now, O Lord our God, that hast brought thy people forth out of the land of Egypt with a mighty hand, and hast gotten thee renown, as at this day; we have sinned, we have done wickedly.

9:16    主阿，求你按你的大仁大義，使你的怒氣和忿怒轉離你的城耶路撒冷，就是你的聖山。耶路撒冷和你的子民，因我們的罪惡和我們列祖的罪孽被四圍的人羞辱。
O LORD, according to all thy righteousness, I beseech thee, let thine anger and thy fury be turned away from thy city Jerusalem, thy holy mountain: because for our sins, and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and thy people are become a reproach to all that are about us.

9:17    我們的神阿，現在求你垂聽僕人的祈禱懇求，為自己使臉光照你荒涼的聖所。
Now therefore, O our God, hear the prayer of thy servant, and his supplications, and cause thy face to shine upon thy sanctuary that is desolate, for the Lord's sake.

9:18    我的神阿，求你側耳而聽，睜眼而看，眷顧我們荒涼之地和稱為你名下的城。我們在你面前懇求，原不是因自己的義，乃因你的大憐憫。
O my God, incline thine ear, and hear; open thine eyes, and behold our desolations, and the city which is called by thy name: for we do not present our supplications before thee for our righteousnesses, but for thy great mercies.

9:19    求主垂聽，求主赦免，求主應允而行，為你自己不要遲延。我的神阿，因這城和這民都是稱為你名下的。
O Lord, hear; O Lord, forgive; O Lord, hearken and do; defer not, for thine own sake, O my God: for thy city and thy people are called by thy name.

9:20    我說話，禱告，承認我的罪和本國之民以色列的罪，為我神的聖山，在耶和華我神面前懇求。
And whiles I was speaking, and praying, and confessing my sin and the sin of my people Israel, and presenting my supplication before the LORD my God for the holy mountain of my God;

9:21    我正禱告的時候，先前在異象中所見的那位加百列，奉命迅速飛來，約在獻晚祭的時候，按手在我身上。
Yea, whiles I was speaking in prayer, even the man Gabriel, whom I had seen in the vision at the beginning, being caused to fly swiftly, touched me about the time of the evening oblation.

9:22    他指教我說，但以理阿，現在我出來要使你有智慧，有聰明。
And he informed me, and talked with me, and said, O Daniel, I am now come forth to give thee skill and understanding.

9:23    你初懇求的時候，就發出命令，我來告訴你，因你大蒙眷愛。所以你要思想明白這以下的事和異象。
At the beginning of thy supplications the commandment came forth, and I am come to shew thee; for thou art greatly beloved: therefore understand the matter, and consider the vision.

9:24    為你本國之民和你聖城，已經定了七十個七。要止住罪過，除淨罪惡，贖盡罪孽，引進（或作彰顯）永義，封住異象和預言，並膏至聖者（者或作所）。
Seventy weeks are determined upon thy people and upon thy holy city, to finish the transgression, and to make an end of sins, and to make reconciliation for iniquity, and to bring in everlasting righteousness, and to seal up the vision and prophecy, and to anoint the most Holy.

9:25    你當知道，當明白，從出令重新建造耶路撒冷，直到有受膏君的時候，必有七個七和六十二個七。正在艱難的時候，耶路撒冷城連街帶濠都必重新建造。
Know therefore and understand, that from the going forth of the commandment to restore and to build Jerusalem unto the Messiah the Prince shall be seven weeks, and threescore and two weeks: the street shall be built again, and the wall, even in troublous times.

9:26    過了六十二個七，那（或作有）受膏者必被剪除，一無所有。必有一王的民來毀滅這城和聖所，至終必如洪水衝沒。必有爭戰，一直到底，荒涼的事已經定了。
And after threescore and two weeks shall Messiah be cut off, but not for himself: and the people of the prince that shall come shall destroy the city and the sanctuary; and the end thereof shall be with a flood, and unto the end of the war desolations are determined.

9:27    一七之內，他必與許多人堅定盟約。一七之半，他必使祭祀與供獻止息。那行毀壞可憎的（或作使地荒涼的）如飛而來，並且有忿怒傾在那行毀壞的身上（或作傾在那荒涼之地），直到所定的結局。
And he shall confirm the covenant with many for one week: and in the midst of the week he shall cause the sacrifice and the oblation to cease, and for the overspreading of abominations he shall make it desolate, even until the consummation, and that determined shall be poured upon the desolate.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


10:1    波斯王居魯士第三年，有事顯給稱為伯提沙撒的但以理。這事是真的，是指著大爭戰。但以理通達這事，明白這異象。
In the third year of Cyrus king of Persia a thing was revealed unto Daniel, whose name was called Belteshazzar; and the thing was true, but the time appointed was long: and he understood the thing, and had understanding of the vision.

10:2    當那時，我但以理悲傷了三個七日。
In those days I Daniel was mourning three full weeks.

10:3    美味我沒有吃，酒肉沒有入我的口，也沒有用油抹我的身，直到滿了三個七日。
I ate no pleasant bread, neither came flesh nor wine in my mouth, neither did I anoint myself at all, till three whole weeks were fulfilled.

10:4    正月二十四日，我在希底結大河邊，
And in the four and twentieth day of the first month, as I was by the side of the great river, which is Hiddekel;

10:5    舉目觀看，見有一人身穿細麻衣，腰束烏法精金帶。
Then I lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a certain man clothed in linen, whose loins were girded with fine gold of Uphaz:

10:6    他身體如水蒼玉，面貌如閃電，眼目如火把，手和腳如光明的銅，說話的聲音如大眾的聲音。
His body also was like the beryl, and his face as the appearance of lightning, and his eyes as lamps of fire, and his arms and his feet like in colour to polished brass, and the voice of his words like the voice of a multitude.

10:7    這異象惟有我但以理一人看見，同著我的人沒有看見。他們卻大大戰兢，逃跑隱藏，
And I Daniel alone saw the vision: for the men that were with me saw not the vision; but a great quaking fell upon them, so that they fled to hide themselves.

10:8    只剩下我一人。我見了這大異象便渾身無力，面貌失色，毫無氣力。
Therefore I was left alone, and saw this great vision, and there remained no strength in me: for my comeliness was turned in me into corruption, and I retained no strength.

10:9    我卻聽見他說話的聲音，一聽見就面伏在地沉睡了。
Yet heard I the voice of his words: and when I heard the voice of his words, then was I in a deep sleep on my face, and my face toward the ground.

10:10    忽然，有一手按在我身上，使我用膝和手掌支援微起。
And, behold, an hand touched me, which set me upon my knees and upon the palms of my hands.

10:11    他對我說，大蒙眷愛的但以理阿，要明白我與你所說的話，只管站起來，因為我現在奉差遣來到你這裡。他對我說這話，我便戰戰兢兢地立起來。
And he said unto me, O Daniel, a man greatly beloved, understand the words that I speak unto thee, and stand upright: for unto thee am I now sent. And when he had spoken this word unto me, I stood trembling.

10:12    他就說，但以理阿，不要懼怕。因為從你第一日專心求明白將來的事，又在你神面前刻苦己心，你的言語已蒙應允。我是因你的言語而來。
Then said he unto me, Fear not, Daniel: for from the first day that thou didst set thine heart to understand, and to chasten thyself before thy God, thy words were heard, and I am come for thy words.

10:13    但波斯國的魔君攔阻我二十一日。忽然有大君（就是天使長。二十一節同）中的一位米迦勒來幫助我，我就停留在波斯諸王那裡。
But the prince of the kingdom of Persia withstood me one and twenty days: but, lo, Michael, one of the chief princes, came to help me; and I remained there with the kings of Persia.

10:14    現在我來，要使你明白本國之民日後必遭遇的事，因為這異象關乎後來許多的日子。
Now I am come to make thee understand what shall befall thy people in the latter days: for yet the vision is for many days.

10:15    他向我這樣說，我就臉面朝地，啞口無聲。
And when he had spoken such words unto me, I set my face toward the ground, and I became dumb.

10:16    不料，有一位像人的，摸我的嘴脣，我便開口向那站在我面前的說，我主阿，因見這異象，我大大愁苦，毫無氣力。
And, behold, one like the similitude of the sons of men touched my lips: then I opened my mouth, and spake, and said unto him that stood before me, O my lord, by the vision my sorrows are turned upon me, and I have retained no strength.

10:17    我主的僕人怎能與我主說話呢。我一見異象就渾身無力，毫無氣息。
For how can the servant of this my lord talk with this my lord? for as for me, straightway there remained no strength in me, neither is there breath left in me.

10:18    有一位形狀像人的又摸我，使我有力量。
Then there came again and touched me one like the appearance of a man, and he strengthened me,

10:19    他說，大蒙眷愛的人哪，不要懼怕，願你平安。你總要堅強。他一向我說話，我便覺得有力量，說，我主請說，因你使我有力量。
And said, O man greatly beloved, fear not: peace be unto thee, be strong, yea, be strong. And when he had spoken unto me, I was strengthened, and said, Let my lord speak; for thou hast strengthened me.

10:20    他就說，你知道我為何來見你嗎。現在我要回去與波斯的魔君爭戰，我去後，希臘（原文作雅完）的魔君必來。
Then said he, Knowest thou wherefore I come unto thee? and now will I return to fight with the prince of Persia: and when I am gone forth, lo, the prince of Grecia shall come.

10:21    但我要將那錄在真確書上的事告訴你。除了你們的大君米迦勒之外，沒有幫助我抵擋這兩魔君的。
But I will shew thee that which is noted in the scripture of truth: and there is none that holdeth with me in these things, but Michael your prince.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


11:1    又說，當瑪代王大流士元年，我曾起來扶助米迦勒，使他堅強。
Also I in the first year of Darius the Mede, even I, stood to confirm and to strengthen him.

11:2    現在我將真事指示你，波斯還有三王興起，第四王必富足遠勝諸王。他因富足成為強盛，就必激動大眾攻擊希臘國。
And now will I shew thee the truth. Behold, there shall stand up yet three kings in Persia; and the fourth shall be far richer than they all: and by his strength through his riches he shall stir up all against the realm of Grecia.

11:3    必有一個勇敢的王興起，執掌大權，隨意而行。
And a mighty king shall stand up, that shall rule with great dominion, and do according to his will.

11:4    他興起的時候，他的國必破裂，向天的四方（方原文作風）分開，卻不歸他的後裔，治國的權勢也都不及他。因為他的國必被拔出，歸與他後裔之外的人。
And when he shall stand up, his kingdom shall be broken, and shall be divided toward the four winds of heaven; and not to his posterity, nor according to his dominion which he ruled: for his kingdom shall be plucked up, even for others beside those.

11:5    南方的王必強盛，他將帥中必有一個比他更強盛，執掌權柄，他的權柄甚大。
And the king of the south shall be strong, and one of his princes; and he shall be strong above him, and have dominion; his dominion shall be a great dominion.

11:6    過些年後，他們必互相連合，南方王的女兒必就了北方王來立約。但這女子幫助之力存立不住，王和他所倚靠之力也不能存立。這女子和引導她來的，並生她的，以及當時扶助她的，都必交於死地。
And in the end of years they shall join themselves together; for the king's daughter of the south shall come to the king of the north to make an agreement: but she shall not retain the power of the arm; neither shall he stand, nor his arm: but she shall be given up, and they that brought her, and he that begat her, and he that strengthened her in these times.

11:7    但這女子的本家（原文作根）必另生一子（子原文作枝）繼續王位，他必率領軍隊進入北方王的保障，攻擊他們，而且得勝。
But out of a branch of her roots shall one stand up in his estate, which shall come with an army, and shall enter into the fortress of the king of the north, and shall deal against them, and shall prevail:

11:8    並將他們的神像和鑄成的偶像，與金銀的寶器掠到埃及去。數年之內，他不去攻擊北方的王。
And shall also carry captives into Egypt their gods, with their princes, and with their precious vessels of silver and of gold; and he shall continue more years than the king of the north.



11:9    北方的王（原?文作他）必入南方王的國，卻要仍回本地。
So the king of the south shall come into his kingdom, and shall return into his own land.

11:10    北方王（原文作他）的二子必動干戈，招聚許多軍兵。這軍兵前去，如洪水氾濫，又必再去爭戰，直到南方王的保障。
But his sons shall be stirred up, and shall assemble a multitude of great forces: and one shall certainly come, and overflow, and pass through: then shall he return, and be stirred up, even to his fortress.

11:11    南方王必發烈怒，出來與北方王爭戰，擺列大軍。北方王的軍兵必交付他手。
And the king of the south shall be moved with choler, and shall come forth and fight with him, even with the king of the north: and he shall set forth a great multitude; but the multitude shall be given into his hand.

11:12    他的眾軍高傲，他的心也必自高。他雖使數萬人仆倒，卻不得常勝。
And when he hath taken away the multitude, his heart shall be lifted up; and he shall cast down many ten thousands: but he shall not be strengthened by it.

11:13    北方王必回來擺列大軍，比先前的更多。滿了所定的年數，他必率領大軍，帶極多的軍裝來。
For the king of the north shall return, and shall set forth a multitude greater than the former, and shall certainly come after certain years with a great army and with much riches.

11:14    那時，必有許多人起來攻擊南方王，並且你本國的強暴人必興起，要應驗那異象，他們卻要敗亡。
And in those times there shall many stand up against the king of the south: also the robbers of thy people shall exalt themselves to establish the vision; but they shall fall.

11:15    北方王必來築壘攻取堅固城。南方的軍兵必站立不住，就是選擇的精兵（精兵原文作民）也無力站住。
So the king of the north shall come, and cast up a mount, and take the most fenced cities: and the arms of the south shall not withstand, neither his chosen people, neither shall there be any strength to withstand.

11:16    來攻擊他的，必任意而行，無人在北方王（原文作他）面前刪立得住。他必站在那榮美之地，用手施行毀滅。
But he that cometh against him shall do according to his own will, and none shall stand before him: and he shall stand in the glorious land, which by his hand shall be consumed.

11:17    他必定意用全國之力而來，立公正的約，照約而行，將自己的女兒給南方王為妻，想要敗壞他（或作埃及），這計卻不得成就，與自己毫無益處。
He shall also set his face to enter with the strength of his whole kingdom, and upright ones with him; thus shall he do: and he shall give him the daughter of women, corrupting her: but she shall not stand on his side, neither be for him.

11:18    其後他必轉回奪取了許多海島。但有一大帥，除掉他令人受的羞辱，並且使這羞辱歸他本身。
After this shall he turn his face unto the isles, and shall take many: but a prince for his own behalf shall cause the reproach offered by him to cease; without his own reproach he shall cause it to turn upon him.

11:19    他就必轉向本地的保障，卻要絆跌仆倒，歸於無有。
Then he shall turn his face toward the fort of his own land: but he shall stumble and fall, and not be found.

11:20    那時，必有一人興起接續他為王，使橫徵暴斂的人通行國中的榮美地。這王不多日就必滅亡，卻不因忿怒，也不因爭戰。
Then shall stand up in his estate a raiser of taxes in the glory of the kingdom: but within few days he shall be destroyed, neither in anger, nor in battle.

11:21    必有一個卑鄙的人興起接續為王，人未曾將國的尊榮給他，他卻趁人坦然無備的時候，用諂媚的話得國。
And in his estate shall stand up a vile person, to whom they shall not give the honour of the kingdom: but he shall come in peaceably, and obtain the kingdom by flatteries.

11:22    必有無數的軍兵勢如洪水，在他面前衝沒敗壞。同盟的君也必如此。
And with the arms of a flood shall they be overflown from before him, and shall be broken; yea, also the prince of the covenant.

11:23    與那君結盟之後，他必行詭詐，因為他必上來以微小的軍（原文作民）成為強盛。
And after the league made with him he shall work deceitfully: for he shall come up, and shall become strong with a small people.

11:24    趁人坦然無備的時候，他必來到國中極肥美之地，行他列祖和他列祖之祖所未曾行的，將擄物，掠物，和財寶散給眾人，又要設計攻打保障，然而這都是暫時的。
He shall enter peaceably even upon the fattest places of the province; and he shall do that which his fathers have not done, nor his fathers' fathers; he shall scatter among them the prey, and spoil, and riches: yea, and he shall forecast his devices against the strong holds, even for a time.

11:25    他必奮勇向前，率領大軍攻擊南方王。南方王也必以極大極強的軍兵與他爭戰，卻站立不住，因為有人設計謀害南方王。
And he shall stir up his power and his courage against the king of the south with a great army; and the king of the south shall be stirred up to battle with a very great and mighty army; but he shall not stand: for they shall forecast devices against him.

11:26    吃王膳的，必敗壞他。他的軍隊必被衝沒，而且被殺的甚多。
Yea, they that feed of the portion of his meat shall destroy him, and his army shall overflow: and many shall fall down slain.

11:27    至於這二王，他們心懷惡計，同席說謊，計謀卻不成就。因為到了定期，事就了結。
And both these kings' hearts shall be to do mischief, and they shall speak lies at one table; but it shall not prosper: for yet the end shall be at the time appointed.

11:28    北方王（原文作他）必帶許多財寶回往本國，他的心反對聖約，任意而行，回到本地。
Then shall he return into his land with great riches; and his heart shall be against the holy covenant; and he shall do exploits, and return to his own land.

11:29    到了定期，他必返回，來到南方。後一次卻不如前一次，
At the time appointed he shall return, and come toward the south; but it shall not be as the former, or as the latter.

11:30    因為基提戰船必來攻擊他，他就喪膽而回，又要惱恨聖約，任意而行。他必回來聯絡背棄聖約的人。
For the ships of Chittim shall come against him: therefore he shall be grieved, and return, and have indignation against the holy covenant: so shall he do; he shall even return, and have intelligence with them that forsake the holy covenant.

11:31    他必興兵，這兵必褻瀆聖地，就是保障，除掉常獻的燔祭，設立那行毀壞可憎的。
And arms shall stand on his part, and they shall pollute the sanctuary of strength, and shall take away the daily sacrifice, and they shall place the abomination that maketh desolate.

11:32    作惡違背聖約的人，他必用巧言勾引。惟獨認識神的子民必剛強行事。
And such as do wickedly against the covenant shall he corrupt by flatteries: but the people that do know their God shall be strong, and do exploits.

11:33    民間的智慧人必訓誨多人。然而他們多日必倒在刀下，或被火燒，或被擄掠搶奪。
And they that understand among the people shall instruct many: yet they shall fall by the sword, and by flame, by captivity, and by spoil, many days.

11:34    他們仆倒的時候，稍得扶助，卻有許多人用諂媚的話親近他們。
Now when they shall fall, they shall be holpen with a little help: but many shall cleave to them with flatteries.

11:35    智慧人中有些仆倒的，為要熬煉其餘的人，使他們清淨潔白，直到末了。因為到了定期，事就了結。
And some of them of understanding shall fall, to try them, and to purge, and to make them white, even to the time of the end: because it is yet for a time appointed.

11:36    王必任意而行，自高自大，超過所有的神，又用奇異的話攻擊萬神之神。他必行事亨通，直到主的忿怒完畢，因為所定的事必然成就。
And the king shall do according to his will; and he shall exalt himself, and magnify himself above every god, and shall speak marvellous things against the God of gods, and shall prosper till the indignation be accomplished: for that that is determined shall be done.

11:37    他必不顧他列祖的神，也不顧婦女所羨慕的神，無論何神他都不顧。因為他必自大，高過一切。
Neither shall he regard the God of his fathers, nor the desire of women, nor regard any god: for he shall magnify himself above all.

11:38    他倒要敬拜保障的神，用金，銀，寶石和可愛之物敬奉他列祖所不認識的神。
But in his estate shall he honour the God of forces: and a god whom his fathers knew not shall he honour with gold, and silver, and with precious stones, and pleasant things.

11:39    他必靠外邦神的幫助，攻破最堅固的保障。凡承認他的，他必將榮耀加給他們，使他們管轄許多人，又為賄賂分地與他們。
Thus shall he do in the most strong holds with a strange god, whom he shall acknowledge and increase with glory: and he shall cause them to rule over many, and shall divide the land for gain.

11:40    到末了，南方王要與他交戰。北方王必用戰車，馬兵，和許多戰船，勢如暴風來攻擊他，也必進入列國，如洪水氾濫。
And at the time of the end shall the king of the south push at him: and the king of the north shall come against him like a whirlwind, with chariots, and with horsemen, and with many ships; and he shall enter into the countries, and shall overflow and pass over.

11:41    又必進入那榮美之地，有許多國就被傾覆，但以東人，摩押人，和一大半亞捫人必脫離他的手。
He shall enter also into the glorious land, and many countries shall be overthrown: but these shall escape out of his hand, even Edom, and Moab, and the chief of the children of Ammon.

11:42    他必伸手攻擊列國。埃及地也不得脫離。
He shall stretch forth his hand also upon the countries: and the land of Egypt shall not escape.

11:43    他必把持埃及的金銀財寶和各樣的寶物。利比亞人和古實人都必跟從他。
But he shall have power over the treasures of gold and of silver, and over all the precious things of Egypt: and the Libyans and the Ethiopians shall be at his steps.

11:44    但從東方和北方必有訊息擾亂他，他就大發烈怒出去，要將多人殺滅淨盡。
But tidings out of the east and out of the north shall trouble him: therefore he shall go forth with great fury to destroy, and utterly to make away many.

11:45    他必在海和榮美的聖山中間設立他如宮殿的帳幕。然而到了他的結局，必無人能幫助他。
And he shall plant the tabernacles of his palace between the seas in the glorious holy mountain; yet he shall come to his end, and none shall help him.




舊約 -- 但以理書(Daniel) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 12 章 )    　


12:1    那時，保佑你本國之民的天使長（原文作大君）米迦勒必站起來，並且有大艱難，從有國以來直到此時，沒有這樣的。你本國的民中，凡名錄在冊上的，必得拯救。
And at that time shall Michael stand up, the great prince which standeth for the children of thy people: and there shall be a time of trouble, such as never was since there was a nation even to that same time: and at that time thy people shall be delivered, every one that shall be found written in the book.

12:2    睡在塵埃中的，必有多人復醒。其中有得永生的，有受羞辱永遠被憎惡的。
And many of them that sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake, some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt.

12:3    智慧人必發光如同天上的光。那使多人歸義的，必發光如星，直到永永遠遠。
And they that be wise shall shine as the brightness of the firmament; and they that turn many to righteousness as the stars for ever and ever.

12:4    但以理阿，你要隱藏這話，封閉這書，直到末時。必有多人來往奔跑（或作切心研究），知識就必增長。
But thou, O Daniel, shut up the words, and seal the book, even to the time of the end: many shall run to and fro, and knowledge shall be increased.

12:5    我但以理觀看，見另有兩個人站立，一個在河這邊，一個在河那邊。
Then I Daniel looked, and, behold, there stood other two, the one on this side of the bank of the river, and the other on that side of the bank of the river.

12:6    有一個問那站在河水以上，穿細麻衣的說，這奇異的事到幾時才應驗呢。
And one said to the man clothed in linen, which was upon the waters of the river, How long shall it be to the end of these wonders?

12:7    我聽見那站在河水以上，穿細麻衣的，向天舉起左右手，指著活到永遠的主起誓說，要到一載，二載，半載，打破聖民權力的時候，這一切事就都應驗了。
And I heard the man clothed in linen, which was upon the waters of the river, when he held up his right hand and his left hand unto heaven, and sware by him that liveth for ever that it shall be for a time, times, and an half; and when he shall have accomplished to scatter the power of the holy people, all these things shall be finished.

12:8    我聽見這話，卻不明白，就說，我主阿，這些事的結局是怎樣呢。
And I heard, but I understood not: then said I, O my Lord, what shall be the end of these things?

12:9    他說，但以理阿，你只管去。因為這話已經隱藏封閉，直到末時。
And he said, Go thy way, Daniel: for the words are closed up and sealed till the time of the end.

12:10    必有許多人使自己清淨潔白，且被熬煉。但惡人仍必行惡，一切惡人都不明白，惟獨智慧人能明白。
Many shall be purified, and made white, and tried; but the wicked shall do wickedly: and none of the wicked shall understand; but the wise shall understand.

12:11    從除掉常獻的燔祭，並設立那行毀壞可憎之物的時候，必有一千二百九十日。
And from the time that the daily sacrifice shall be taken away, and the abomination that maketh desolate set up, there shall be a thousand two hundred and ninety days.

12:12    等到一千三百三十五日的，那人便為有福。
Blessed is he that waiteth, and cometh to the thousand three hundred and five and thirty days.

12:13    你且去等候結局，因為你必安歇。到了末期，你必起來，享受你的福分。
But go thou thy way till the end be: for thou shalt rest, and stand in thy lot at the end of the days.





