



舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


1:1    當烏西雅，約坦，亞哈斯，希西家作猶大王，約阿施的兒子耶羅波安，作以色列王的時候，耶和華的話臨到備利的兒子何西阿。
The word of the LORD that came unto Hosea, the son of Beeri, in the days of Uzziah, Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash, king of Israel.

1:2    耶和華初次與何西阿說話，對他說，你去娶淫婦為妻，也收那從淫亂所生的兒女，因為這地大行淫亂，離棄耶和華。
The beginning of the word of the LORD by Hosea. And the LORD said to Hosea, Go, take unto thee a wife of whoredoms and children of whoredoms: for the land hath committed great whoredom, departing from the LORD.

1:3    於是，何西阿去娶了滴拉音的女兒歌篾。這婦人懷孕，給他生了一個兒子。
So he went and took Gomer the daughter of Diblaim; which conceived, and bare him a son.

1:4    耶和華對何西阿說，給他起名叫耶斯列，因為再過片時，我必討耶戶家在耶斯列殺人流血的罪，也必使以色列家的國滅絕。
And the LORD said unto him, Call his name Jezreel; for yet a little while, and I will avenge the blood of Jezreel upon the house of Jehu, and will cause to cease the kingdom of the house of Israel.

1:5    到那日，我必在耶斯列平原折斷以色列的弓。
And it shall come to pass at that day, that I will break the bow of Israel in the valley of Jezreel.

1:6    歌篾又懷孕生了一個女兒，耶和華對何西阿說，給她起名叫羅路哈瑪（就是不蒙憐憫的意思），因為我必不再憐憫以色列家，決不赦免他們。
And she conceived again, and bare a daughter. And God said unto him, Call her name Loruhamah: for I will no more have mercy upon the house of Israel; but I will utterly take them away.

1:7    我卻要憐憫猶大家，使他們靠耶和華他們的神得救，不使他們靠弓，刀，爭戰，馬匹，與馬兵得救。
But I will have mercy upon the house of Judah, and will save them by the LORD their God, and will not save them by bow, nor by sword, nor by battle, by horses, nor by horsemen.

1:8    歌篾給羅路哈瑪斷奶以後，又懷孕生了一個兒子。
Now when she had weaned Loruhamah, she conceived, and bare a son.

1:9    耶和華說，給他起名叫羅阿米（就是非我民的意思），因為你們不作我的子民，我也不作你們的神。
Then said God, Call his name Loammi: for ye are not my people, and I will not be your God.

1:10    然而，以色列的人數必如海沙，不可量，不可數。從前在什麼地方對他們說，你們不是我的子民，將來在那裡必對他們說，你們是永生神的兒子。
Yet the number of the children of Israel shall be as the sand of the sea, which cannot be measured nor numbered; and it shall come to pass, that in the place where it was said unto them, Ye are not my people, there it shall be said unto them, Ye are the sons of the living God.

1:11    猶大人和以色列人，必一同聚集，為自己立一個首領，從這地上去（或作從被擄之地上來），因為耶斯列的日子必為大日。
Then shall the children of Judah and the children of Israel be gathered together, and appoint themselves one head, and they shall come up out of the land: for great shall be the day of Jezreel.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


2:1    你們要稱你們的弟兄為阿米（就是我民的意思），稱你們的姊妹為路哈瑪（就是蒙憐憫的意思）。
Say ye unto your brethren, Ammi; and to your sisters, Ruhamah.

2:2    你們要與你們的母親大大爭辯，因為她不是我的妻子，我也不是她的丈夫。叫她除掉臉上的淫像，和胸間的淫態。
Plead with your mother, plead: for she is not my wife, neither am I her husband: let her therefore put away her whoredoms out of her sight, and her adulteries from between her breasts;

2:3    免得我剝她的衣服，使她赤體，與才生的時候一樣，使她如曠野，如乾旱之地，因渴而死。
Lest I strip her naked, and set her as in the day that she was born, and make her as a wilderness, and set her like a dry land, and slay her with thirst.

2:4    我必不憐憫她的兒女，因為他們是從淫亂而生的。
And I will not have mercy upon her children; for they be the children of whoredoms.

2:5    他們的母親行了淫亂，懷他們的母做了可羞恥的事，因為她說，我要隨從所愛的，我的餅，水，羊毛，麻，油，酒都是他們給的。
For their mother hath played the harlot: she that conceived them hath done shamefully: for she said, I will go after my lovers, that give me my bread and my water, my wool and my flax, mine oil and my drink.

2:6    因此，我必用荊棘堵塞她的道，築牆擋住她，使她找不著路。
Therefore, behold, I will hedge up thy way with thorns, and make a wall, that she shall not find her paths.

2:7    她必追隨所愛的，卻追不上，她必尋梢他們，卻尋不見，便說，我要歸回前夫，因我那時的光景比如今還好。
And she shall follow after her lovers, but she shall not overtake them; and she shall seek them, but shall not find them: then shall she say, I will go and return to my first husband; for then was it better with me than now.

2:8    她不知道是我給她五穀，新酒，和油，又加增她的金銀。她卻以此供奉（或作製造）巴力。
For she did not know that I gave her corn, and wine, and oil, and multiplied her silver and gold, which they prepared for Baal.

2:9    因此，到了收割的日子，出酒的時候，我必將我的五穀新酒收回，也必將她應當遮體的羊毛和麻，奪回來。
Therefore will I return, and take away my corn in the time thereof, and my wine in the season thereof, and will recover my wool and my flax given to cover her nakedness.

2:10    如今我必在她所愛的眼前，顯露她的醜態，必無人能救她脫離我的手。
And now will I discover her lewdness in the sight of her lovers, and none shall deliver her out of mine hand.

2:11    我也必使她的宴樂，節期，月朔，安息日，並她的一切大會，都止息了。
I will also cause all her mirth to cease, her feast days, her new moons, and her sabbaths, and all her solemn feasts.

2:12    我也必毀壞她的葡萄樹，和無花果樹，就是她說，這是我所愛的給我為賞賜的，我必使這些樹變為荒林，為田野的走獸所吃。
And I will destroy her vines and her fig trees, whereof she hath said, These are my rewards that my lovers have given me: and I will make them a forest, and the beasts of the field shall eat them.

2:13    我必追討她素日給諸巴力燒香的罪，那時她佩帶耳環，和別樣妝飾，隨從她所愛的，卻忘記我。這是耶和華說的。
And I will visit upon her the days of Baalim, wherein she burned incense to them, and she decked herself with her earrings and her jewels, and she went after her lovers, and forgat me, saith the LORD.

2:14    後來我必勸導她，領她到曠野，對她說安慰的話。
Therefore, behold, I will allure her, and bring her into the wilderness, and speak comfortably unto her.

2:15    她從那裡出來。我必賜她葡萄園，又賜她亞割谷作為指望的門，她必在那裡應聲（或作歌唱），與幼年的日子一樣，與從埃及地上來的時候相同。
And I will give her her vineyards from thence, and the valley of Achor for a door of hope: and she shall sing there, as in the days of her youth, and as in the day when she came up out of the land of Egypt.

2:16    耶和華說，那日你必稱呼我伊施（就是我夫的意思），不再稱呼我巴力（就是我主的意思）。
And it shall be at that day, saith the LORD, that thou shalt call me Ishi; and shalt call me no more Baali.

2:17    因為我必從我民的口中除掉諸巴力的名號，這名號不再提起。
For I will take away the names of Baalim out of her mouth, and they shall no more be remembered by their name.

2:18    當那日，我必為我的民，與田野的走獸，和空中的飛鳥，並地上的昆蟲立約。又必在國中折斷弓刀，止息爭戰，使他們安然躺臥。
And in that day will I make a covenant for them with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of heaven, and with the creeping things of the ground: and I will break the bow and the sword and the battle out of the earth, and will make them to lie down safely.

2:19    我必聘你永遠歸我為妻，以仁義，公平，慈愛，憐憫聘你歸我。
And I will betroth thee unto me for ever; yea, I will betroth thee unto me in righteousness, and in judgment, and in lovingkindness, and in mercies.

2:20    也以誠實聘你歸我，你就必認識我耶和華。
I will even betroth thee unto me in faithfulness: and thou shalt know the LORD.

2:21    耶和華說，那日我必應允，我必應允天，天必應允地。
And it shall come to pass in that day, I will hear, saith the LORD, I will hear the heavens, and they shall hear the earth;

2:22    地必應允五穀，新酒，和油，這些必應允耶斯列民（耶斯列就是神栽種的意思）。
And the earth shall hear the corn, and the wine, and the oil; and they shall hear Jezreel.

2:23    我必將她種在這地，素不蒙憐憫的，我必憐憫，本非我民的，我必對他說，你是我的民，他必說，你是我的神。
And I will sow her unto me in the earth; and I will have mercy upon her that had not obtained mercy; and I will say to them which were not my people, Thou art my people; and they shall say, Thou art my God.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


3:1    耶和華對我說，你再去愛一個淫婦，就是她情人所愛的，好像以色列人。雖然偏向別神，喜愛葡萄餅，耶和華還是愛他們。
Then said the LORD unto me, Go yet, love a woman beloved of her friend, yet an adulteress, according to the love of the LORD toward the children of Israel, who look to other gods, and love flagons of wine.

3:2    我便用銀子十五舍客勒，大麥一賀梅珥半，買她歸我。
So I bought her to me for fifteen pieces of silver, and for an homer of barley, and an half homer of barley:

3:3    我對她說，你當多日為我獨居，不可行淫，不可歸別人為妻，我向你也必這樣。
And I said unto her, Thou shalt abide for me many days; thou shalt not play the harlot, and thou shalt not be for another man: so will I also be for thee.

3:4    以色列人也必多日獨居，無君王，無首領，無祭祀，無柱像，無以弗得，無家中的神像。
For the children of Israel shall abide many days without a king, and without a prince, and without a sacrifice, and without an image, and without an ephod, and without teraphim:

3:5    後來以色列人必歸回（或作回心轉意），尋求他們的神耶和華，和他們的王大衛。在末後的日子，必以敬畏的心歸向耶和華，領受他的恩惠。
Afterward shall the children of Israel return, and seek the LORD their God, and David their king; and shall fear the LORD and his goodness in the latter days.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


4:1    以色列人哪，你們當聽耶和華的話。耶和華與這地的居民爭辯，因這地上無誠實，無良善，無人認識神。
Hear the word of the LORD, ye children of Israel: for the LORD hath a controversy with the inhabitants of the land, because there is no truth, nor mercy, nor knowledge of God in the land.

4:2    但起假誓，不踐前言，殺害，偷盜，姦淫，行強暴，殺人流血，接連不斷。
By swearing, and lying, and killing, and stealing, and committing adultery, they break out, and blood toucheth blood.

4:3    因此，這地悲哀，其上的民，田野的獸，空中的鳥，必都衰微，海中的魚也必消滅。
Therefore shall the land mourn, and every one that dwelleth therein shall languish, with the beasts of the field, and with the fowls of heaven; yea, the fishes of the sea also shall be taken away.

4:4    然而，人都不必爭辯，也不必指責，因為這民與抗拒祭司的人一樣。
Yet let no man strive, nor reprove another: for thy people are as they that strive with the priest.

4:5    你這祭司必日間跌倒，先知也必夜間與你一同跌倒。我必滅絕你的母親。
Therefore shalt thou fall in the day, and the prophet also shall fall with thee in the night, and I will destroy thy mother.

4:6    我的民因無知識而滅亡。你棄掉知識，我也必棄掉你，使你不再給我作祭司。你既忘了你神的律法，我也必忘記你的兒女。
My people are destroyed for lack of knowledge: because thou hast rejected knowledge, I will also reject thee, that thou shalt be no priest to me: seeing thou hast forgotten the law of thy God, I will also forget thy children.

4:7    祭司越發增多，就越發得罪我。我必使他們的榮耀變為羞辱。
As they were increased, so they sinned against me: therefore will I change their glory into shame.

4:8    他們吃我民的贖罪祭，滿心願意我民犯罪。
They eat up the sin of my people, and they set their heart on their iniquity.

4:9    將來民如何，祭司也必如何，我必因他們所行的懲罰他們，照他們所做的報應他們。
And there shall be, like people, like priest: and I will punish them for their ways, and reward them their doings.

4:10    他們吃，卻不得飽。行淫，而不得立後。因為他們離棄耶和華，不遵他的命。
For they shall eat, and not have enough: they shall commit whoredom, and shall not increase: because they have left off to take heed to the LORD.

4:11    姦淫和酒，並新酒，奪去人的心。
Whoredom and wine and new wine take away the heart.

4:12    我的民求問木偶，以為木杖能指示他們，因為他們的淫心使他們失迷，他們就行淫離棄神，不守約束。
My people ask counsel at their stocks, and their staff declareth unto them: for the spirit of whoredoms hath caused them to err, and they have gone a whoring from under their God.

4:13    在各山頂，各高岡的橡樹，楊樹，慄樹之下，獻祭燒香，因為樹影美好。所以，你們的女兒淫亂，你們的新婦（或作兒婦下同）行淫。
They sacrifice upon the tops of the mountains, and burn incense upon the hills, under oaks and poplars and elms, because the shadow thereof is good: therefore your daughters shall commit whoredom, and your spouses shall commit adultery.

4:14    你們的女兒淫亂，你們的新婦行淫，我卻不懲罰她們，因為你們自己離群與娼妓同居，與妓女一同獻祭。這無知的民必致傾倒。
I will not punish your daughters when they commit whoredom, nor your spouses when they commit adultery: for themselves are separated with whores, and they sacrifice with harlots: therefore the people that doth not understand shall fall.

4:15    以色列阿，你雖然行淫，猶大卻不可犯罪。不要往吉甲去，不要上到伯亞文，也不要指著永生的耶和華起誓。
Though thou, Israel, play the harlot, yet let not Judah offend; and come not ye unto Gilgal, neither go ye up to Bethaven, nor swear, The LORD liveth.

4:16    以色列倔強，猶如倔強的母牛。現在耶和華要放他們，如同放羊羔在寬闊之地。
For Israel slideth back as a backsliding heifer: now the LORD will feed them as a lamb in a large place.

4:17    以法蓮親近偶像，任憑他吧。
Ephraim is joined to idols: let him alone.

4:18    他們所喝的已經發酸。他們時常行淫，他們的官長最愛羞恥的事。
Their drink is sour: they have committed whoredom continually: her rulers with shame do love, Give ye.

4:19    風把他們裹在翅膀裡。他們因所獻的祭必致蒙羞。
The wind hath bound her up in her wings, and they shall be ashamed because of their sacrifices.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


5:1    眾祭司阿，要聽我的話，以色列家阿，要留心聽。王家阿，要側耳而聽。審判要臨到你們，因你們在米斯巴如網羅，在他泊山如鋪張的網。
Hear ye this, O priests; and hearken, ye house of Israel; and give ye ear, O house of the king; for judgment is toward you, because ye have been a snare on Mizpah, and a net spread upon Tabor.

5:2    這些悖逆的人，肆行殺戮，罪孽極深。我卻斥責他們眾人。
And the revolters are profound to make slaughter, though I have been a rebuker of them all.

5:3    以法蓮為我所知，以色列不能向我隱藏。以法蓮哪，現在你行淫了，以色列被玷汙了。
I know Ephraim, and Israel is not hid from me: for now, O Ephraim, thou committest whoredom, and Israel is defiled.

5:4    他們所行的使他們不能歸向神，因有淫心在他們裡面，他們也不認識耶和華。
They will not frame their doings to turn unto their God: for the spirit of whoredoms is in the midst of them, and they have not known the LORD.

5:5    以色列的驕傲當面見證自己。故此，以色列和以法蓮必因自己的罪孽跌倒，猶大也必與他們一同跌倒。
And the pride of Israel doth testify to his face: therefore shall Israel and Ephraim fall in their iniquity; Judah also shall fall with them.

5:6    他們必牽著牛羊去尋求耶和華，卻尋不見，他已經轉去離開他們。
They shall go with their flocks and with their herds to seek the LORD; but they shall not find him; he hath withdrawn himself from them.

5:7    他們向耶和華行事詭詐，生了私子。到了月朔，他們與他們的地業必被吞滅。
They have dealt treacherously against the LORD: for they have begotten strange children: now shall a month devour them with their portions.

5:8    你們當在基比亞吹角，在拉瑪吹號，在伯亞文吹出大聲，說，便雅憫哪，有仇敵在你後頭。
Blow ye the cornet in Gibeah, and the trumpet in Ramah: cry aloud at Bethaven, after thee, O Benjamin.

5:9    在責罰的日子，以法蓮必變為荒場。我在以色列支派中。指示將來必成的事。
Ephraim shall be desolate in the day of rebuke: among the tribes of Israel have I made known that which shall surely be.

5:10    猶大的首領如同挪移地界的人，我必將忿怒倒在他們身上，如水一般。
The princes of Judah were like them that remove the bound: therefore I will pour out my wrath upon them like water.

5:11    以法蓮因樂從人的命令，就受欺壓，被審判壓碎。
Ephraim is oppressed and broken in judgment, because he willingly walked after the commandment.

5:12    我使以法蓮如蟲蛀之物，使猶大家如朽爛之木。
Therefore will I be unto Ephraim as a moth, and to the house of Judah as rottenness.

5:13    以法蓮見自己有病，猶大見自己有傷，他們就打發人往亞述去見耶雷布王，他卻不能醫治你們，不能治好你們的傷。
When Ephraim saw his sickness, and Judah saw his wound, then went Ephraim to the Assyrian, and sent to king Jareb: yet could he not heal you, nor cure you of your wound.

5:14    我必向以法蓮如獅子，向猶大家如少壯獅子。我必撕裂而去，我要奪去，無人搭救。
For I will be unto Ephraim as a lion, and as a young lion to the house of Judah: I, even I, will tear and go away; I will take away, and none shall rescue him.

5:15    我要回到原處，等他們自覺有罪（或作承認己罪），尋求我面，他們在急難的時候，必切切尋求我。
I will go and return to my place, till they acknowledge their offence, and seek my face: in their affliction they will seek me early.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


6:1    來吧，我們歸向耶和華。他撕裂我們，也必醫治。他打傷我們，也必纏裹。
Come, and let us return unto the LORD: for he hath torn, and he will heal us; he hath smitten, and he will bind us up.

6:2    過兩天他必使我們甦醒，第三天他必使我們興起，我們就在他面前得以存活。
After two days will he revive us: in the third day he will raise us up, and we shall live in his sight.

6:3    我們務要認識耶和華，竭力追求認識他。他出現確如晨光，他必臨到我們像甘雨，像滋潤田地的春雨。
Then shall we know, if we follow on to know the LORD: his going forth is prepared as the morning; and he shall come unto us as the rain, as the latter and former rain unto the earth.

6:4    主說，以法蓮哪，我可向你怎樣行呢。猶大阿，我可向你怎樣做呢。因為你們的良善，如同早晨的雲霧，又如速散的甘露。
O Ephraim, what shall I do unto thee? O Judah, what shall I do unto thee? for your goodness is as a morning cloud, and as the early dew it goeth away.

6:5    因此，我藉先知砍伐他們，以我口中的話殺戮他們，我施行的審判如光發出。
Therefore have I hewed them by the prophets; I have slain them by the words of my mouth: and thy judgments are as the light that goeth forth.

6:6    我喜愛良善（或作憐恤），不喜愛祭祀，喜愛認識神，勝於燔祭。
For I desired mercy, and not sacrifice; and the knowledge of God more than burnt offerings.

6:7    他們卻如亞當背約，在境內向我行事詭詐。
But they like men have transgressed the covenant: there have they dealt treacherously against me.

6:8    基列是作孽之人的城。被血沾染。
Gilead is a city of them that work iniquity, and is polluted with blood.

6:9    強盜成群，怎樣埋伏殺人。祭司結黨，也照樣在示劍的路上殺戮，行了邪惡。
And as troops of robbers wait for a man, so the company of priests murder in the way by consent: for they commit lewdness.

6:10    在以色列家，我見了可憎的事。在以法蓮那裡有淫行，以色列被玷汙。
I have seen an horrible thing in the house of Israel: there is the whoredom of Ephraim, Israel is defiled.

6:11    猶大阿，我使被擄之民歸回的時候，必有為你所命定的收場。
Also, O Judah, he hath set an harvest for thee, when I returned the captivity of my people.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


7:1    我想醫治以色列的時候，以法蓮的罪孽，和撒瑪利亞的罪惡，就顯露出來。他們行事虛謊，內有賊人入室偷竊，外有強盜成群騷擾。
When I would have healed Israel, then the iniquity of Ephraim was discovered, and the wickedness of Samaria: for they commit falsehood; and the thief cometh in, and the troop of robbers spoileth without.

7:2    他們心裡並不思想我記念他們的一切惡，他們所行的現在纏繞他們，都在我面前。
And they consider not in their hearts that I remember all their wickedness: now their own doings have beset them about; they are before my face.

7:3    他們行惡使君王歡喜，說謊使首領喜樂。
They make the king glad with their wickedness, and the princes with their lies.

7:4    他們都是行淫的，像火爐被烤餅的燒熱，從摶面到發麵的時候，暫不使火著旺。
They are all adulterers, as an oven heated by the baker, who ceaseth from raising after he hath kneaded the dough, until it be leavened.

7:5    在我們王宴樂的日子，首領因酒的烈性成病。王與褻慢人拉手。
In the day of our king the princes have made him sick with bottles of wine; he stretched out his hand with scorners.

7:6    首領埋伏的時候，心中熱如火爐，就如烤餅的整夜睡臥，到了早晨火氣炎炎。
For they have made ready their heart like an oven, whiles they lie in wait: their baker sleepeth all the night; in the morning it burneth as a flaming fire.

7:7    眾民也熱如火爐，燒滅他們的官長。他們的君王都仆倒而死。他們中間無一人求告我。
They are all hot as an oven, and have devoured their judges; all their kings are fallen: there is none among them that calleth unto me.

7:8    以法蓮與列邦人攙雜。以法蓮是沒有翻過的餅。
Ephraim, he hath mixed himself among the people; Ephraim is a cake not turned.

7:9    外邦人吞吃他勞力得來的，他卻不知道，頭髮斑白，他也不覺得。
Strangers have devoured his strength, and he knoweth it not: yea, gray hairs are here and there upon him, yet he knoweth not.

7:10    以色列的驕傲當面見證自己，雖遭遇這一切，他們仍不歸向耶和華他們的神，也不尋求他。
And the pride of Israel testifieth to his face: and they do not return to the LORD their God, nor seek him for all this.

7:11    以法蓮好像鴿子愚蠢無知。他們求告埃及，投奔亞述。
Ephraim also is like a silly dove without heart: they call to Egypt, they go to Assyria.

7:12    他們去的時候，我必將我的網撒在他們身上，我要打下他們，如同空中的鳥。我必按他們會眾所聽見的懲罰他們。
When they shall go, I will spread my net upon them; I will bring them down as the fowls of the heaven; I will chastise them, as their congregation hath heard.

7:13    他們因離棄我，必定有禍，因違揹我，必被毀滅。我雖要救贖他們，他們卻向我說謊。
Woe unto them! for they have fled from me: destruction unto them! because they have transgressed against me: though I have redeemed them, yet they have spoken lies against me.

7:14    他們並不誠心哀求我，乃在床上呼號。他們為求五穀新酒聚集，仍然悖逆我。
And they have not cried unto me with their heart, when they howled upon their beds: they assemble themselves for corn and wine, and they rebel against me.

7:15    我雖教導他們，堅固他們的膀臂，他們竟圖謀抗拒我。
Though I have bound and strengthened their arms, yet do they imagine mischief against me.

7:16    他們歸向，卻不歸向至上者。他們如同翻背的弓。他們的首領必因舌頭的狂傲倒在刀下，這在埃及地必作人的譏笑。
They return, but not to the most High: they are like a deceitful bow: their princes shall fall by the sword for the rage of their tongue: this shall be their derision in the land of Egypt.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


8:1    你用口吹角吧。敵人如鷹來攻打耶和華的家，因為這民違揹我的約，干犯我的律法。
Set the trumpet to thy mouth. He shall come as an eagle against the house of the LORD, because they have transgressed my covenant, and trespassed against my law.

8:2    他們必呼叫我說，我的神阿，我們以色列認識你了。
Israel shall cry unto me, My God, we know thee.

8:3    以色列丟棄良善（或作福分），仇敵必追逼他。
Israel hath cast off the thing that is good: the enemy shall pursue him.

8:4    他們立君王，卻不由我，他們立首領，我卻不認。他們用金銀為自己製造偶像，以致被剪除。
They have set up kings, but not by me: they have made princes, and I knew it not: of their silver and their gold have they made them idols, that they may be cut off.

8:5    撒瑪利亞阿，耶和華已經丟棄你的牛犢。我的怒氣向拜牛犢的人發作。他們到幾時方能無罪呢。
Thy calf, O Samaria, hath cast thee off; mine anger is kindled against them: how long will it be ere they attain to innocency?

8:6    這牛犢出於以色列，是匠人所造的，並不是神。撒瑪利亞的牛犢必被打碎。
For from Israel was it also: the workman made it; therefore it is not God: but the calf of Samaria shall be broken in pieces.

8:7    他們所種的是風，所收的是暴風，所種的不成禾稼，就是發苗也不結實。即便結實，外邦人必吞吃。
For they have sown the wind, and they shall reap the whirlwind: it hath no stalk: the bud shall yield no meal: if so be it yield, the strangers shall swallow it up.

8:8    以色列被吞吃，現今在列國中，好像人不喜悅的器皿。
Israel is swallowed up: now shall they be among the Gentiles as a vessel wherein is no pleasure.

8:9    他們投奔亞述，如同獨行的野驢。以法蓮賄買朋黨。
For they are gone up to Assyria, a wild ass alone by himself: Ephraim hath hired lovers.

8:10    他們雖在列邦中賄買人，現在我卻要聚集懲罰他們。他們因君王和首領所加的重擔，日漸衰微。
Yea, though they have hired among the nations, now will I gather them, and they shall sorrow a little for the burden of the king of princes.

8:11    以法蓮增添祭壇取罪，因此，祭壇使他犯罪。
Because Ephraim hath made many altars to sin, altars shall be unto him to sin.

8:12    我為他寫了律法萬條，他卻以為與他毫無關涉。
I have written to him the great things of my law, but they were counted as a strange thing.

8:13    至於獻給我的祭物，他們自食其肉，耶和華卻不悅納他們。現在必記念他們的罪孽，追討他們的罪惡，他們必歸回埃及。
They sacrifice flesh for the sacrifices of mine offerings, and eat it; but the LORD accepteth them not; now will he remember their iniquity, and visit their sins: they shall return to Egypt.

8:14    以色列忘記造他的主，建造宮殿。猶大多造堅固城，我卻要降火焚燒他的城邑，燒滅其中的宮殿。
For Israel hath forgotten his Maker, and buildeth temples; and Judah hath multiplied fenced cities: but I will send a fire upon his cities, and it shall devour the palaces thereof.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


9:1    以色列阿，不要像外邦人歡喜快樂，因為你行邪淫離棄你的神，在各穀場上如妓女喜愛賞賜。
Rejoice not, O Israel, for joy, as other people: for thou hast gone a whoring from thy God, thou hast loved a reward upon every cornfloor.

9:2    穀場和酒榨，都不夠以色列人使用，新酒也必缺乏。
The floor and the winepress shall not feed them, and the new wine shall fail in her.

9:3    他們必不得住耶和華的地，以法蓮卻要歸回埃及，必在亞述吃不潔淨的食物。
They shall not dwell in the LORD's land; but Ephraim shall return to Egypt, and they shall eat unclean things in Assyria.

9:4    他們必不得向耶和華奠酒，即便奠酒也不蒙悅納。他們的祭物，必如居喪者的食物，凡吃的必被玷汙，因他們的食物，只為自己的口腹，必不奉入耶和華的殿。
They shall not offer wine offerings to the LORD, neither shall they be pleasing unto him: their sacrifices shall be unto them as the bread of mourners; all that eat thereof shall be polluted: for their bread for their soul shall not come into the house of the LORD.

9:5    在大會的日子，到耶和華的節期，你們怎樣行呢。
What will ye do in the solemn day, and in the day of the feast of the LORD?

9:6    看哪，他們逃避災難，埃及人必收殮他們的屍首，摩弗人必葬埋他們的骸骨。他們用銀子做的美物上必長蒺藜，他們的帳棚中必生荊棘。
For, lo, they are gone because of destruction: Egypt shall gather them up, Memphis shall bury them: the pleasant places for their silver, nettles shall possess them: thorns shall be in their tabernacles.

9:7    以色列人必知道降罰的日子臨近，報應的時候來到。（民說，作先知的是愚昧，受靈感的是狂妄皆因他們多多作孽，大懷怨恨。
The days of visitation are come, the days of recompence are come; Israel shall know it: the prophet is a fool, the spiritual man is mad, for the multitude of thine iniquity, and the great hatred.

9:8    以法蓮曾作我神守望的，至於先知，在他一切的道上作為捕鳥人的網羅，在他神的家中懷怨恨。
The watchman of Ephraim was with my God: but the prophet is a snare of a fowler in all his ways, and hatred in the house of his God.

9:9    以法蓮深深地敗壞，如在基比亞的日子一樣，耶和華必記念他們的罪孽，追討他們的罪惡。
They have deeply corrupted themselves, as in the days of Gibeah: therefore he will remember their iniquity, he will visit their sins.

9:10    主說，我遇見以色列如葡萄在曠野，我看見你們的列祖如無花果樹上春季初熟的果子。他們卻來到巴力毗珥專拜那可羞恥的，就成為可憎惡的，與他們所愛的一樣。
I found Israel like grapes in the wilderness; I saw your fathers as the firstripe in the fig tree at her first time: but they went to Baalpeor, and separated themselves unto that shame; and their abominations were according as they loved.

9:11    至於以法蓮人，他們的榮耀必如鳥飛去，必不生產，不懷胎，不成孕。
As for Ephraim, their glory shall fly away like a bird, from the birth, and from the womb, and from the conception.



9:12    縱然養大兒女，我卻必使他們喪子，甚至不留一個。我離棄他們，他們就有禍了。
Though they bring up their children, yet will I bereave them, that there shall not be a man left: yea, woe also to them when I depart from them!

9:13    我看以法蓮如推羅栽於美地。以法蓮卻要將自己的兒女帶出來，交與行殺戮的人。
Ephraim, as I saw Tyrus, is planted in a pleasant place: but Ephraim shall bring forth his children to the murderer.

9:14    耶和華阿，求你加給他們加什麼呢，要使他們胎墜乳乾。
Give them, O LORD: what wilt thou give? give them a miscarrying womb and dry breasts.

9:15    耶和華說，他們一切的惡事都在吉甲，我在那裡憎惡他們，因他們所行的惡，我必從我地上趕出他們去，不再憐愛他們，他們的首領都是悖逆的。
All their wickedness is in Gilgal: for there I hated them: for the wickedness of their doings I will drive them out of mine house, I will love them no more: all their princes are revolters.

9:16    以法蓮受責罰，根本枯乾，必不能結果，即或生產，我必殺他們所生的愛子。
Ephraim is smitten, their root is dried up, they shall bear no fruit: yea, though they bring forth, yet will I slay even the beloved fruit of their womb.

9:17    我的神必棄絕他們，因為他們不聽從他，他們也必飄流在列國中。
My God will cast them away, because they did not hearken unto him: and they shall be wanderers among the nations.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


10:1    以色列是茂盛的葡萄樹，結果繁多，果子越多，就越增添祭壇。地土越肥美，就越造美麗的柱像。
Israel is an empty vine, he bringeth forth fruit unto himself: according to the multitude of his fruit he hath increased the altars; according to the goodness of his land they have made goodly images.

10:2    他們心懷二意，現今要定為有罪。耶和華必拆毀他們的祭壇，毀壞他們的柱像。
Their heart is divided; now shall they be found faulty: he shall break down their altars, he shall spoil their images.

10:3    他們必說，我們沒有王，因為我們不敬畏耶和華。王能為我們做什麼呢。
For now they shall say, We have no king, because we feared not the LORD; what then should a king do to us?

10:4    他們為立約說謊言，起假誓，因此，災罰如苦菜滋生在田間的犁溝中。
They have spoken words, swearing falsely in making a covenant: thus judgment springeth up as hemlock in the furrows of the field.

10:5    撒瑪利亞的居民，因伯亞文的牛犢驚恐，崇拜牛犢的民，和喜愛牛犢的祭司，都必因榮耀離開他，為他悲哀。
The inhabitants of Samaria shall fear because of the calves of Bethaven: for the people thereof shall mourn over it, and the priests thereof that rejoiced on it, for the glory thereof, because it is departed from it.

10:6    牛犢帶到亞述當作禮物，獻給耶雷布王。以法蓮必蒙羞，以色列必因自己的計謀慚愧。
It shall be also carried unto Assyria for a present to king Jareb: Ephraim shall receive shame, and Israel shall be ashamed of his own counsel.

10:7    至於撒瑪利亞，她的王必滅沒，如水面的沫子一樣。
As for Samaria, her king is cut off as the foam upon the water.

10:8    伯亞文的邱壇就是以色列取罪的地方，必被毀滅，荊棘和蒺藜必長在他們的祭壇上，他們必對大山說，遮蓋我們，對小山說，倒在我們身上。
The high places also of Aven, the sin of Israel, shall be destroyed: the thorn and the thistle shall come up on their altars; and they shall say to the mountains, Cover us; and to the hills, Fall on us.

10:9    以色列阿，你從基比亞的日子以來，時常犯罪。你們的先人曾站在那裡，現今住基比亞的人以為攻擊罪孽之輩的戰事臨不到自己。
O Israel, thou hast sinned from the days of Gibeah: there they stood: the battle in Gibeah against the children of iniquity did not overtake them.

10:10    我必隨意懲罰他們。他們為兩樣的罪所纏，列邦的民必聚集攻擊他們。
It is in my desire that I should chastise them; and the people shall be gathered against them, when they shall bind themselves in their two furrows.

10:11    以法蓮是馴良的母牛犢，喜愛踹谷，我卻將軛加在它肥美的頸項上，我要使以法蓮拉套（或作被騎）。猶大必耕田，雅各必耙地。
And Ephraim is as an heifer that is taught, and loveth to tread out the corn; but I passed over upon her fair neck: I will make Ephraim to ride; Judah shall plow, and Jacob shall break his clods.

10:12    你們要為自己栽種公義，就能收割慈愛。現今正是尋求耶和華的時候，你們要開墾荒地，等他臨到，使公義如雨降在你們身上。
Sow to yourselves in righteousness, reap in mercy; break up your fallow ground: for it is time to seek the LORD, till he come and rain righteousness upon you.

10:13    你們耕種的是奸惡，收割的是罪孽，吃的是謊話的果子。因你倚靠自己的行為，仰賴勇士眾多。
Ye have plowed wickedness, ye have reaped iniquity; ye have eaten the fruit of lies: because thou didst trust in thy way, in the multitude of thy mighty men.

10:14    所以在這民中必有哄囔之聲，你一切的保障必被拆毀，就如沙勒幔在爭戰的日子拆毀伯亞比勒，將其中的母子一同摔死。
Therefore shall a tumult arise among thy people, and all thy fortresses shall be spoiled, as Shalman spoiled Betharbel in the day of battle: the mother was dashed in pieces upon her children.

10:15    因他們的大惡，伯特利必使你們遭遇如此。到了黎明，以色列的王必全然滅絕。
So shall Bethel do unto you because of your great wickedness: in a morning shall the king of Israel utterly be cut off.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


11:1    以色列年幼的時候，我愛他，就從埃及少出我的兒子來。
When Israel was a child, then I loved him, and called my son out of Egypt.

11:2    先知越發招呼他們，他們越發走開，向諸巴力獻祭，給雕刻的偶像燒香。
As they called them, so they went from them: they sacrificed unto Baalim, and burned incense to graven images.

11:3    我原教導以法蓮行走，用膀臂抱著他們，他們卻不知道是我醫治他們。
I taught Ephraim also to go, taking them by their arms; but they knew not that I healed them.

11:4    我用慈繩（慈原文是人的）愛索牽引他們，我待他們如人放鬆牛的兩腮夾板，把糧食放在他們面前。
I drew them with cords of a man, with bands of love: and I was to them as they that take off the yoke on their jaws, and I laid meat unto them.

11:5    他們必不歸回埃及地，亞述人卻要作他們的王，因他們不肯歸向我。
He shall not return into the land of Egypt, but the Assyrian shall be his king, because they refused to return.

11:6    刀劍必臨到他們的城邑，毀壞門閂，把人吞滅，都因他們隨從自己的計謀。
And the sword shall abide on his cities, and shall consume his branches, and devour them, because of their own counsels.

11:7    我的民偏要背道離開我，眾先知雖然招呼他們歸向至上的主，卻無人尊崇主。
And my people are bent to backsliding from me: though they called them to the most High, none at all would exalt him.

11:8    以法蓮哪，我怎能捨棄你，以色列阿，我怎能棄絕你，我怎能使你如押瑪，怎能使你如洗扁，我回心轉意，我的憐愛大大發動。
How shall I give thee up, Ephraim? how shall I deliver thee, Israel? how shall I make thee as Admah? how shall I set thee as Zeboim? mine heart is turned within me, my repentings are kindled together.

11:9    我必不發猛烈的怒氣，也不再毀滅以法蓮，因我是神，並非世人，是你們中間的聖者，我必不在怒中臨到你們。
I will not execute the fierceness of mine anger, I will not return to destroy Ephraim: for I am God, and not man; the Holy One in the midst of thee: and I will not enter into the city.

11:10    耶和華必如獅子吼叫，子民必跟隨他。他一吼叫，他們就從西方急速而來。
They shall walk after the LORD: he shall roar like a lion: when he shall roar, then the children shall tremble from the west.

11:11    他們必如雀鳥從埃及急速而來，又如鴿子從亞述地來到，我必使他們住自己的房屋。這是耶和華說的。
They shall tremble as a bird out of Egypt, and as a dove out of the land of Assyria: and I will place them in their houses, saith the LORD.

11:12    以法蓮用謊話，以色列家用詭計圍繞我，猶大卻靠神掌權，向聖者有忠心。（或作猶大向神，向誠實的聖者猶疑不定）。
Ephraim compasseth me about with lies, and the house of Israel with deceit: but Judah yet ruleth with God, and is faithful with the saints.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


12:1    以法蓮吃風，且追趕東風。時常增添虛謊和強暴。與亞述立約，把油送到埃及。
Ephraim feedeth on wind, and followeth after the east wind: he daily increaseth lies and desolation; and they do make a covenant with the Assyrians, and oil is carried into Egypt.

12:2    耶和華與猶大爭辯，必照雅各所行的懲罰他，按他所做的報應他。
The LORD hath also a controversy with Judah, and will punish Jacob according to his ways; according to his doings will he recompense him.

12:3    他在腹中抓住哥哥的腳跟，壯年的時候與神較力。
He took his brother by the heel in the womb, and by his strength he had power with God:

12:4    與天使較力，並且得勝，哭泣懇求，在伯特利遇見耶和華。
Yea, he had power over the angel, and prevailed: he wept, and made supplication unto him: he found him in Bethel, and there he spake with us;

12:5    耶和華萬軍之神在那裡曉諭我們以色列人，耶和華是他可記念的名。
Even the LORD God of hosts; the LORD is his memorial.

12:6    所以你當歸向你的神，謹守仁愛，公平，常常等候你的神。
Therefore turn thou to thy God: keep mercy and judgment, and wait on thy God continually.

12:7    以法蓮是商人，手裡有詭詐的天平，愛行欺騙。
He is a merchant, the balances of deceit are in his hand: he loveth to oppress.

12:8    以法蓮說，我果然成了富足，得了財寶，我所勞碌得來的，人必不見有什麼不義，可算為罪的。
And Ephraim said, Yet I am become rich, I have found me out substance: in all my labours they shall find none iniquity in me that were sin.

12:9    自從你出埃及地以來，我就是耶和華你的神，我必使你再住帳棚，如在大會的日子一樣。
And I that am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt will yet make thee to dwell in tabernacles, as in the days of the solemn feast.

12:10    我已曉諭眾先知，並且加增默示，藉先知設立比喻。
I have also spoken by the prophets, and I have multiplied visions, and used similitudes, by the ministry of the prophets.

12:11    基列人沒有罪孽嗎。他們全然是虛假的。人在吉甲獻牛犢為祭，他們的祭壇，好像田間犁溝中的亂堆。
Is there iniquity in Gilead? surely they are vanity: they sacrifice bullocks in Gilgal; yea, their altars are as heaps in the furrows of the fields.

12:12    從前雅各逃到亞蘭地，以色列為得妻服事人，為得妻與人放羊。
And Jacob fled into the country of Syria, and Israel served for a wife, and for a wife he kept sheep.

12:13    耶和華藉先知領以色列從埃及上來，以色列也藉先知而得儲存。
And by a prophet the LORD brought Israel out of Egypt, and by a prophet was he preserved.

12:14    以法蓮大大惹動主怒，所以他流血的罪，必歸在他身上，主必將那因以法蓮所受的羞辱歸還他。
Ephraim provoked him to anger most bitterly: therefore shall he leave his blood upon him, and his reproach shall his LORD return unto him.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


13:1    從前以法蓮說話，人都戰兢，他在以色列中居處高位，但他在事奉巴力的事上犯罪就死了。
When Ephraim spake trembling, he exalted himself in Israel; but when he offended in Baal, he died.

13:2    現今他們罪上加罪，用銀子為自己鑄造偶像，就是照自己的聰明製造。都是匠人的工作，有人論說，獻祭的人可以向牛犢親嘴。
And now they sin more and more, and have made them molten images of their silver, and idols according to their own understanding, all of it the work of the craftsmen: they say of them, Let the men that sacrifice kiss the calves.

13:3    因此，他們必如早晨的雲霧，又如速散的甘露，像場上的糠秕被狂風吹去，又像煙氣騰於窗外。
Therefore they shall be as the morning cloud, and as the early dew that passeth away, as the chaff that is driven with the whirlwind out of the floor, and as the smoke out of the chimney.

13:4    自從你出埃及地以來，我就是耶和華你的神。在我以外，你不可認識別神，除我以外並沒有救主。
Yet I am the LORD thy God from the land of Egypt, and thou shalt know no god but me: for there is no saviour beside me.

13:5    我曾在曠野乾旱之地認識你。
I did know thee in the wilderness, in the land of great drought.

13:6    這些民照我所賜的食物得了飽足，既得飽足，心就高傲，忘記了我。
According to their pasture, so were they filled; they were filled, and their heart was exalted; therefore have they forgotten me.

13:7    因此，我向他們如獅子，又如豹伏在道旁。
Therefore I will be unto them as a lion: as a leopard by the way will I observe them:

13:8    我遇見他們必像丟崽子的母熊，撕裂他們的胸膛（或作心膜），在那裡，我必像母獅吞吃他們。野獸必撕裂他們。
I will meet them as a bear that is bereaved of her whelps, and will rend the caul of their heart, and there will I devour them like a lion: the wild beast shall tear them.

13:9    以色列阿，你與我反對，就是反對幫助你的，自取敗壞。
O Israel, thou hast destroyed thyself; but in me is thine help.

13:10    你曾求我說，給我立王和首領，現在你的王在哪裡呢，治理你的在哪裡呢，讓他在你所有的城中拯救你吧。
I will be thy king: where is any other that may save thee in all thy cities? and thy judges of whom thou saidst, Give me a king and princes?

13:11    我在怒氣中將王賜你，又在烈怒中將王廢去。
I gave thee a king in mine anger, and took him away in my wrath.

13:12    以法蓮的罪孽包裹，他的罪惡收藏。
The iniquity of Ephraim is bound up; his sin is hid.

13:13    產婦的疼痛必臨到他身上。他是無智慧之子，到了產期不當遲延。
The sorrows of a travailing woman shall come upon him: he is an unwise son; for he should not stay long in the place of the breaking forth of children.

13:14    我必救贖他們脫離陰間，救贖他們脫離死亡。死亡阿，你的災害在哪裡呢。陰間哪，你的毀滅在哪裡呢。在我眼前絕無後悔之事。
I will ransom them from the power of the grave; I will redeem them from death: O death, I will be thy plagues; O grave, I will be thy destruction: repentance shall be hid from mine eyes.

13:15    他在弟兄中雖然茂盛，必有東風颳來，就是耶和華的風從曠野上來，他的泉源必乾，他的源頭必竭，仇敵必擄掠他所積蓄的一切寶器。
Though he be fruitful among his brethren, an east wind shall come, the wind of the LORD shall come up from the wilderness, and his spring shall become dry, and his fountain shall be dried up: he shall spoil the treasure of all pleasant vessels.

13:16    撒瑪利亞必擔當自己的罪，因為悖逆她的神。她必倒在刀下，嬰孩必被摔死。孕婦必被剖開。
Samaria shall become desolate; for she hath rebelled against her God: they shall fall by the sword: their infants shall be dashed in pieces, and their women with child shall be ripped up.




舊約 -- 何西阿書(Hosea) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


14:1    以色列阿，你要歸向耶和華你的神。你是因自己的罪孽跌倒了。
O Israel, return unto the LORD thy God; for thou hast fallen by thine iniquity.

14:2    當歸向耶和華，用言語禱告他說，求你除淨罪孽，悅納善行，這樣。我們就把嘴脣的祭，代替牛犢獻上。
Take with you words, and turn to the LORD: say unto him, Take away all iniquity, and receive us graciously: so will we render the calves of our lips.

14:3    我們不向亞述求救。不騎埃及的馬。也不再對我們手所造的說，你是我們的神。因為孤兒在你耶和華那裡得蒙憐憫。
Asshur shall not save us; we will not ride upon horses: neither will we say any more to the work of our hands, Ye are our gods: for in thee the fatherless findeth mercy.

14:4    我必醫治他們背道的病，甘心愛他們，因為我的怒氣向他們轉消。
I will heal their backsliding, I will love them freely: for mine anger is turned away from him.

14:5    我必向以色列如甘露，他必如百合花開放，如黎巴嫩的樹木紮根。
I will be as the dew unto Israel: he shall grow as the lily, and cast forth his roots as Lebanon.

14:6    他的枝條必延長，他的榮華如橄欖樹，他的香氣如黎巴嫩的香柏樹。
His branches shall spread, and his beauty shall be as the olive tree, and his smell as Lebanon.

14:7    曾住在他蔭下的必歸回，發旺如五穀。開花如葡萄樹。他的香氣如黎巴嫩的酒。
They that dwell under his shadow shall return; they shall revive as the corn, and grow as the vine: the scent thereof shall be as the wine of Lebanon.

14:8    以法蓮必說，我與偶像還有什麼關涉呢。我耶和華回答他，也必顧念他。我如青翠的松樹，你的果子從我而得。
Ephraim shall say, What have I to do any more with idols? I have heard him, and observed him: I am like a green fir tree. From me is thy fruit found.

14:9    誰是智慧人，可以明白這些事，誰是通達人，可以知道這一切。因為，耶和華的道是正直的，義人必在其中行走，罪人卻在其上跌倒。
Who is wise, and he shall understand these things? prudent, and he shall know them? for the ways of the LORD are right, and the just shall walk in them: but the transgressors shall fall therein.




