


舊約 -- 約珥書(Joel) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    耶和華的話臨到毗土珥的兒子約珥。
The word of the LORD that came to Joel the son of Pethuel.

1:2    老年人哪，當聽我的話。國中的居民哪，都要側耳而聽。在你們的日子，或你們列祖的日子，曾有這樣的事嗎。
Hear this, ye old men, and give ear, all ye inhabitants of the land. Hath this been in your days, or even in the days of your fathers?

1:3    你們要將這事傳與子，子傳與孫，孫傳與後代。
Tell ye your children of it, and let your children tell their children, and their children another generation.

1:4    剪蟲剩下的，蝗蟲來吃。蝗蟲剩下的，蝻子來吃。蝻子剩下的，螞蚱來吃。
That which the palmerworm hath left hath the locust eaten; and that which the locust hath left hath the cankerworm eaten; and that which the cankerworm hath left hath the caterpiller eaten.

1:5    酒醉的人哪，要清醒哭泣。好酒的人哪，都要為甜酒哀號。因為從你們的口中斷絕了。
Awake, ye drunkards, and weep; and howl, all ye drinkers of wine, because of the new wine; for it is cut off from your mouth.

1:6    有一隊蝗蟲（原文是民）又強盛又無數，侵犯我的地。它的牙齒如獅子的牙齒，大牙如母獅的大牙。
For a nation is come up upon my land, strong, and without number, whose teeth are the teeth of a lion, and he hath the cheek teeth of a great lion.

1:7    它毀壞我的葡萄樹，剝了我無花果樹的皮，剝盡而丟棄，使枝條露白。
He hath laid my vine waste, and barked my fig tree: he hath made it clean bare, and cast it away; the branches thereof are made white.

1:8    我的民哪，你當哀號，像處女腰束麻布，為幼年的丈夫哀號。
Lament like a virgin girded with sackcloth for the husband of her youth.

1:9    素祭和奠祭從耶和華的殿中斷絕。事奉耶和華的祭司都悲哀。
The meat offering and the drink offering is cut off from the house of the LORD; the priests, the LORD's ministers, mourn.

1:10    田荒涼，地悲哀，因為五穀毀壞，新酒乾竭，油也缺乏。
The field is wasted, the land mourneth; for the corn is wasted: the new wine is dried up, the oil languisheth.

1:11    農夫阿，你們要慚愧，修理葡萄園的阿，你們要哀號，因為大麥小麥，與田間的莊稼，都滅絕了。
Be ye ashamed, O ye husbandmen; howl, O ye vinedressers, for the wheat and for the barley; because the harvest of the field is perished.

1:12    葡萄樹枯乾，無花果樹衰殘。石榴樹，棕樹，蘋果樹，連田野一切的樹木，也都枯乾。眾人的喜樂盡都消滅。
The vine is dried up, and the fig tree languisheth; the pomegranate tree, the palm tree also, and the apple tree, even all the trees of the field, are withered: because joy is withered away from the sons of men.

1:13    祭司阿，你們當腰束麻布痛哭。伺候祭壇的阿，你們要哀號。事奉我神的阿，你們要來披上麻布過夜。因為素祭，和奠祭，從你們神的殿中斷絕了。
Gird yourselves, and lament, ye priests: howl, ye ministers of the altar: come, lie all night in sackcloth, ye ministers of my God: for the meat offering and the drink offering is withholden from the house of your God.

1:14    你們要分定禁食的日子，宣告嚴肅會，招聚長老，和國中的一切居民，到耶和華你們神的殿，向耶和華哀求。
Sanctify ye a fast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land into the house of the LORD your God, and cry unto the LORD.

1:15    哀哉，耶和華的日子臨近了。這日來到，好像毀滅從全能者來到。
Alas for the day! for the day of the LORD is at hand, and as a destruction from the Almighty shall it come.

1:16    糧食不是在我們眼前斷絕了嗎。歡喜快樂不是從我們神的殿中止息了嗎。
Is not the meat cut off before our eyes, yea, joy and gladness from the house of our God?

1:17    谷種在土塊下朽爛。倉也荒涼，廩也破壞。因為五穀枯乾了。
The seed is rotten under their clods, the garners are laid desolate, the barns are broken down; for the corn is withered.

1:18    牲畜哀嗚，牛群混亂，因為無草。羊群也受了困苦。
How do the beasts groan! the herds of cattle are perplexed, because they have no pasture; yea, the flocks of sheep are made desolate.

1:19    耶和華阿，我向你求告。因為火燒滅曠野的草場，火焰燒盡田野的樹木。
O LORD, to thee will I cry: for the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and the flame hath burned all the trees of the field.

1:20    田野的走獸向你發喘。因為溪水乾涸，火也燒滅曠野的草場。
The beasts of the field cry also unto thee: for the rivers of waters are dried up, and the fire hath devoured the pastures of the wilderness.




舊約 -- 約珥書(Joel) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


2:1    你們要在錫安吹角，在我聖山吹出大聲。國中的居民，都要發顫。因為耶和華的日子將到，已經臨近。
Blow ye the trumpet in Zion, and sound an alarm in my holy mountain: let all the inhabitants of the land tremble: for the day of the LORD cometh, for it is nigh at hand;

2:2    那日是黑暗，幽冥，密雲，烏黑的日子，好像晨光鋪滿山嶺。有一隊蝗蟲作民又大又強。從來沒有這樣的，以後直到萬代，也必沒有。
A day of darkness and of gloominess, a day of clouds and of thick darkness, as the morning spread upon the mountains: a great people and a strong; there hath not been ever the like, neither shall be any more after it, even to the years of many generations.

2:3    他們前面如火燒滅，後面如火焰燒盡。未到以前，地如伊甸園，過去以後，成了荒涼的曠野。沒有一樣能躲避他們的。
A fire devoureth before them; and behind them a flame burneth: the land is as the garden of Eden before them, and behind them a desolate wilderness; yea, and nothing shall escape them.

2:4    他們的行狀如馬，奔跑如馬兵。
The appearance of them is as the appearance of horses; and as horsemen, so shall they run.

2:5    在山頂蹦跳的響聲，如車輛的響聲，又如火焰燒碎秸的響聲，好像強盛的民擺陣豫備打仗。
Like the noise of chariots on the tops of mountains shall they leap, like the noise of a flame of fire that devoureth the stubble, as a strong people set in battle array.

2:6    他們一來，眾民傷慟，臉都變色。
Before their face the people shall be much pained: all faces shall gather blackness.

2:7    他們如勇士奔跑，像戰士爬城，各都步行，不亂隊伍。
They shall run like mighty men; they shall climb the wall like men of war; and they shall march every one on his ways, and they shall not break their ranks:

2:8    彼此並不擁擠，向前各行其路。直闖兵器，不偏左右。
Neither shall one thrust another; they shall walk every one in his path: and when they fall upon the sword, they shall not be wounded.

2:9    他們蹦上城，躥上牆，爬上房屋，進入窗戶如同盜賊。
They shall run to and fro in the city; they shall run upon the wall, they shall climb up upon the houses; they shall enter in at the windows like a thief.

2:10    他們一來地震天動，日月昏暗，星宿無光。
The earth shall quake before them; the heavens shall tremble: the sun and the moon shall be dark, and the stars shall withdraw their shining:

2:11    耶和華在他軍旅前發聲。他的隊伍甚大。成就他命的，是強盛者。因為耶和華的日子大而可畏。誰能當得起呢。
And the LORD shall utter his voice before his army: for his camp is very great: for he is strong that executeth his word: for the day of the LORD is great and very terrible; and who can abide it?

2:12    耶和華說，雖然如此。你們應當禁食，哭泣，悲哀，一心歸向我。
Therefore also now, saith the LORD, turn ye even to me with all your heart, and with fasting, and with weeping, and with mourning:

2:13    你們要撕裂心腸，不撕裂衣服。歸向耶和華你們的神。因為他有恩典。有憐憫，不輕易發怒，有豐盛的慈愛，並且後悔不降所說的災。
And rend your heart, and not your garments, and turn unto the LORD your God: for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repenteth him of the evil.

2:14    或者他轉意後悔，留下餘福，就是留下獻給耶和華你們神的素祭，和奠祭，也未可知。
Who knoweth if he will return and repent, and leave a blessing behind him; even a meat offering and a drink offering unto the LORD your God?

2:15    你們要在錫安吹角，分定禁食的日子，宣告嚴肅會。
Blow the trumpet in Zion, sanctify a fast, call a solemn assembly:

2:16    聚集眾民，使會眾自潔，招聚老者，聚集孩童，和吃奶的。使新郎出離洞房，新婦出離內室。
Gather the people, sanctify the congregation, assemble the elders, gather the children, and those that suck the breasts: let the bridegroom go forth of his chamber, and the bride out of her closet.

2:17    事奉耶和華的祭司，要在廊子和祭壇中間哭泣，說，耶和華阿，求你顧惜你的百姓，不要使你的產業受羞辱，列邦管轄他們。為何容列國的人說，他們的神在那裡呢。
Let the priests, the ministers of the LORD, weep between the porch and the altar, and let them say, Spare thy people, O LORD, and give not thine heritage to reproach, that the heathen should rule over them: wherefore should they say among the people, Where is their God?

2:18    耶和華就為自己的地發熱心，憐恤他的百姓。
Then will the LORD be jealous for his land, and pity his people.

2:19    耶和華應允他的百姓，說，我必賜給你們五穀，新酒，和油，使你們飽足。我也不再使你們受列國的羞辱。
Yea, the LORD will answer and say unto his people, Behold, I will send you corn, and wine, and oil, and ye shall be satisfied therewith: and I will no more make you a reproach among the heathen:

2:20    卻要使北方來的軍隊遠離你們，將他們趕到乾旱荒廢之地，前隊趕入東海，後隊趕入西海。因為他們所行的大惡（原文是事），臭氣上升，腥味騰空。
But I will remove far off from you the northern army, and will drive him into a land barren and desolate, with his face toward the east sea, and his hinder part toward the utmost sea, and his stink shall come up, and his ill savour shall come up, because he hath done great things.

2:21    地土阿，不要懼怕，要歡喜快樂。因為耶和華行了大事。
Fear not, O land; be glad and rejoice: for the LORD will do great things.

2:22    田野的走獸阿，不要懼怕。因為曠野的草發生，樹木結果，無花果樹。葡萄樹也都效力。
Be not afraid, ye beasts of the field: for the pastures of the wilderness do spring, for the tree beareth her fruit, the fig tree and the vine do yield their strength.

2:23    錫安的民哪，你們要快樂，為耶和華你們的神歡喜。因他賜給你們合宜的秋雨，為你們降下甘霖，就是秋雨，春雨，和先前一樣。
Be glad then, ye children of Zion, and rejoice in the LORD your God: for he hath given you the former rain moderately, and he will cause to come down for you the rain, the former rain, and the latter rain in the first month.

2:24    禾場必滿了麥子，酒榨與油榨必有新酒和油盈溢。
And the floors shall be full of wheat, and the vats shall overflow with wine and oil.

2:25    我打發到你們中間的大軍隊，就是蝗蟲，蝻子，螞蚱，剪蟲，那些年所吃的，我要補還你們。
And I will restore to you the years that the locust hath eaten, the cankerworm, and the caterpiller, and the palmerworm, my great army which I sent among you.

2:26    你們必多吃，而得飽足，就讚美為你們行奇妙事之耶和華你們神的名。我的百姓，必永遠不至羞愧。
And ye shall eat in plenty, and be satisfied, and praise the name of the LORD your God, that hath dealt wondrously with you: and my people shall never be ashamed.

2:27    你們必知道我是在以色列中間，又知道我是耶和華你們的神，在我以外並無別神。我的百姓必永遠不至羞愧。
And ye shall know that I am in the midst of Israel, and that I am the LORD your God, and none else: and my people shall never be ashamed.

2:28    以後，我要將我的靈澆灌凡有血氣的。你們的兒女要說預言。你們的老年人要作異夢。少年人要見異象。
And it shall come to pass afterward, that I will pour out my spirit upon all flesh; and your sons and your daughters shall prophesy, your old men shall dream dreams, your young men shall see visions:

2:29    在那些日子，我要將我的靈澆灌我的僕人和使女。
And also upon the servants and upon the handmaids in those days will I pour out my spirit.

2:30    在天上地下，我要顯出奇事，有血有火，有煙柱。
And I will shew wonders in the heavens and in the earth, blood, and fire, and pillars of smoke.

2:31    日頭要變為黑暗，月亮要變為血，這都是耶和華大而可畏的日子未到以前。
The sun shall be turned into darkness, and the moon into blood, before the great and the terrible day of the LORD come.

2:32    那時候，凡求告耶和華名的就必得救。因為照耶和華所說的，在錫安山耶路撒冷必有逃脫的人，在剩下的人中必有耶和華所召的。
And it shall come to pass, that whosoever shall call on the name of the LORD shall be delivered: for in mount Zion and in Jerusalem shall be deliverance, as the LORD hath said, and in the remnant whom the LORD shall call.




舊約 -- 約珥書(Joel) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    到那日，我使猶大和耶路撒冷被擄之人歸回的時候，
For, behold, in those days, and in that time, when I shall bring again the captivity of Judah and Jerusalem,

3:2    我要聚集萬民，帶他們下到約沙法谷。在那裡施行審判，因為他們將我的百姓，就是我的產業以色列，分散在列國中，又分取我的地土，
I will also gather all nations, and will bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat, and will plead with them there for my people and for my heritage Israel, whom they have scattered among the nations, and parted my land.

3:3    且為我的百姓拈鬮，將童子換妓女，賣童女買酒喝。
And they have cast lots for my people; and have given a boy for an harlot, and sold a girl for wine, that they might drink.

3:4    推羅，西頓，和非利士四境的人哪，你們與我何干。你們要報復我嗎。若報復我，我必使報應速速歸到你們的頭上。
Yea, and what have ye to do with me, O Tyre, and Zidon, and all the coasts of Palestine? will ye render me a recompence? and if ye recompense me, swiftly and speedily will I return your recompence upon your own head;

3:5    你們既然奪取我的金銀，又將我可愛的寶物帶入你們宮殿，（或作廟中），
Because ye have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried into your temples my goodly pleasant things:

3:6    並將猶大人，和耶路撒冷人，賣給希臘人（原文是雅完人），使他們遠離自己的境界。
The children also of Judah and the children of Jerusalem have ye sold unto the Grecians, that ye might remove them far from their border.

3:7    我必激動他們離開你們所賣到之地，又必使報應歸到你們的頭上。
Behold, I will raise them out of the place whither ye have sold them, and will return your recompence upon your own head:

3:8    我必將你們的兒女賣在猶大人的手中，他們必賣給遠方示巴國的人。這是耶和華說的。
And I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the children of Judah, and they shall sell them to the Sabeans, to a people far off: for the LORD hath spoken it.

3:9    當在萬民中宣告說，要預備打仗。激動勇士。使一切戰士上前來。
Proclaim ye this among the Gentiles; Prepare war, wake up the mighty men, let all the men of war draw near; let them come up:

3:10    要將犁頭打成刀劍，將鐮刀打成戈矛。軟弱的要說，我有勇力。
Beat your plowshares into swords, and your pruninghooks into spears: let the weak say, I am strong.

3:11    四圍的列國阿，你們要速速地來，一同聚集。耶和華阿，求你使你的大能者降臨。
Assemble yourselves, and come, all ye heathen, and gather yourselves together round about: thither cause thy mighty ones to come down, O LORD.

3:12    萬民都當興起，上到約沙法谷。因為我必坐在那裡，審判四圍的列國。
Let the heathen be wakened, and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat: for there will I sit to judge all the heathen round about.

3:13    開鐮吧。因為莊稼熟了。踐踏吧。因為酒榨滿了，酒池盈溢。他們的罪惡甚大。
Put ye in the sickle, for the harvest is ripe: come, get you down; for the press is full, the fats overflow; for their wickedness is great.

3:14    許多許多的人在斷定谷。因為耶和華的日子臨近斷定谷。
Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision: for the day of the LORD is near in the valley of decision.

3:15    日月昏暗，星宿無光。
The sun and the moon shall be darkened, and the stars shall withdraw their shining.

3:16    耶和華必從錫安吼叫，從耶路撒冷發聲。天地就震動。耶和華卻要作他百姓的避難所，作以色列人的保障。
The LORD also shall roar out of Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the heavens and the earth shall shake: but the LORD will be the hope of his people, and the strength of the children of Israel.

3:17    你們就知道我是耶和華你們的神，且又住在錫安我的聖山。那時，耶路撒冷必成為聖，外邦人不再從其中經過。
So shall ye know that I am the LORD your God dwelling in Zion, my holy mountain: then shall Jerusalem be holy, and there shall no strangers pass through her any more.

3:18    到那日，大山要滴甜酒。小山要流奶子，猶大溪河都有水流。必有泉源從耶和華的殿中流出來，滋潤什亭谷。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the mountains shall drop down new wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the rivers of Judah shall flow with waters, and a fountain shall come forth of the house of the LORD, and shall water the valley of Shittim.

3:19    埃及必然荒涼，以東變為淒涼的曠野，都因向猶大人所行的強暴，又因在本地流無辜人的血。
Egypt shall be a desolation, and Edom shall be a desolate wilderness, for the violence against the children of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land.

3:20    但猶大必存到永遠，耶路撒冷必存到萬代。
But Judah shall dwell for ever, and Jerusalem from generation to generation.

3:21    我未曾報復（或作洗除下同）流血的罪，現在我要報復。因為耶和華住在錫安。
For I will cleanse their blood that I have not cleansed: for the LORD dwelleth in Zion.




