
舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


1:1    當猶大王烏西雅，以色列王約阿施的兒子，耶羅波安在位的時候，大地震前二年，提哥亞牧人中的阿摩司得默示論以色列。
The words of Amos, who was among the herdmen of Tekoa, which he saw concerning Israel in the days of Uzziah king of Judah, and in the days of Jeroboam the son of Joash king of Israel, two years before the earthquake.

1:2    他說，耶和華必從錫安吼叫，從耶路撒冷發聲。牧人的草場要悲哀，迦密的山頂要枯乾。
And he said, The LORD will roar from Zion, and utter his voice from Jerusalem; and the habitations of the shepherds shall mourn, and the top of Carmel shall wither.

1:3    耶和華如此說，大馬士革三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去她的刑罰。因為她以傣糧食的鐵器打過基列。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Damascus, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have threshed Gilead with threshing instruments of iron:

1:4    我卻要降火在哈薛的家中，燒滅便哈達的宮殿。
But I will send a fire into the house of Hazael, which shall devour the palaces of Benhadad.

1:5    我必折斷大馬士革的門閂，剪除亞文平原的居民，和伯伊甸掌權的。亞蘭人必被擄到吉珥。這是耶和華說的。
I will break also the bar of Damascus, and cut off the inhabitant from the plain of Aven, and him that holdeth the sceptre from the house of Eden: and the people of Syria shall go into captivity unto Kir, saith the LORD.

1:6    耶和華如此說，迦薩三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去她的刑罰。因為她擄掠眾民交給以東。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Gaza, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they carried away captive the whole captivity, to deliver them up to Edom:

1:7    我卻要降火在迦薩的城內，燒滅其中的宮殿。
But I will send a fire on the wall of Gaza, which shall devour the palaces thereof:

1:8    我必剪除亞實突的居民，和亞實基倫掌權的。也必反手攻擊以革倫。非利士人所餘剩的必都滅亡。這是主耶和華說的。
And I will cut off the inhabitant from Ashdod, and him that holdeth the sceptre from Ashkelon, and I will turn mine hand against Ekron: and the remnant of the Philistines shall perish, saith the Lord GOD.

1:9    耶和華如此說，推羅三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去她的刑罰。因為她將眾民交給以東，並不記念弟兄的盟約。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Tyrus, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they delivered up the whole captivity to Edom, and remembered not the brotherly covenant:

1:10    我卻要降火在推羅的城內，燒滅其中的宮殿。
But I will send a fire on the wall of Tyrus, which shall devour the palaces thereof.

1:11    耶和華如此說，以東三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去她的刑罰。因為她拿刀追趕兄弟，毫無憐憫，發怒撕裂，永懷忿怒。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Edom, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he did pursue his brother with the sword, and did cast off all pity, and his anger did tear perpetually, and he kept his wrath for ever:

1:12    我卻要降火在毯螅，燒滅波斯拉的宮殿。
But I will send a fire upon Teman, which shall devour the palaces of Bozrah.

1:13    耶和華如此說，亞捫人三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他們的刑罰。因為他們剖開基列的孕婦，擴張自己的境界。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of the children of Ammon, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have ripped up the women with child of Gilead, that they might enlarge their border:

1:14    我卻要在爭戰吶喊的日子，旋風狂暴的時候，點火在拉巴的城內，燒滅其中的宮殿。
But I will kindle a fire in the wall of Rabbah, and it shall devour the palaces thereof, with shouting in the day of battle, with a tempest in the day of the whirlwind:

1:15    他們的王和首領，必一同被擄去。這是耶和華說的。
And their king shall go into captivity, he and his princes together, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


2:1    耶和華如此說，摩押三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去她的刑罰。因為她將以東王的骸骨焚燒成灰。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Moab, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because he burned the bones of the king of Edom into lime:

2:2    我卻要降火在摩押，燒滅加略的宮殿。摩押必在哄囔吶喊吹角之中死亡。
But I will send a fire upon Moab, and it shall devour the palaces of Kirioth: and Moab shall die with tumult, with shouting, and with the sound of the trumpet:

2:3    我必剪除摩押中的審判者，將其中的一切首領，和他一同殺戮。這是耶和華說的。
And I will cut off the judge from the midst thereof, and will slay all the princes thereof with him, saith the LORD.

2:4    耶和華如此說，猶大人三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他們的刑罰。因為他們厭棄耶和華的訓誨，不遵守他的律例。他們列祖所隨從虛假的偶像，使他們走迷了。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Judah, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they have despised the law of the LORD, and have not kept his commandments, and their lies caused them to err, after the which their fathers have walked:

2:5    我卻要降火在猶大，燒滅耶路撒冷的宮殿。
But I will send a fire upon Judah, and it shall devour the palaces of Jerusalem.

2:6    耶和華如此說，以色列人三番四次的犯罪，我必不免去他們的刑罰。因他們為銀子賣了義人，為一雙鞋賣了窮人。
Thus saith the LORD; For three transgressions of Israel, and for four, I will not turn away the punishment thereof; because they sold the righteous for silver, and the poor for a pair of shoes;

2:7    他們見窮人頭上所蒙的灰也都垂涎。阻礙謙卑人的道路。父子同一個女子行淫，褻瀆我的聖名。
That pant after the dust of the earth on the head of the poor, and turn aside the way of the meek: and a man and his father will go in unto the same maid, to profane my holy name:

2:8    他們在各壇旁，鋪人所當的衣服，臥在其上。又在他們神的廟中，喝受罰之人的酒。
And they lay themselves down upon clothes laid to pledge by every altar, and they drink the wine of the condemned in the house of their god.

2:9    我從以色列人面前除滅亞摩利人。他雖高大如香柏樹，堅固如橡樹，我卻上滅他的果子，下絕他的根本。
Yet destroyed I the Amorite before them, whose height was like the height of the cedars, and he was strong as the oaks; yet I destroyed his fruit from above, and his roots from beneath.

2:10    我也將你們從埃及地領上來，在曠野引導你們四十年，使你們得亞摩利人之地為業。
Also I brought you up from the land of Egypt, and led you forty years through the wilderness, to possess the land of the Amorite.

2:11    我從你們子弟中興起先知，又從你們少年人中興起拿細耳人。以色列人哪，不是這樣嗎。這是耶和華說的。
And I raised up of your sons for prophets, and of your young men for Nazarites. Is it not even thus, O ye children of Israel? saith the LORD.

2:12    你們卻給拿細耳人酒喝，囑咐先知說，不要說預言。
But ye gave the Nazarites wine to drink; and commanded the prophets, saying, Prophesy not.

2:13    看哪，在你們所住之地，我必壓你們，如同裝滿禾捆的車壓物一樣。
Behold, I am pressed under you, as a cart is pressed that is full of sheaves.

2:14    快跑的不能逃脫，有力的不能用力，剛勇的也不能自救。
Therefore the flight shall perish from the swift, and the strong shall not strengthen his force, neither shall the mighty deliver himself:

2:15    拿弓的不能站立，腿快的不能逃脫。騎馬的也不能自救。
Neither shall he stand that handleth the bow; and he that is swift of foot shall not deliver himself: neither shall he that rideth the horse deliver himself.

2:16    到那日，勇士中最有膽量的，必赤身逃跑。這是耶和華說的。
And he that is courageous among the mighty shall flee away naked in that day, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


3:1    以色列人哪，你們全家是我從埃及地領上來的，當聽耶和華攻擊你們的話。
Hear this word that the LORD hath spoken against you, O children of Israel, against the whole family which I brought up from the land of Egypt, saying,

3:2    在地上萬族中，我只認識你們。因此，我必追討你們的一切罪孽。
You only have I known of all the families of the earth: therefore I will punish you for all your iniquities.

3:3    二人若不同心，豈能同行呢。
Can two walk together, except they be agreed?

3:4    獅子若非抓食，豈能在林中咆哮呢。少壯獅子若無所得，豈能從洞中發聲呢。
Will a lion roar in the forest, when he hath no prey? will a young lion cry out of his den, if he have taken nothing?

3:5    若沒有機檻，雀鳥豈能陷在網羅裡呢。網羅若無所得，豈能從地上翻起呢。
Can a bird fall in a snare upon the earth, where no gin is for him? shall one take up a snare from the earth, and have taken nothing at all?

3:6    城中若吹角，百姓豈不驚恐呢。災禍若臨到一城，豈非耶和華所降的嗎。
Shall a trumpet be blown in the city, and the people not be afraid? shall there be evil in a city, and the LORD hath not done it?

3:7    主耶和華若不將奧祕指示他的僕人眾先知，就一無所行。
Surely the Lord GOD will do nothing, but he revealeth his secret unto his servants the prophets.

3:8    獅子吼叫，誰不懼怕呢。主耶和華髮命，誰能不說預言呢。
The lion hath roared, who will not fear? the Lord GOD hath spoken, who can but prophesy?

3:9    要在亞實突的宮殿中，和埃及地的宮殿裡，傳揚說，你們要聚集在撒瑪利亞的山上，就看見城中有何等大的擾亂與欺壓的事。
Publish in the palaces at Ashdod, and in the palaces in the land of Egypt, and say, Assemble yourselves upon the mountains of Samaria, and behold the great tumults in the midst thereof, and the oppressed in the midst thereof.

3:10    那些以強暴搶奪財物，積蓄在自己家中的人，不知道行正直的事。這是耶和華說的。
For they know not to do right, saith the LORD, who store up violence and robbery in their palaces.

3:11    所以主耶和華如此說，敵人必來圍攻這地，使你的勢力衰微，搶掠你的家宅。
Therefore thus saith the Lord GOD; An adversary there shall be even round about the land; and he shall bring down thy strength from thee, and thy palaces shall be spoiled.

3:12    耶和華如此說，牧人怎樣從獅子口中搶回兩條羊腿或半個耳朵，住撒瑪利亞的以色列人躺臥在床角上，或鋪繡花毯的榻上，他們得救也不過如此。
Thus saith the LORD; As the shepherd taketh out of the mouth of the lion two legs, or a piece of an ear; so shall the children of Israel be taken out that dwell in Samaria in the corner of a bed, and in Damascus in a couch.

3:13    主耶和華萬軍之神說，當聽這話，警戒雅各家。
Hear ye, and testify in the house of Jacob, saith the Lord GOD, the God of hosts,

3:14    我討以色列罪的日子，也要討伯特利祭壇的罪。壇角必被砍下，墜落於地。
That in the day that I shall visit the transgressions of Israel upon him I will also visit the altars of Bethel: and the horns of the altar shall be cut off, and fall to the ground.

3:15    我要拆毀過冬和過夏的房屋，象牙的房屋也必毀滅，高大的房屋都歸無有。這是耶和華說的。
And I will smite the winter house with the summer house; and the houses of ivory shall perish, and the great houses shall have an end, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


4:1    你們住撒瑪利亞山如巴珊母牛的阿，當聽我的話，你們欺負貧寒的，壓碎窮乏的，對家主說，拿酒來，我們喝吧。
Hear this word, ye kine of Bashan, that are in the mountain of Samaria, which oppress the poor, which crush the needy, which say to their masters, Bring, and let us drink.

4:2    主耶和華指著自己的聖潔起誓說，日子快到，人必用鉤子將你們鉤去，用魚鉤將你們餘剩的鉤去。
The Lord GOD hath sworn by his holiness, that, lo, the days shall come upon you, that he will take you away with hooks, and your posterity with fishhooks.

4:3    你們各人必從破口直往前行，投入哈門。這是耶和華說的。
And ye shall go out at the breaches, every cow at that which is before her; and ye shall cast them into the palace, saith the LORD.

4:4    以色列人哪，任你們往伯特利去犯罪，到吉甲加增罪過。每日早晨獻上你們的祭物，每三日奉上你們的十分之一。
Come to Bethel, and transgress; at Gilgal multiply transgression; and bring your sacrifices every morning, and your tithes after three years:

4:5    任你們獻有酵的感謝祭，把甘心祭宣傳報告給眾人，因為是你們所喜愛的。這是主耶和華說的。
And offer a sacrifice of thanksgiving with leaven, and proclaim and publish the free offerings: for this liketh you, O ye children of Israel, saith the Lord GOD.

4:6    我使你們在一切城中牙齒乾淨，在你們各處糧食缺乏，你們仍不歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
And I also have given you cleanness of teeth in all your cities, and want of bread in all your places: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

4:7    在收割的前三月，我使雨停止，不降在你們那裡。我降雨在這城，不降雨在那城。這塊地有雨，那塊地無雨，無雨的就枯乾了。
And also I have withholden the rain from you, when there were yet three months to the harvest: and I caused it to rain upon one city, and caused it not to rain upon another city: one piece was rained upon, and the piece whereupon it rained not withered.

4:8    這樣，兩三城的人湊到一城去找水，卻喝不足。你們仍不歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
So two or three cities wandered unto one city, to drink water; but they were not satisfied: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

4:9    我以旱（風，黴爛攻擊你們。你們園中許多菜蔬，葡萄樹，無花果樹，橄欖樹都被剪蟲所吃。你們仍不歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
I have smitten you with blasting and mildew: when your gardens and your vineyards and your fig trees and your olive trees increased, the palmerworm devoured them: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

4:10    我降瘟疫在你們中間，像在埃及一樣。用刀殺戮你們的少年人，使你們的馬匹被擄掠，營中屍首的臭氣撲鼻。你們仍不歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
I have sent among you the pestilence after the manner of Egypt: your young men have I slain with the sword, and have taken away your horses; and I have made the stink of your camps to come up unto your nostrils: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

4:11    我傾覆你們中間的城邑，如同我從前傾覆所多瑪，蛾摩拉一樣，使你們好像從火中抽出來的一根柴。你們仍不歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
I have overthrown some of you, as God overthrew Sodom and Gomorrah, and ye were as a firebrand plucked out of the burning: yet have ye not returned unto me, saith the LORD.

4:12    以色列阿，我必向你如此行。以色列阿，我既這樣行，你當預備迎見你的神。
Therefore thus will I do unto thee, O Israel: and because I will do this unto thee, prepare to meet thy God, O Israel.

4:13    那創山，造風，將心意指示人，使晨光變為幽暗，腳踏在地之高處的。他的名是耶和華萬軍之神。
For, lo, he that formeth the mountains, and createth the wind, and declareth unto man what is his thought, that maketh the morning darkness, and treadeth upon the high places of the earth, The LORD, The God of hosts, is his name.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


5:1    以色列家阿，要聽我為你們所作的哀歌。
Hear ye this word which I take up against you, even a lamentation, O house of Israel.

5:2    以色列民（原文是處女）跌倒，不得再起，躺在地上，無人攙扶。
The virgin of Israel is fallen; she shall no more rise: she is forsaken upon her land; there is none to raise her up.

5:3    主耶和華如此說，以色列家的城，發出一千兵的，只剩一百，發出一百的，只剩十個。
For thus saith the Lord GOD; The city that went out by a thousand shall leave an hundred, and that which went forth by an hundred shall leave ten, to the house of Israel.

5:4    耶和華向以色列家如此說，你們要尋求我，就必存活。
For thus saith the LORD unto the house of Israel, Seek ye me, and ye shall live:

5:5    不要往伯特利尋求，不要進入吉甲，不要過到別是巴。因為吉甲必被擄掠，伯特利也必歸於無有。
But seek not Bethel, nor enter into Gilgal, and pass not to Beersheba: for Gilgal shall surely go into captivity, and Bethel shall come to nought.

5:6    要尋求耶和華，就必存活。免得他在約瑟家像火發出，在伯特利焚燒，無人撲滅。
Seek the LORD, and ye shall live; lest he break out like fire in the house of Joseph, and devour it, and there be none to quench it in Bethel.

5:7    你們這使公平變為茵？？，將公義丟棄於地的，
Ye who turn judgment to wormwood, and leave off righteousness in the earth,

5:8    要尋求那造昴星和叄星，使死蔭變為晨光，使白日變為黑夜，命海水來澆在地上的，（耶和華是他的名）
Seek him that maketh the seven stars and Orion, and turneth the shadow of death into the morning, and maketh the day dark with night: that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name:

5:9    他使力強的忽遭滅亡，以致保障遭遇毀壞。
That strengtheneth the spoiled against the strong, so that the spoiled shall come against the fortress.

5:10    你們怨恨那在城門口責備人的，憎惡那說正直話的。
They hate him that rebuketh in the gate, and they abhor him that speaketh uprightly.

5:11    你們踐踏貧民，向他們勒索麥子。你們用鑿過的石頭建造房屋，卻不得住在其內，栽種美好的葡萄園，卻不得喝所出的酒。
Forasmuch therefore as your treading is upon the poor, and ye take from him burdens of wheat: ye have built houses of hewn stone, but ye shall not dwell in them; ye have planted pleasant vineyards, but ye shall not drink wine of them.

5:12    我知道你們的罪過何等多，你們的罪惡何等大。你們苦待義人，收受賄賂，在城門口屈枉窮乏人。
For I know your manifold transgressions and your mighty sins: they afflict the just, they take a bribe, and they turn aside the poor in the gate from their right.

5:13    所以通達人見這樣的時勢，必靜默不言。因為時勢真惡。
Therefore the prudent shall keep silence in that time; for it is an evil time.

5:14    你們要求善，不要求惡，就必存活。這樣，耶和華萬軍之神，必照你們所說的，與你們同在。
Seek good, and not evil, that ye may live: and so the LORD, the God of hosts, shall be with you, as ye have spoken.

5:15    要惡惡好善，在城門口秉公行義。或者耶和華萬軍之神，向約瑟的餘民施恩。
Hate the evil, and love the good, and establish judgment in the gate: it may be that the LORD God of hosts will be gracious unto the remnant of Joseph.

5:16    主耶和華萬軍之神如此說，在一切寬闊處必有哀號的聲音。在各街市上必有人說，哀哉，哀哉。又必叫農夫來哭號，叫善唱哀歌的來舉哀。
Therefore the LORD, the God of hosts, the LORD, saith thus; Wailing shall be in all streets; and they shall say in all the highways, Alas! alas! and they shall call the husbandman to mourning, and such as are skilful of lamentation to wailing.

5:17    在各葡萄園，必有哀號的聲音。因為我必從你中間經過。這是耶和華說的。
And in all vineyards shall be wailing: for I will pass through thee, saith the LORD.

5:18    想望耶和華日子來到的有禍了。你們為何想望耶和華的日子呢。那日黑暗沒有光明，
Woe unto you that desire the day of the LORD! to what end is it for you? the day of the LORD is darkness, and not light.

5:19    景況好像人躲避獅子又遇見熊。或是進房屋以手靠牆，就被蛇咬。
As if a man did flee from a lion, and a bear met him; or went into the house, and leaned his hand on the wall, and a serpent bit him.

5:20    耶和華的日子，不是黑暗沒有光明嗎。不是幽暗毫無光輝嗎。
Shall not the day of the LORD be darkness, and not light? even very dark, and no brightness in it?

5:21    我厭惡你們的節期，也不喜悅你們的嚴肅會。
I hate, I despise your feast days, and I will not smell in your solemn assemblies.

5:22    你們雖然向我獻燔祭，和素祭，我卻不悅納。也不顧你們用肥畜獻的平安祭。
Though ye offer me burnt offerings and your meat offerings, I will not accept them: neither will I regard the peace offerings of your fat beasts.

5:23    要使你們歌唱的聲音遠離我。因為我不聽你們彈琴的響聲。
Take thou away from me the noise of thy songs; for I will not hear the melody of thy viols.

5:24    惟願公平如大水滾滾，使公義如江河滔滔。
But let judgment run down as waters, and righteousness as a mighty stream.

5:25    以色列家阿，你們在曠野四十年，豈是將祭物和供物獻給我呢。
Have ye offered unto me sacrifices and offerings in the wilderness forty years, O house of Israel?

5:26    你們抬著為自己所造之摩洛的帳幕，和偶像的龕，並你們的神星。
But ye have borne the tabernacle of your Moloch and Chiun your images, the star of your god, which ye made to yourselves.

5:27    所以我要把你們擄到大馬士革以外。這是耶和華，名為萬軍之神說的。
Therefore will I cause you to go into captivity beyond Damascus, saith the LORD, whose name is The God of hosts.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


6:1    國為列國之首，人最著名，且為以色列家所歸向，在錫安和撒瑪利亞山安逸無慮的，有禍了。
Woe to them that are at ease in Zion, and trust in the mountain of Samaria, which are named chief of the nations, to whom the house of Israel came!

6:2    你們要過到甲尼察看，從那裡往大城哈馬去，又下到非利士人的迦特，看那些國比你們的國還強嗎。境界比你們的境界還寬嗎。
Pass ye unto Calneh, and see; and from thence go ye to Hamath the great: then go down to Gath of the Philistines: be they better than these kingdoms? or their border greater than your border?

6:3    你們以為降禍的日子還遠，坐在位上盡行強暴（或作行強暴使審判臨近）。
Ye that put far away the evil day, and cause the seat of violence to come near;

6:4    你們躺臥在象牙床上，舒身在榻上，吃群中的羊羔，棚裡的牛犢。
That lie upon beds of ivory, and stretch themselves upon their couches, and eat the lambs out of the flock, and the calves out of the midst of the stall;

6:5    彈琴鼓瑟唱消閒的歌曲，為自己製造樂器，如同大衛所造的。
That chant to the sound of the viol, and invent to themselves instruments of musick, like David;

6:6    以大碗喝酒，用上等的油抹身。卻不為約瑟的苦難擔憂。
That drink wine in bowls, and anoint themselves with the chief ointments: but they are not grieved for the affliction of Joseph.

6:7    所以這些人必在被擄的人中首先被擄。舒身的人荒宴之樂必消滅了。
Therefore now shall they go captive with the first that go captive, and the banquet of them that stretched themselves shall be removed.

6:8    主耶和華萬軍之神指著自己起誓說，我憎惡雅各的榮華，厭棄他的宮殿。因此，我必將城和其中所有的，都交付敵人。
The Lord GOD hath sworn by himself, saith the LORD the God of hosts, I abhor the excellency of Jacob, and hate his palaces: therefore will I deliver up the city with all that is therein.

6:9    那時，若在一房之內剩下十個人，也都必死。
And it shall come to pass, if there remain ten men in one house, that they shall die.

6:10    死人的伯叔，就是燒他屍首的，要將這屍首搬到房外，問房屋內間的人說，你那裡還有人沒有。他必說，沒有。又說，不要作聲，因為我們不可提耶和華的名。
And a man's uncle shall take him up, and he that burneth him, to bring out the bones out of the house, and shall say unto him that is by the sides of the house, Is there yet any with thee? and he shall say, No. Then shall he say, Hold thy tongue: for we may not make mention of the name of the LORD.

6:11    看哪，耶和華出令，大房就被攻破，小屋就被打裂。
For, behold, the LORD commandeth, and he will smite the great house with breaches, and the little house with clefts.

6:12    馬豈能在崖石上奔跑。人豈能在那裡用牛耕種呢。你們卻使公平變為苦膽，使公義的果子變為茵？？。
Shall horses run upon the rock? will one plow there with oxen? for ye have turned judgment into gall, and the fruit of righteousness into hemlock:

6:13    你們喜愛虛浮的事，自誇說，我們不是憑自己的力量取了角嗎。
Ye which rejoice in a thing of nought, which say, Have we not taken to us horns by our own strength?

6:14    耶和華，萬軍之神說，以色列家阿，我必興起一國攻擊你們。他們必欺壓你們，從哈馬口直到亞拉巴的河。
But, behold, I will raise up against you a nation, O house of Israel, saith the LORD the God of hosts; and they shall afflict you from the entering in of Hemath unto the river of the wilderness.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


7:1    主耶和華指示我一件事。為王割菜（或作草）之後，菜又發生，剛發生的時候，主造蝗蟲。
Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me; and, behold, he formed grasshoppers in the beginning of the shooting up of the latter growth; and, lo, it was the latter growth after the king's mowings.

7:2    蝗蟲吃盡那地的青物，我就說，主耶和華阿，求你赦免。因為雅各微弱，他怎能站立得住呢。
And it came to pass, that when they had made an end of eating the grass of the land, then I said, O Lord GOD, forgive, I beseech thee: by whom shall Jacob arise? for he is small.

7:3    耶和華就後悔說，這災可以免了。
The LORD repented for this: It shall not be, saith the LORD.

7:4    主耶和華又指示我一件事。他命火來懲罰以色列，火就吞滅深淵，險些將地燒滅。
Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and, behold, the Lord GOD called to contend by fire, and it devoured the great deep, and did eat up a part.

7:5    我就說，主耶和華阿，求你止息。因為雅各微弱。他怎能站立得住呢。
Then said I, O Lord GOD, cease, I beseech thee: by whom shall Jacob arise? for he is small.

7:6    耶和華就後悔說，這災也可免了。
The LORD repented for this: This also shall not be, saith the Lord GOD.

7:7    他又指示我一件事。有一道牆是按準繩建築的，主手拿準繩站在其上。
Thus he shewed me: and, behold, the LORD stood upon a wall made by a plumbline, with a plumbline in his hand.

7:8    耶和華對我說，阿摩司阿，你看見什麼。我說，看見準繩。主說，我要吊起準繩在我民以色列中。我必不再寬恕他們。
And the LORD said unto me, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A plumbline. Then said the LORD, Behold, I will set a plumbline in the midst of my people Israel: I will not again pass by them any more:

7:9    以撒的邱壇必然淒涼，以色列的聖所必然荒廢。我必興起，用刀攻擊耶羅波安的家。
And the high places of Isaac shall be desolate, and the sanctuaries of Israel shall be laid waste; and I will rise against the house of Jeroboam with the sword.

7:10    伯特利的祭司亞瑪謝打發人，到以色列王耶羅波安那裡，說，阿摩司在以色列家中圖謀背叛你。他所說的一切話，這國擔當不起。
Then Amaziah the priest of Bethel sent to Jeroboam king of Israel, saying, Amos hath conspired against thee in the midst of the house of Israel: the land is not able to bear all his words.

7:11    因為阿摩司如此說，耶羅波安必被刀殺，以色列民定被擄去離開本地。
For thus Amos saith, Jeroboam shall die by the sword, and Israel shall surely be led away captive out of their own land.

7:12    亞瑪謝又對阿摩司說，你這先見哪，要逃往猶大地去，在那裡餬口，在那裡說預言。
Also Amaziah said unto Amos, O thou seer, go, flee thee away into the land of Judah, and there eat bread, and prophesy there:

7:13    卻不要在伯特利再說預言，因為這裡有王的聖所，有王的宮殿。
But prophesy not again any more at Bethel: for it is the king's chapel, and it is the king's court.

7:14    阿摩司對亞瑪謝說，我原不是先知，也不是先知的門徒（原文作兒子）。我是牧人，又是修理桑樹的。
Then answered Amos, and said to Amaziah, I was no prophet, neither was I a prophet's son; but I was an herdman, and a gatherer of sycomore fruit:

7:15    耶和華選召我，使我不跟從羊群，對我說，你去向我民以色列說預言。
And the LORD took me as I followed the flock, and the LORD said unto me, Go, prophesy unto my people Israel.

7:16    亞瑪謝阿，現在你要聽耶和華的話。你說，不要向以色列說預言，也不要向以撒家滴下預言。
Now therefore hear thou the word of the LORD: Thou sayest, Prophesy not against Israel, and drop not thy word against the house of Isaac.

7:17    所以耶和華如此說，你的妻子必在城中作妓女，你的兒女必倒在刀下，你的地必有人用繩子量了分取，你自己必死在汙穢之地，以色列民定被擄去離開本地。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Thy wife shall be an harlot in the city, and thy sons and thy daughters shall fall by the sword, and thy land shall be divided by line; and thou shalt die in a polluted land: and Israel shall surely go into captivity forth of his land.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


8:1    主耶和華又指示我一件事。我看見一筐夏天的果子。
Thus hath the Lord GOD shewed unto me: and behold a basket of summer fruit.

8:2    他說，阿摩司阿，你看見什麼。我說，看見一筐夏天的果子。耶和華說，我民以色列的結局到了。我必不再寬恕他們。
And he said, Amos, what seest thou? And I said, A basket of summer fruit. Then said the LORD unto me, The end is come upon my people of Israel; I will not again pass by them any more.

8:3    主耶和華說，那日，殿中的詩歌變為哀號。必有許多屍首在各處拋棄，無人作聲。
And the songs of the temple shall be howlings in that day, saith the Lord GOD: there shall be many dead bodies in every place; they shall cast them forth with silence.

8:4    你們這些要吞吃窮乏人，使困苦人衰敗的，當聽我的話。
Hear this, O ye that swallow up the needy, even to make the poor of the land to fail,

8:5    你們說，月朔幾時過去，我們好賣糧。安息日幾時過去，我們好擺開麥子，賣出用小升鬥，收銀用大戥子，用詭詐的天平欺哄人。
Saying, When will the new moon be gone, that we may sell corn? and the sabbath, that we may set forth wheat, making the ephah small, and the shekel great, and falsifying the balances by deceit?

8:6    好用銀子買貧寒人，用一雙鞋換窮乏人，將壞了的麥子賣給人。
That we may buy the poor for silver, and the needy for a pair of shoes; yea, and sell the refuse of the wheat?

8:7    耶和華指著雅各的榮耀起誓說，他們的一切行為，我必永遠不忘。
The LORD hath sworn by the excellency of Jacob, Surely I will never forget any of their works.

8:8    地豈不因這事震動，其上的居民，不也悲哀嗎。地必全然像尼羅河漲起，如同埃及河湧上落下。
Shall not the land tremble for this, and every one mourn that dwelleth therein? and it shall rise up wholly as a flood; and it shall be cast out and drowned, as by the flood of Egypt.

8:9    主耶和華說，到那日，我必使日頭在午間落下，使地在白晝黑暗。
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the Lord GOD, that I will cause the sun to go down at noon, and I will darken the earth in the clear day:

8:10    我必使你們的節期變為悲哀，歌曲變為哀歌。眾人腰束麻布，頭上光禿，使這場悲哀如喪獨生子，至終如痛苦的日子一樣。
And I will turn your feasts into mourning, and all your songs into lamentation; and I will bring up sackcloth upon all loins, and baldness upon every head; and I will make it as the mourning of an only son, and the end thereof as a bitter day.

8:11    主耶和華說，日子將到，我必命饑荒降在地上。人飢餓非因無餅，乾渴非因無水，乃因不聽耶和華的話。
Behold, the days come, saith the Lord GOD, that I will send a famine in the land, not a famine of bread, nor a thirst for water, but of hearing the words of the LORD:

8:12    他們必飄流，從這海到那海，從北邊到東邊，往來奔跑，尋求耶和華的話，卻尋不著。
And they shall wander from sea to sea, and from the north even to the east, they shall run to and fro to seek the word of the LORD, and shall not find it.

8:13    當那日，美貌的處女，和少年的男子，必因乾渴發昏。
In that day shall the fair virgins and young men faint for thirst.

8:14    那指著撒瑪利亞牛犢（原文作罪）起誓的說，但哪，我們指著你那裡的活神起誓。又說，我們指著別是巴的神道（神原文作活）起誓。這些人都必仆倒，永不再起來。
They that swear by the sin of Samaria, and say, Thy god, O Dan, liveth; and, The manner of Beersheba liveth; even they shall fall, and never rise up again.




舊約 -- 阿摩司書(Amos) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 9 章 )    　


9:1    我看見主站在祭壇旁邊。他說，你要擊打柱頂，使門檻震動，打碎柱頂，落在眾人頭上。所剩下的人，我必用刀殺戮。無一人能逃避，無一人能逃脫。
I saw the LORD standing upon the altar: and he said, Smite the lintel of the door, that the posts may shake: and cut them in the head, all of them; and I will slay the last of them with the sword: he that fleeth of them shall not flee away, and he that escapeth of them shall not be delivered.

9:2    他們雖然挖透陰間，我的手必取出他們來。雖然爬上天去，我必拿下他們來。
Though they dig into hell, thence shall mine hand take them; though they climb up to heaven, thence will I bring them down:

9:3    雖然藏在迦密山頂，我必搜尋，捉出他們來。雖然從我眼前藏在海底，我必命蛇咬他們。
And though they hide themselves in the top of Carmel, I will search and take them out thence; and though they be hid from my sight in the bottom of the sea, thence will I command the serpent, and he shall bite them:

9:4    雖被仇敵擄去，我必命刀劍殺戮他們。我必向他們定住眼目。降禍不降福。
And though they go into captivity before their enemies, thence will I command the sword, and it shall slay them: and I will set mine eyes upon them for evil, and not for good.

9:5    主萬軍之耶和華摸地，地就消化，凡住在地上的，都必悲哀。地必全然像尼羅河漲起，如同埃及河落下。
And the Lord GOD of hosts is he that toucheth the land, and it shall melt, and all that dwell therein shall mourn: and it shall rise up wholly like a flood; and shall be drowned, as by the flood of Egypt.

9:6    那在天上建造樓閣，在地上安定穹蒼，命海水澆在地上的，耶和華是他的名。
It is he that buildeth his stories in the heaven, and hath founded his troop in the earth; he that calleth for the waters of the sea, and poureth them out upon the face of the earth: The LORD is his name.

9:7    耶和華說，以色列人哪，我豈不看你們如古實人嗎。我豈不是領以色列人出埃及地，領非利士人出迦斐託，領亞蘭人出吉珥嗎。
Are ye not as children of the Ethiopians unto me, O children of Israel? saith the LORD. Have not I brought up Israel out of the land of Egypt? and the Philistines from Caphtor, and the Syrians from Kir?

9:8    主耶和華的眼目察看這有罪的國。必將這國從地上滅絕，卻不將雅各家滅絕淨盡。這是耶和華說的。
Behold, the eyes of the Lord GOD are upon the sinful kingdom, and I will destroy it from off the face of the earth; saving that I will not utterly destroy the house of Jacob, saith the LORD.

9:9    我必出令，將以色列家分散在列國中，好像用篩子篩谷，連一粒也不落在地上。
For, lo, I will command, and I will sift the house of Israel among all nations, like as corn is sifted in a sieve, yet shall not the least grain fall upon the earth.

9:10    我民中的一切罪人說，災禍必追不上我們，也迎不著我們。他們必死在刀下。
All the sinners of my people shall die by the sword, which say, The evil shall not overtake nor prevent us.

9:11    到那日，我必建立大衛倒塌的帳幕，堵住其中的破口，把那破壞的建立起來，重新修造，像古時一樣。
In that day will I raise up the tabernacle of David that is fallen, and close up the breaches thereof; and I will raise up his ruins, and I will build it as in the days of old:

9:12    使以色列人得以東所餘剩的，和所有稱為我名下的國。此乃行這事的耶和華說的。
That they may possess the remnant of Edom, and of all the heathen, which are called by my name, saith the LORD that doeth this.

9:13    耶和華說，日子將到，耕種的必接續收割的，踹葡萄的必接續撒種的。大山要滴下甜酒，小山都必流奶（原文作消化，見珥03：18）。
Behold, the days come, saith the LORD, that the plowman shall overtake the reaper, and the treader of grapes him that soweth seed; and the mountains shall drop sweet wine, and all the hills shall melt.

9:14    我必使我民以色列被擄的歸回，他們必重修荒廢的城邑居住，栽種葡萄園，喝其中所出的酒；修造果木園，吃其中的果子。
And I will bring again the captivity of my people of Israel, and they shall build the waste cities, and inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, and drink the wine thereof; they shall also make gardens, and eat the fruit of them.

9:15    我要將他們栽於本地，他們不再從我所賜給他們的拔出來。這是耶和華說的。
And I will plant them upon their land, and they shall no more be pulled up out of their land which I have given them, saith the LORD thy God.




