
舊約 -- 俄巴底亞書(Obadiah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 1 章 )    　


1:1    俄巴底亞得了耶和華的默示。論以東，說，我從耶和華那裡聽見資訊，並有使者被差往列國去，說，起來把，一同起來與以東爭戰。
The vision of Obadiah. Thus saith the Lord GOD concerning Edom; We have heard a rumour from the LORD, and an ambassador is sent among the heathen, Arise ye, and let us rise up against her in battle.

1:2    我使你以東在列國中為最小的，被人大大藐視。
Behold, I have made thee small among the heathen: thou art greatly despised.

1:3    住在山穴中，居所在高處的阿，你因狂傲自欺，心裡說，誰能將我拉下地去呢。
The pride of thine heart hath deceived thee, thou that dwellest in the clefts of the rock, whose habitation is high; that saith in his heart, Who shall bring me down to the ground?

1:4    你雖如大鷹高飛，在星宿之間搭窩，我必從那裡拉下你來。這是耶和華說的。
Though thou exalt thyself as the eagle, and though thou set thy nest among the stars, thence will I bring thee down, saith the LORD.

1:5    盜賊若來在你那裡，或強盜夜間而來，（你何竟被剪除）豈不偷竊直到夠了呢。摘葡萄的若來到你那裡，豈不剩下些葡萄呢。
If thieves came to thee, if robbers by night, (how art thou cut off!) would they not have stolen till they had enough? if the grapegatherers came to thee, would they not leave some grapes?

1:6    以掃的隱密處，何竟被搜尋。他隱藏的寶物何竟被查出。
How are the things of Esau searched out! how are his hidden things sought up!

1:7    與你結盟的，都送你上路，直到交界。與你和好的，欺騙你，且勝過你。與你一同吃飯的，設下網羅陷害你。在你心裡毫無聰明。
All the men of thy confederacy have brought thee even to the border: the men that were at peace with thee have deceived thee, and prevailed against thee; they that eat thy bread have laid a wound under thee: there is none understanding in him.

1:8    耶和華說，到那日，我豈不從以東除滅智慧人，從以掃山除滅聰明人。
Shall I not in that day, saith the LORD, even destroy the wise men out of Edom, and understanding out of the mount of Esau?

1:9    毯螅哪，你的勇士必驚惶，甚至以掃山的人，都被殺戮剪除。
And thy mighty men, O Teman, shall be dismayed, to the end that every one of the mount of Esau may be cut off by slaughter.

1:10    因你向兄弟雅各行強暴，羞愧必遮蓋你，你也必永遠斷絕。
For thy violence against thy brother Jacob shame shall cover thee, and thou shalt be cut off for ever.

1:11    當外人擄掠雅各的財物，外邦人進入他的城門，為耶路撒冷拈鬮的日子，你竟站在一旁，像與他們同夥。
In the day that thou stoodest on the other side, in the day that the strangers carried away captive his forces, and foreigners entered into his gates, and cast lots upon Jerusalem, even thou wast as one of them.

1:12    你兄弟遭難的日子，你不當瞪眼看著，猶大人被滅的日子，你不當因此歡樂。他們遭難的日子，你不當說狂傲的話。
But thou shouldest not have looked on the day of thy brother in the day that he became a stranger; neither shouldest thou have rejoiced over the children of Judah in the day of their destruction; neither shouldest thou have spoken proudly in the day of distress.

1:13    我民遭災的日子，你不當進他們的城門。他們遭災的日子，你不當瞪眼看著他們受苦。他們遭災的日子，你不當伸手搶他們的財物。
Thou shouldest not have entered into the gate of my people in the day of their calamity; yea, thou shouldest not have looked on their affliction in the day of their calamity, nor have laid hands on their substance in the day of their calamity;

1:14    你不當站在岔路口，剪除他們中間逃脫的。他們遭難的日子，你不當將他們剩下的人交付仇敵。
Neither shouldest thou have stood in the crossway, to cut off those of his that did escape; neither shouldest thou have delivered up those of his that did remain in the day of distress.

1:15    耶和華降罰的日子臨近萬國。你怎樣行，他也必照樣向你行。你的報應必歸到你頭上。
For the day of the LORD is near upon all the heathen: as thou hast done, it shall be done unto thee: thy reward shall return upon thine own head.

1:16    你們猶大人在我聖山怎樣喝了苦杯，萬國也必照樣常常地喝。且喝且咽，他們就歸於無有。
For as ye have drunk upon my holy mountain, so shall all the heathen drink continually, yea, they shall drink, and they shall swallow down, and they shall be as though they had not been.

1:17    在錫安山必有逃脫的人，那山也必成聖。雅各家必得原有的產業。
But upon mount Zion shall be deliverance, and there shall be holiness; and the house of Jacob shall possess their possessions.

1:18    雅各家必成為大火，約瑟家必為火焰，以掃家必如碎秸，火必將他燒著吞滅。以掃家必無餘剩的。這是耶和華說的。
And the house of Jacob shall be a fire, and the house of Joseph a flame, and the house of Esau for stubble, and they shall kindle in them, and devour them; and there shall not be any remaining of the house of Esau; for the LORD hath spoken it.

1:19    南地的人必得以掃山，高原的人必得非利士地，也得以法蓮地，和撒瑪利亞地，便雅憫人必得基列。
And they of the south shall possess the mount of Esau; and they of the plain the Philistines: and they shall possess the fields of Ephraim, and the fields of Samaria: and Benjamin shall possess Gilead.

1:20    在迦南人中被擄的以色列眾人，必得地直到撒勒法。在西法拉中被擄的耶路撒冷人，必得南地的城邑。
And the captivity of this host of the children of Israel shall possess that of the Canaanites, even unto Zarephath; and the captivity of Jerusalem, which is in Sepharad, shall possess the cities of the south.

1:21    必有拯救者上到錫安山，審判以掃山，國度就歸耶和華了。
And saviours shall come up on mount Zion to judge the mount of Esau; and the kingdom shall be the LORD's.



