


舊約 -- 約拿書(Jonah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


1:1    耶和華的話臨到亞米太的兒子約拿，說，
Now the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the son of Amittai, saying,

1:2    你起來往尼尼微大城去，向其中的居民呼喊。因為他們的惡達到我面前。
Arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, and cry against it; for their wickedness is come up before me.

1:3    約拿卻起來，逃往他施去躲避耶和華。下到約帕，遇見一隻船，要往他施去。他就給了船價，上了船，要與船上的人同往他施去躲避耶和華。
But Jonah rose up to flee unto Tarshish from the presence of the LORD, and went down to Joppa; and he found a ship going to Tarshish: so he paid the fare thereof, and went down into it, to go with them unto Tarshish from the presence of the LORD.

1:4    然而耶和華使海中起大風，海就狂風大作，甚至船幾乎破壞。
But the LORD sent out a great wind into the sea, and there was a mighty tempest in the sea, so that the ship was like to be broken.

1:5    水手便懼怕，各人哀求自己的神。他們將船上的貨物拋在海中，為要使船輕些。約拿已下到底艙，躺臥沉睡。
Then the mariners were afraid, and cried every man unto his god, and cast forth the wares that were in the ship into the sea, to lighten it of them. But Jonah was gone down into the sides of the ship; and he lay, and was fast asleep.

1:6    船主到他那裡對他說，你這沉睡的人哪，為何這樣呢。起來，求告你的神，或者神顧念我們，使我們不致滅亡。
So the shipmaster came to him, and said unto him, What meanest thou, O sleeper? arise, call upon thy God, if so be that God will think upon us, that we perish not.

1:7    船上的人彼此說，來吧，我們掣籤，看看這災臨到我們是因誰的緣故。於是他們掣籤，掣出約拿來。
And they said every one to his fellow, Come, and let us cast lots, that we may know for whose cause this evil is upon us. So they cast lots, and the lot fell upon Jonah.



1:8    眾人對他說，請你告訴我們，這災臨到我們是因誰的緣故。你以何事為業。你從哪裡來。你是哪一國，屬哪一族的人。
Then said they unto him, Tell us, we pray thee, for whose cause this evil is upon us; What is thine occupation? and whence comest thou? what is thy country? and of what people art thou?

1:9    他說，我是希伯來人。我敬畏耶和華，那創造滄海旱地之天上的神。
And he said unto them, I am an Hebrew; and I fear the LORD, the God of heaven, which hath made the sea and the dry land.

1:10    他們就大大懼怕，對他說，你做的是什麼事呢。他們已經知道他躲避耶和華，因為他告訴了他們。
Then were the men exceedingly afraid, and said unto him, Why hast thou done this? For the men knew that he fled from the presence of the LORD, because he had told them.

1:11    他們問他說，我們當向你怎樣行，使海浪平靜呢。這話是因海浪越發翻騰。
Then said they unto him, What shall we do unto thee, that the sea may be calm unto us? for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous.

1:12    他對他們說，你們將我抬起來，拋在海中，海就平靜了。我知道你們遭這大風，是因我的緣故。
And he said unto them, Take me up, and cast me forth into the sea; so shall the sea be calm unto you: for I know that for my sake this great tempest is upon you.

1:13    然而那些人竭力蕩槳，要把船攏岸，卻是不能。因為海浪越發向他們翻騰。
Nevertheless the men rowed hard to bring it to the land; but they could not: for the sea wrought, and was tempestuous against them.

1:14    他們便求告耶和華說，耶和華阿，我們懇求你，不要因這人的性命使我們死亡，不要使流無辜血的罪歸與我們。因為你耶和華是隨自己的意旨行事。
Wherefore they cried unto the LORD, and said, We beseech thee, O LORD, we beseech thee, let us not perish for this man's life, and lay not upon us innocent blood: for thou, O LORD, hast done as it pleased thee.

1:15    他們遂將約拿抬起，拋在海中，海的狂浪就平息了。
So they took up Jonah, and cast him forth into the sea: and the sea ceased from her raging.

1:16    那些人便大大敬畏耶和華，向耶和華獻祭，並且許願。
Then the men feared the LORD exceedingly, and offered a sacrifice unto the LORD, and made vows.

1:17    耶和華安排一條大魚吞了約拿，他在魚腹中三日三夜。
Now the LORD had prepared a great fish to swallow up Jonah. And Jonah was in the belly of the fish three days and three nights.




舊約 -- 約拿書(Jonah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


2:1    約拿在魚腹中禱告耶和華他的神，
Then Jonah prayed unto the LORD his God out of the fish's belly,

2:2    說，我遭遇患難求告耶和華，你就應允我。從陰間的深處呼求，你就俯聽我的聲音。
And said, I cried by reason of mine affliction unto the LORD, and he heard me; out of the belly of hell cried I, and thou heardest my voice.

2:3    你將我投下深淵，就是海的深處。大水環繞我。你的波浪洪濤都漫過我身。
For thou hadst cast me into the deep, in the midst of the seas; and the floods compassed me about: all thy billows and thy waves passed over me.

2:4    我說，我從你眼前雖被驅逐，我仍要仰望你的聖殿。
Then I said, I am cast out of thy sight; yet I will look again toward thy holy temple.

2:5    諸水環繞我，幾乎淹沒我。深淵圍住我，海草纏繞我的頭。
The waters compassed me about, even to the soul: the depth closed me round about, the weeds were wrapped about my head.

2:6    我下到山根。地的門將我永遠關住。耶和華我的神阿，你卻將我的性命，從坑中救出來。
I went down to the bottoms of the mountains; the earth with her bars was about me for ever: yet hast thou brought up my life from corruption, O LORD my God.

2:7    我心在我裡面發昏的時候，我就想念耶和華。我的禱告進入你的聖殿，達到你的面前。
When my soul fainted within me I remembered the LORD: and my prayer came in unto thee, into thine holy temple.

2:8    那信奉虛無之神的人，離棄憐愛他們的主。
They that observe lying vanities forsake their own mercy.

2:9    但我必用感謝的聲音獻祭與你。我所許的願，我必償還。救恩出於耶和華。
But I will sacrifice unto thee with the voice of thanksgiving; I will pay that that I have vowed. Salvation is of the LORD.

2:10    耶和華吩咐魚，魚就把約拿吐在旱地上。
And the LORD spake unto the fish, and it vomited out Jonah upon the dry land.




舊約 -- 約拿書(Jonah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


3:1    耶和華的話，第二次臨到約拿說，
And the word of the LORD came unto Jonah the second time, saying,

3:2    你起來，往尼尼微大城去，向其中的居民宣告我所吩咐你的話。
Arise, go unto Nineveh, that great city, and preach unto it the preaching that I bid thee.

3:3    約拿便照耶和華的話起來，往尼尼微去。這尼尼微是極大的城，有三日的路程。
So Jonah arose, and went unto Nineveh, according to the word of the LORD. Now Nineveh was an exceeding great city of three days' journey.

3:4    約拿進城走了一日，宣告說，再等四十日，尼尼微必傾覆了。
And Jonah began to enter into the city a day's journey, and he cried, and said, Yet forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown.

3:5    尼尼微人信服神，便宣告禁食，從最大的到至小的，都穿麻衣（或作披上麻布）。
So the people of Nineveh believed God, and proclaimed a fast, and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them even to the least of them.

3:6    這資訊傳到尼尼微王的耳中，他就下了寶座，脫下朝服，披上麻布，坐在灰中。
For word came unto the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, and he laid his robe from him, and covered him with sackcloth, and sat in ashes.

3:7    他又使人遍告尼尼微通城，說，王和大臣有令，人不可嘗什麼，牲畜，牛羊不可吃草，也不可喝水。
And he caused it to be proclaimed and published through Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, saying, Let neither man nor beast, herd nor flock, taste any thing: let them not feed, nor drink water:

3:8    人與牲畜都當披上麻布，人要切切求告神。各人回頭離開所行的惡道，丟棄手中的強暴。
But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and cry mightily unto God: yea, let them turn every one from his evil way, and from the violence that is in their hands.

3:9    或者神轉意後悔，不發烈怒，使我們不致滅亡，也未可知。
Who can tell if God will turn and repent, and turn away from his fierce anger, that we perish not?

3:10    於是神察看他們的行為，見他們離開惡道，他就後悔，不把所說的災禍降與他們了。
And God saw their works, that they turned from their evil way; and God repented of the evil, that he had said that he would do unto them; and he did it not.




舊約 -- 約拿書(Jonah) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


4:1    這事約拿大大不悅，且甚發怒。
But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was very angry.

4:2    就禱告耶和華說，耶和華阿，我在本國的時候，豈不是這樣說嗎。我知道你是有恩典，有憐憫的神，不輕易發怒，有豐盛的慈愛，並且後悔不降所說的災，所以我急速逃往他施去。
And he prayed unto the LORD, and said, I pray thee, O LORD, was not this my saying, when I was yet in my country? Therefore I fled before unto Tarshish: for I knew that thou art a gracious God, and merciful, slow to anger, and of great kindness, and repentest thee of the evil.

4:3    耶和華阿，現在求你取我的命吧。因為我死了比活著還好。
Therefore now, O LORD, take, I beseech thee, my life from me; for it is better for me to die than to live.

4:4    耶和華說，你這樣發怒合乎理嗎。
Then said the LORD, Doest thou well to be angry?

4:5    於是約拿出城，坐在城的東邊，在那裡為自己搭了一座棚，坐在棚的蔭下，要看看那城究竟如何。
So Jonah went out of the city, and sat on the east side of the city, and there made him a booth, and sat under it in the shadow, till he might see what would become of the city.

4:6    耶和華神安排一棵蓖麻，使其發生高過約拿，影兒遮蓋他的頭，救他脫離苦楚。約拿因這棵蓖麻大大喜樂。
And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from his grief. So Jonah was exceeding glad of the gourd.

4:7    次日黎明，神卻安排一條蟲子咬這蓖麻，以致枯槁。
But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd that it withered.

4:8    日頭出來的時候，神安排炎熱的東風。日頭曝晒約拿的頭，使他發昏，他就為自己求死，說，我死了比活著還好。
And it came to pass, when the sun did arise, that God prepared a vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and wished in himself to die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live.

4:9    神對約拿說，你因這棵蓖麻發怒合乎理嗎。他說，我發怒以至於死合乎理。
And God said to Jonah, Doest thou well to be angry for the gourd? And he said, I do well to be angry, even unto death.

4:10    耶和華說，這蓖麻不是你栽種的，也不是你培養的。一夜發生，一夜乾死，你尚且愛惜。
Then said the LORD, Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for the which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it grow; which came up in a night, and perished in a night:

4:11    何況這尼尼微大城，其中不能分辨左手右手的有十二萬多人，並有許多牲畜。我豈能不愛惜呢。
And should not I spare Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand; and also much cattle?



