

舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


1:1    當猶大王約坦，亞哈斯，希西家在位的時候，摩利沙人彌迦得耶和華的默示，論撒瑪利亞和耶路撒冷。
The word of the LORD that came to Micah the Morasthite in the days of Jotham, Ahaz, and Hezekiah, kings of Judah, which he saw concerning Samaria and Jerusalem.

1:2    萬民哪，你們都要聽。地和其上所有的，也都要側耳而聽。主耶和華從他的聖殿，要見證你們的不是。
Hear, all ye people; hearken, O earth, and all that therein is: and let the Lord GOD be witness against you, the LORD from his holy temple.

1:3    看哪，耶和華出了他的居所，降臨步行地的高處。
For, behold, the LORD cometh forth out of his place, and will come down, and tread upon the high places of the earth.

1:4    眾山在他以下必消化，諸谷必崩裂，如臘化在火中，如水衝下山坡。
And the mountains shall be molten under him, and the valleys shall be cleft, as wax before the fire, and as the waters that are poured down a steep place.

1:5    這都因雅各的罪過，以色列家的罪惡。雅各的罪過在哪裡呢。豈不是在撒瑪利亞嗎。猶大的邱壇在哪裡呢，豈不是在耶路撒冷嗎。
For the transgression of Jacob is all this, and for the sins of the house of Israel. What is the transgression of Jacob? is it not Samaria? and what are the high places of Judah? are they not Jerusalem?

1:6    所以，我必使撒瑪利亞變為田野的亂堆，又作為種葡萄之處。也必將她的石頭倒在谷中，露出根基來。
Therefore I will make Samaria as an heap of the field, and as plantings of a vineyard: and I will pour down the stones thereof into the valley, and I will discover the foundations thereof.

1:7    她一切雕刻的偶像必被打碎，她所得的財物必被火燒，所有的偶像我必毀滅。因為是從妓女僱價所聚來的，後必歸為妓女的僱價。
And all the graven images thereof shall be beaten to pieces, and all the hires thereof shall be burned with the fire, and all the idols thereof will I lay desolate: for she gathered it of the hire of an harlot, and they shall return to the hire of an harlot.

1:8    先知說，因此我必大聲哀號，赤腳露體而行。又要呼號如野狗，哀嗚如鴕鳥。
Therefore I will wail and howl, I will go stripped and naked: I will make a wailing like the dragons, and mourning as the owls.

1:9    因為撒瑪利亞的傷痕無法醫治，延及猶大和耶路撒冷我民的城門。
For her wound is incurable; for it is come unto Judah; he is come unto the gate of my people, even to Jerusalem.

1:10    不要在迦特報告這事，總不要哭泣。我在伯亞弗拉輥於灰塵之中。
Declare ye it not at Gath, weep ye not at all: in the house of Aphrah roll thyself in the dust.

1:11    沙斐的居民哪，你們要赤身蒙羞過去。撒南的居民不敢出來。伯以薛人的哀哭，使你們無處可站。
Pass ye away, thou inhabitant of Saphir, having thy shame naked: the inhabitant of Zaanan came not forth in the mourning of Bethezel; he shall receive of you his standing.

1:12    瑪律的居民心甚憂急，切望得好處，因為災禍從耶和華那裡臨到耶路撒冷的城門。
For the inhabitant of Maroth waited carefully for good: but evil came down from the LORD unto the gate of Jerusalem.

1:13    拉吉的居民哪，要用快馬套車。錫安民（民原文作女子）的罪由你而起。以色列人的罪過在你那裡顯出。
O thou inhabitant of Lachish, bind the chariot to the swift beast: she is the beginning of the sin to the daughter of Zion: for the transgressions of Israel were found in thee.

1:14    猶大阿，你要將禮物送給摩利設迦特。亞革悉的眾族，必用詭詐待以色列諸王。
Therefore shalt thou give presents to Moreshethgath: the houses of Achzib shall be a lie to the kings of Israel.

1:15    瑪利沙的居民哪，我必使那奪取你的來到你這裡。以色列的尊貴人（原文作榮耀）必到亞杜蘭。
Yet will I bring an heir unto thee, O inhabitant of Mareshah: he shall come unto Adullam the glory of Israel.

1:16    猶大阿，要為你所喜愛的兒女剪除你的頭髮，使頭光禿。要大大地光禿，如同禿鷹。因為他們都被擄去離開你。
Make thee bald, and poll thee for thy delicate children; enlarge thy baldness as the eagle; for they are gone into captivity from thee.




舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


2:1    禍哉，那些在床上圖謀罪孽，造作奸惡的。天一發亮，因手有能力就行出來了。
Woe to them that devise iniquity, and work evil upon their beds! when the morning is light, they practise it, because it is in the power of their hand.

2:2    他們貪圖田地就佔據。貪圖房屋便奪取。他們欺壓人，霸佔房屋和產業。
And they covet fields, and take them by violence; and houses, and take them away: so they oppress a man and his house, even a man and his heritage.

2:3    所以耶和華如此說，我籌劃災禍降與這族，這禍在你們的頸項上不能解脫，你們也不能昂首而行。因為這時勢是惡的。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; Behold, against this family do I devise an evil, from which ye shall not remove your necks; neither shall ye go haughtily: for this time is evil.

2:4    到那日，必有人向你們提起悲慘的哀歌，譏刺說，我們全然敗落了。耶和華將我們的分轉歸別人。何竟使這分離開我們。他將我們的田地分給悖逆的人。
In that day shall one take up a parable against you, and lament with a doleful lamentation, and say, We be utterly spoiled: he hath changed the portion of my people: how hath he removed it from me! turning away he hath divided our fields.

2:5    所以，在耶和華的會中，你必沒有人拈鬮拉準繩。
Therefore thou shalt have none that shall cast a cord by lot in the congregation of the LORD.

2:6    他們（或作假先知）說，你們不可說預言，不可向這些人說預言，不住地羞辱我們。
Prophesy ye not, say they to them that prophesy: they shall not prophesy to them, that they shall not take shame.

2:7    雅各家阿，豈可說耶和華的心不忍耐嗎（或作心腸狹窄嗎）。這些事是他所行的嗎。我耶和華的言語，豈不是與行動正直的人有益嗎。
O thou that art named the house of Jacob, is the spirit of the LORD straitened? are these his doings? do not my words do good to him that walketh uprightly?

2:8    然而，近來我的民興起如仇敵，從那些安然經過不願打仗之人身上剝去外衣。
Even of late my people is risen up as an enemy: ye pull off the robe with the garment from them that pass by securely as men averse from war.

2:9    你們將我民中的婦人從安樂家中趕出，又將我的榮耀從她們的小孩子盡行奪去。
The women of my people have ye cast out from their pleasant houses; from their children have ye taken away my glory for ever.

2:10    你們起來去吧。這不是你們安息之所。因為汙穢使人（或作地）毀滅，而且大大毀滅。
Arise ye, and depart; for this is not your rest: because it is polluted, it shall destroy you, even with a sore destruction.

2:11    若有人心存虛假，用謊言說，我要向你們預言得清酒和濃酒。那人就必作這民的先知。
If a man walking in the spirit and falsehood do lie, saying, I will prophesy unto thee of wine and of strong drink; he shall even be the prophet of this people.

2:12    雅各家阿，我必要聚集你們，必要招聚以色列剩下的人，安置在一處，如波斯拉的羊，又如草場上的羊群。因為人數眾多就必大大喧譁。
I will surely assemble, O Jacob, all of thee; I will surely gather the remnant of Israel; I will put them together as the sheep of Bozrah, as the flock in the midst of their fold: they shall make great noise by reason of the multitude of men.

2:13    開路的（或作破城的）在他們前面上去。他們直闖過城門，從城門出去。他們的王在前面行，耶和華引導他們。
The breaker is come up before them: they have broken up, and have passed through the gate, and are gone out by it: and their king shall pass before them, and the LORD on the head of them.




舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


3:1    我說，雅各的首領，以色列家的官長阿，你們要聽。你們不當知道公平嗎。
And I said, Hear, I pray you, O heads of Jacob, and ye princes of the house of Israel; Is it not for you to know judgment?

3:2    你們惡善好惡。從人身上剝皮，從人骨頭上剔肉。
Who hate the good, and love the evil; who pluck off their skin from off them, and their flesh from off their bones;

3:3    吃我民的肉，剝他們的皮，打折他們的骨頭，分成塊子像要下鍋，又像釜中的肉。
Who also eat the flesh of my people, and flay their skin from off them; and they break their bones, and chop them in pieces, as for the pot, and as flesh within the caldron.

3:4    到了遭災的時候，這些人必哀求耶和華，他卻不應允他們。那時他必照他們所行的惡事，向他們掩面。
Then shall they cry unto the LORD, but he will not hear them: he will even hide his face from them at that time, as they have behaved themselves ill in their doings.

3:5    論到使我民走差路的先知，他們牙齒有所嚼的，他們就呼喊說，平安了。凡不供給他們吃的，他們就預備攻擊他（預備攻擊他或作說必遭遇刀兵）耶和華如此說，
Thus saith the LORD concerning the prophets that make my people err, that bite with their teeth, and cry, Peace; and he that putteth not into their mouths, they even prepare war against him.

3:6    你們必遭遇黑夜，以致不見異象。又必遭遇幽暗，以致不能占卜。日頭必向你們沉落，白晝變為黑暗。
Therefore night shall be unto you, that ye shall not have a vision; and it shall be dark unto you, that ye shall not divine; and the sun shall go down over the prophets, and the day shall be dark over them.

3:7    先見必抱愧，占卜的必蒙羞，都必捂著嘴脣，因為神不應允他們。
Then shall the seers be ashamed, and the diviners confounded: yea, they shall all cover their lips; for there is no answer of God.



3:8    至於我，我藉耶和華的靈，滿有力量公平才能，可以向雅各說明他的過犯，向以色列指出他的罪惡。
But truly I am full of power by the spirit of the LORD, and of judgment, and of might, to declare unto Jacob his transgression, and to Israel his sin.

3:9    雅各家的首領，以色列家的官長阿，當聽我的話。你們厭惡公平，在一切事上屈枉正直。
Hear this, I pray you, ye heads of the house of Jacob, and princes of the house of Israel, that abhor judgment, and pervert all equity.

3:10    以人血建立錫安，以罪孽建造耶路撒冷。
They build up Zion with blood, and Jerusalem with iniquity.

3:11    首領為賄賂行審判，祭司為僱價施訓誨，先知為銀錢行占卜。他們卻倚賴耶和華，說，耶和華不是在我們中間嗎。災禍必不臨到我們。
The heads thereof judge for reward, and the priests thereof teach for hire, and the prophets thereof divine for money: yet will they lean upon the LORD, and say, Is not the LORD among us? none evil can come upon us.

3:12    所以因你們的緣故，錫安必被耕種像一塊田，耶路撒冷必變為亂堆，這殿的山必像叢林的高處。
Therefore shall Zion for your sake be plowed as a field, and Jerusalem shall become heaps, and the mountain of the house as the high places of the forest.




舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


4:1    末後的日子，耶和華殿的山必堅立，超乎諸山，高舉過於萬嶺。萬民都要流歸這山。
But in the last days it shall come to pass, that the mountain of the house of the LORD shall be established in the top of the mountains, and it shall be exalted above the hills; and people shall flow unto it.

4:2    必有許多國的民前往，說，來吧，我們登耶和華的山，奔雅各神的殿。主必將他的道教訓我們，我們也要行他的路。因為訓誨必出於錫安，耶和華的言語必出於耶路撒冷。
And many nations shall come, and say, Come, and let us go up to the mountain of the LORD, and to the house of the God of Jacob; and he will teach us of his ways, and we will walk in his paths: for the law shall go forth of Zion, and the word of the LORD from Jerusalem.

4:3    他必在多國的民中施行審判，為遠方強盛的國斷定是非。他們要將刀打成犁頭，把槍打成鐮刀。這國不舉刀攻擊那國，他們也不再學習山事。
And he shall judge among many people, and rebuke strong nations afar off; and they shall beat their swords into plowshares, and their spears into pruninghooks: nation shall not lift up a sword against nation, neither shall they learn war any more.

4:4    人人都要坐在自己葡萄樹下和無花果樹下，無人驚嚇。這是萬軍之耶和華親口說的。
But they shall sit every man under his vine and under his fig tree; and none shall make them afraid: for the mouth of the LORD of hosts hath spoken it.

4:5    萬民各奉己神的名而行。我們卻永永遠遠奉耶和華我們神的名而行。
For all people will walk every one in the name of his god, and we will walk in the name of the LORD our God for ever and ever.

4:6    耶和華說，到那日，我必聚集瘸腿的，招聚被趕出的，和我所懲治的。
In that day, saith the LORD, will I assemble her that halteth, and I will gather her that is driven out, and her that I have afflicted;

4:7    我必使瘸腿的為餘剩之民，使趕到遠方的為強盛之民。耶和華要在錫安山作王治理他們，從今直到永遠。
And I will make her that halted a remnant, and her that was cast far off a strong nation: and the LORD shall reign over them in mount Zion from henceforth, even for ever.

4:8    你這羊群的高臺，錫安城（城原文作女子）的山哪，從前的權柄，就是耶路撒冷民（民原文作女子）的國權，必歸與你。
And thou, O tower of the flock, the strong hold of the daughter of Zion, unto thee shall it come, even the first dominion; the kingdom shall come to the daughter of Jerusalem.

4:9    現在你為何大聲哭號呢。疼痛抓住你彷佛產難的婦人。是因你中間沒有君王嗎。你的謀士滅亡了嗎。
Now why dost thou cry out aloud? is there no king in thee? is thy counsellor perished? for pangs have taken thee as a woman in travail.

4:10    錫安的民（民原文作女子）哪，你要疼痛劬勞，彷佛產難的婦人。因為你必從城裡出來，住在田野，到巴比倫去。在那裡要蒙解救，在那裡耶和華必救贖你脫離仇敵的手。
Be in pain, and labour to bring forth, O daughter of Zion, like a woman in travail: for now shalt thou go forth out of the city, and thou shalt dwell in the field, and thou shalt go even to Babylon; there shalt thou be delivered; there the LORD shall redeem thee from the hand of thine enemies.

4:11    現在有許多國的民聚集攻擊你，說，願錫安被玷汙，願我們親眼見她遭報。
Now also many nations are gathered against thee, that say, Let her be defiled, and let our eye look upon Zion.

4:12    他們卻不知道耶和華的意念，也不明白他的籌劃。他聚集他們，好像把禾捆聚到禾場一樣。
But they know not the thoughts of the LORD, neither understand they his counsel: for he shall gather them as the sheaves into the floor.

4:13    錫安的民（民原文作女子）哪，起來踹谷吧。我必使你的角成為鐵，使你的蹄成為銅。你必打碎多國的民。將他們的財獻與耶和華，將他們的貨獻與普天下的主。
Arise and thresh, O daughter of Zion: for I will make thine horn iron, and I will make thy hoofs brass: and thou shalt beat in pieces many people: and I will consecrate their gain unto the LORD, and their substance unto the Lord of the whole earth.




舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


5:1    成群的民（民原文作女子）哪，現在你要聚整合隊。因為仇敵圍攻我們，要用杖擊打以色列審判者的臉。
Now gather thyself in troops, O daughter of troops: he hath laid siege against us: they shall smite the judge of Israel with a rod upon the cheek.

5:2    伯利恆，以法他阿，你在猶大諸城中為小。將來必有一位從你那裡出來，在以色列中為我作掌權的。他的根源從亙古，從太初就有。
But thou, Bethlehem Ephratah, though thou be little among the thousands of Judah, yet out of thee shall he come forth unto me that is to be ruler in Israel; whose goings forth have been from of old, from everlasting.

5:3    耶和華必將以色列人交付敵人，直等那生產的婦人生下子來。那時掌權者（原文作他）其餘的弟兄必歸到以色列人那裡。
Therefore will he give them up, until the time that she which travaileth hath brought forth: then the remnant of his brethren shall return unto the children of Israel.

5:4    他必起來，倚靠耶和華的大能，並耶和華他神之名的威嚴，牧養他的羊群。他們要安然居住。因為他必日見尊大，直到地極。
And he shall stand and feed in the strength of the LORD, in the majesty of the name of the LORD his God; and they shall abide: for now shall he be great unto the ends of the earth.

5:5    這位必作我們的平安。當亞述人進入我們的地境，踐踏宮殿的時候，我們就立起七個牧者，八個首領攻擊他。
And this man shall be the peace, when the Assyrian shall come into our land: and when he shall tread in our palaces, then shall we raise against him seven shepherds, and eight principal men.

5:6    他們必用刀劍毀壞亞述地，和寧錄地的關口。亞述人進入我們的地境，踐踏的時候，他必拯救我們。
And they shall waste the land of Assyria with the sword, and the land of Nimrod in the entrances thereof: thus shall he deliver us from the Assyrian, when he cometh into our land, and when he treadeth within our borders.

5:7    雅各餘剩的人必在多國的民中，如從耶和華那裡降下的露水，又如甘霖降在草上。不仗賴人力，也不等候世人之功。
And the remnant of Jacob shall be in the midst of many people as a dew from the LORD, as the showers upon the grass, that tarrieth not for man, nor waiteth for the sons of men.

5:8    雅各餘剩的人必在多國多民中，如林間百獸中的獅子，又如少壯獅子在羊群中。他若經過，就必踐踏撕裂，無人搭救。
And the remnant of Jacob shall be among the Gentiles in the midst of many people as a lion among the beasts of the forest, as a young lion among the flocks of sheep: who, if he go through, both treadeth down, and teareth in pieces, and none can deliver.

5:9    願你的手舉起，高過敵人，願你的仇敵都被剪除。
Thine hand shall be lifted up upon thine adversaries, and all thine enemies shall be cut off.

5:10    耶和華說，到那日，我必從你中間剪除馬匹，毀壞車輛。
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD, that I will cut off thy horses out of the midst of thee, and I will destroy thy chariots:

5:11    也必從你國中除滅城邑，拆毀一切的保障。
And I will cut off the cities of thy land, and throw down all thy strong holds:

5:12    又必除掉你手中的邪術。你那裡也不再有占卜的。
And I will cut off witchcrafts out of thine hand; and thou shalt have no more soothsayers:

5:13    我必從你中間除滅雕刻的偶像，和柱像。你就不再跪拜自己手所造的。
Thy graven images also will I cut off, and thy standing images out of the midst of thee; and thou shalt no more worship the work of thine hands.

5:14    我必從你中間拔出木偶。又毀滅你的城邑。
And I will pluck up thy groves out of the midst of thee: so will I destroy thy cities.

5:15    我也必在怒氣，和忿怒中向那不聽從的列國施報。
And I will execute vengeance in anger and fury upon the heathen, such as they have not heard.




舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


6:1    以色列人哪，當聽耶和華的話。要起來向山嶺爭辯，使岡陵聽你的話。
Hear ye now what the LORD saith; Arise, contend thou before the mountains, and let the hills hear thy voice.

6:2    山嶺和地永久的根基阿，要聽耶和華爭辯的話。因為耶和華要與他的百姓爭辯，與以色列爭論。
Hear ye, O mountains, the LORD's controversy, and ye strong foundations of the earth: for the LORD hath a controversy with his people, and he will plead with Israel.

6:3    我的百姓阿，我向你做了什麼呢。我在什麼事上使你厭煩。你可以對我證明。
O my people, what have I done unto thee? and wherein have I wearied thee? testify against me.

6:4    我曾將你從埃及地領出來，從作奴僕之家救贖你。我也差遣摩西，亞倫，和米利暗在你前面行。
For I brought thee up out of the land of Egypt, and redeemed thee out of the house of servants; and I sent before thee Moses, Aaron, and Miriam.

6:5    我的百姓阿，你們當追念摩押王巴勒所設的謀，和比珥的兒子巴蘭回答他的話，並你們從什亭到吉甲所遇見的事，好使你們知道耶和華公義的作為。
O my people, remember now what Balak king of Moab consulted, and what Balaam the son of Beor answered him from Shittim unto Gilgal; that ye may know the righteousness of the LORD.

6:6    我朝見耶和華，在至高神面前跪拜，當獻上什麼呢。豈可獻一歲的牛犢為燔祭嗎。
Wherewith shall I come before the LORD, and bow myself before the high God? shall I come before him with burnt offerings, with calves of a year old?

6:7    耶和華豈喜悅千千的公羊，或是千千萬萬的油河嗎。我豈可為自己的罪過，獻我的長子嗎，為心中的罪惡，獻我身所生的嗎。
Will the LORD be pleased with thousands of rams, or with ten thousands of rivers of oil? shall I give my firstborn for my transgression, the fruit of my body for the sin of my soul?

6:8    世人哪，耶和華已指示你何為善。他向你所要的是什麼呢。只要你行公義，好憐憫，存謙卑的心，與你的神同行。
He hath shewed thee, O man, what is good; and what doth the LORD require of thee, but to do justly, and to love mercy, and to walk humbly with thy God?

6:9    耶和華向這城呼叫，智慧人必敬畏他的名。你們當聽是誰派定刑杖的懲罰。
The LORD's voice crieth unto the city, and the man of wisdom shall see thy name: hear ye the rod, and who hath appointed it.

6:10    惡人家中不仍有非義之財，和可惡的小升鬥嗎。
Are there yet the treasures of wickedness in the house of the wicked, and the scant measure that is abominable?

6:11    我若用不公道的天平，和囊中詭詐的法碼，豈可算為清潔呢。
Shall I count them pure with the wicked balances, and with the bag of deceitful weights?

6:12    城裡的富戶滿行強暴，其中的居民也說謊言，口中的舌頭是詭詐的。
For the rich men thereof are full of violence, and the inhabitants thereof have spoken lies, and their tongue is deceitful in their mouth.

6:13    因此，我擊打你，使你的傷痕甚重。使你因你的罪惡荒涼。
Therefore also will I make thee sick in smiting thee, in making thee desolate because of thy sins.

6:14    你要吃，卻吃不飽。你的虛弱，必顯在你中間。你必挪去，卻不得救護。所救護的，我必交給刀劍。
Thou shalt eat, but not be satisfied; and thy casting down shall be in the midst of thee; and thou shalt take hold, but shalt not deliver; and that which thou deliverest will I give up to the sword.

6:15    你必撒種，卻不得收割。踹橄欖，卻不得油抹身。踹葡萄，卻不得酒喝。
Thou shalt sow, but thou shalt not reap; thou shalt tread the olives, but thou shalt not anoint thee with oil; and sweet wine, but shalt not drink wine.

6:16    因為你守暗利的惡規，行亞哈家一切所行的，順從他們的計謀。因此，我必使你荒涼，使你的居民令人嗤笑。你們也必擔當我民的羞辱。
For the statutes of Omri are kept, and all the works of the house of Ahab, and ye walk in their counsels; that I should make thee a desolation, and the inhabitants thereof an hissing: therefore ye shall bear the reproach of my people.




舊約 -- 彌迦書(Micah) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 7 章 )    　


7:1    哀哉，我（或作以色列）好像夏天的果子已被收盡，又像摘了葡萄所剩下的。沒有一掛可吃的，我心羨慕初熟的無花果。
Woe is me! for I am as when they have gathered the summer fruits, as the grapegleanings of the vintage: there is no cluster to eat: my soul desired the firstripe fruit.

7:2    地上虔誠人滅盡，世間沒有正直人。各人埋伏，要殺人流血。都用網羅獵取弟兄。
The good man is perished out of the earth: and there is none upright among men: they all lie in wait for blood; they hunt every man his brother with a net.

7:3    他們雙手作惡。君王徇情面，審判官要賄賂。位分大的吐出惡意。都彼此結聯行惡。
That they may do evil with both hands earnestly, the prince asketh, and the judge asketh for a reward; and the great man, he uttereth his mischievous desire: so they wrap it up.

7:4    他們最好的，不過是蒺藜。最正直的，不過是荊棘籬笆。你守望者說降罰的日子已經來到。他們必擾亂不安。
The best of them is as a brier: the most upright is sharper than a thorn hedge: the day of thy watchmen and thy visitation cometh; now shall be their perplexity.

7:5    不要倚賴鄰舍。不要信靠密友。要守住你的口，不要向你懷中的妻題說。
Trust ye not in a friend, put ye not confidence in a guide: keep the doors of thy mouth from her that lieth in thy bosom.

7:6    因為，兒子藐視父親，女兒抗拒母親，媳婦抗拒婆婆。人的仇敵，就是自己家裡的人。
For the son dishonoureth the father, the daughter riseth up against her mother, the daughter in law against her mother in law; a man's enemies are the men of his own house.

7:7    至於我，我要仰望耶和華，要等候那救我的神。我的神必應允我。
Therefore I will look unto the LORD; I will wait for the God of my salvation: my God will hear me.

7:8    我的仇敵阿，不要向我誇耀。我雖跌倒，卻要起來。我雖坐在黑暗裡，耶和華卻作我的光。
Rejoice not against me, O mine enemy: when I fall, I shall arise; when I sit in darkness, the LORD shall be a light unto me.

7:9    我要忍受耶和華的惱怒，因我得罪了他。直等他為我辨屈，為我伸冤。他必領我到光明中，我必得見他的公義。
I will bear the indignation of the LORD, because I have sinned against him, until he plead my cause, and execute judgment for me: he will bring me forth to the light, and I shall behold his righteousness.

7:10    那時我的仇敵，就是曾對我說耶和華你神在哪裡的，他一看見這事就被羞愧遮蓋。我必親眼見他遭報。他必被踐踏，如同街上的泥土。
Then she that is mine enemy shall see it, and shame shall cover her which said unto me, Where is the LORD thy God? mine eyes shall behold her: now shall she be trodden down as the mire of the streets.

7:11    以色列阿，日子必到，你的牆垣必重修。到那日，你的境界必開展（或作命令必傳到遠方）。
In the day that thy walls are to be built, in that day shall the decree be far removed.

7:12    當那日，人必從亞述，從埃及的城邑，從埃及到大河，從這海到那海，從這山到那山，都歸到你這裡。
In that day also he shall come even to thee from Assyria, and from the fortified cities, and from the fortress even to the river, and from sea to sea, and from mountain to mountain.

7:13    然而，這地因居民的緣故，又因他們行事的結果，必然荒涼。
Notwithstanding the land shall be desolate because of them that dwell therein, for the fruit of their doings.

7:14    求耶和華在迦密山的樹林中，用你的杖牧放你獨居的民，就是你產業的羊群。求你容他們在巴珊和基列得食物，像古時一樣。
Feed thy people with thy rod, the flock of thine heritage, which dwell solitarily in the wood, in the midst of Carmel: let them feed in Bashan and Gilead, as in the days of old.

7:15    耶和華說，我要把奇事顯給他們看，好像出埃及地的時候一樣。
According to the days of thy coming out of the land of Egypt will I shew unto him marvellous things.

7:16    列國看見這事，就必為自己的勢力慚愧。他們必用手捂口，掩耳不聽。
The nations shall see and be confounded at all their might: they shall lay their hand upon their mouth, their ears shall be deaf.

7:17    他們必舔土如蛇，又如土中腹行的物，戰戰兢兢地出他們的營寨。他們必戰懼投降耶和華，也必因我們的神而懼怕。
They shall lick the dust like a serpent, they shall move out of their holes like worms of the earth: they shall be afraid of the LORD our God, and shall fear because of thee.

7:18    神阿，有何神像你，赦免罪孽，饒恕你產業之餘民的罪過。不永遠懷怒，喜愛施恩。
Who is a God like unto thee, that pardoneth iniquity, and passeth by the transgression of the remnant of his heritage? he retaineth not his anger for ever, because he delighteth in mercy.

7:19    必再憐憫我們，將我們的罪孽踏在腳下，又將我們的一切罪投於深海。
He will turn again, he will have compassion upon us; he will subdue our iniquities; and thou wilt cast all their sins into the depths of the sea.

7:20    你必按古時起誓應許我們列祖的話，向雅各發誠實，向亞伯拉罕施慈愛。
Thou wilt perform the truth to Jacob, and the mercy to Abraham, which thou hast sworn unto our fathers from the days of old.




