



舊約 -- 那鴻書(Nahum) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    論尼尼微的默示，就是伊勒歌斯人那鴻所得的默示。
The burden of Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum the Elkoshite.

1:2    耶和華是忌邪施報的神。耶和華施報大有忿怒。向他的敵人施報，向他的仇敵懷怒。
God is jealous, and the LORD revengeth; the LORD revengeth, and is furious; the LORD will take vengeance on his adversaries, and he reserveth wrath for his enemies.

1:3    耶和華不輕易發怒，大有能力，萬不以有罪的為無罪。他乘旋風和暴風而來，雲彩為他腳下的塵土。
The LORD is slow to anger, and great in power, and will not at all acquit the wicked: the LORD hath his way in the whirlwind and in the storm, and the clouds are the dust of his feet.

1:4    他斥責海，使海乾了，使一切江河乾涸。巴珊和迦密的樹林衰殘，黎巴嫩的花草也衰殘了。
He rebuketh the sea, and maketh it dry, and drieth up all the rivers: Bashan languisheth, and Carmel, and the flower of Lebanon languisheth.

1:5    大山因他震動，小山也都消化。大地在他面前突起，世界和住在其間的，也都如此。
The mountains quake at him, and the hills melt, and the earth is burned at his presence, yea, the world, and all that dwell therein.

1:6    他發忿恨，誰能立得住呢。他發烈怒，誰能當得起呢。他的忿怒如火傾倒，磐石因他崩裂。
Who can stand before his indignation? and who can abide in the fierceness of his anger? his fury is poured out like fire, and the rocks are thrown down by him.

1:7    耶和華本為善，在患難的日子為人的保障。並且認得那些投靠他的人。
The LORD is good, a strong hold in the day of trouble; and he knoweth them that trust in him.

1:8    但他必以漲溢的洪水淹沒尼尼微，又驅逐仇敵進入黑暗。
But with an overrunning flood he will make an utter end of the place thereof, and darkness shall pursue his enemies.

1:9    尼尼微人哪，設何謀攻擊耶和華呢。他必將你們滅絕淨盡。災難不再興起。
What do ye imagine against the LORD? he will make an utter end: affliction shall not rise up the second time.

1:10    你們像叢雜的荊棘，像喝醉了的人，又如枯乾的碎秸全然燒滅。
For while they be folden together as thorns, and while they are drunken as drunkards, they shall be devoured as stubble fully dry.

1:11    有一人從你那裡出來，圖謀邪惡，設惡計攻擊耶和華。
There is one come out of thee, that imagineth evil against the LORD, a wicked counsellor.

1:12    耶和華如此說，尼尼微雖然勢力充足，人數繁多，也被剪除，歸於無有。猶大阿，我雖然使你受苦，卻不再使你受苦。
Thus saith the LORD; Though they be quiet, and likewise many, yet thus shall they be cut down, when he shall pass through. Though I have afflicted thee, I will afflict thee no more.

1:13    現在我必從你頸項上折斷他的軛，扭開他的繩索。
For now will I break his yoke from off thee, and will burst thy bonds in sunder.

1:14    耶和華已經出令，指著尼尼微說，你名下的人必不留後。我必從你神的廟中，除滅雕刻的偶像，和鑄造的偶像。我必因你鄙陋，使你歸於墳墓。
And the LORD hath given a commandment concerning thee, that no more of thy name be sown: out of the house of thy gods will I cut off the graven image and the molten image: I will make thy grave; for thou art vile.

1:15    看哪，有報好信傳平安之人的腳登山，說，猶大阿，可以守你的節期，還你所許的願吧。因為那惡人不再從你中間經過。他已滅絕淨盡了。
Behold upon the mountains the feet of him that bringeth good tidings, that publisheth peace! O Judah, keep thy solemn feasts, perform thy vows: for the wicked shall no more pass through thee; he is utterly cut off.




舊約 -- 那鴻書(Nahum) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


2:1    尼尼微阿，那打碎邦國的上來攻擊你。你要看守保障，謹防道路，使腰強壯，大大勉力。
He that dasheth in pieces is come up before thy face: keep the munition, watch the way, make thy loins strong, fortify thy power mightily.

2:2    耶和華復興雅各的榮華，好像以色列的榮華一樣。因為使地空虛的，已經使雅各和以色列空虛，將他們的葡萄枝毀壞了。
For the LORD hath turned away the excellency of Jacob, as the excellency of Israel: for the emptiers have emptied them out, and marred their vine branches.

2:3    他勇士的盾牌是紅的，精兵都穿硃紅衣服。在他預備爭戰的日子，戰車上的鋼鐵閃爍如火，柏木把的槍也掄起來了。
The shield of his mighty men is made red, the valiant men are in scarlet: the chariots shall be with flaming torches in the day of his preparation, and the fir trees shall be terribly shaken.

2:4    車輛在街上（或作城外）急行，在寬闊處奔來奔去，形狀如火把，飛跑如閃電。
The chariots shall rage in the streets, they shall justle one against another in the broad ways: they shall seem like torches, they shall run like the lightnings.

2:5    尼尼微王招聚他的貴胄。他們步行絆跌。速上城牆，預備擋牌。
He shall recount his worthies: they shall stumble in their walk; they shall make haste to the wall thereof, and the defence shall be prepared.

2:6    河閘開放，宮殿衝沒。
The gates of the rivers shall be opened, and the palace shall be dissolved.

2:7    王后蒙羞，被人擄去，宮女捶胸，哀嗚如鴿。此乃命定之事。
And Huzzab shall be led away captive, she shall be brought up, and her maids shall lead her as with the voice of doves, tabering upon their breasts.

2:8    尼尼微自古以來充滿人民。如同聚水的池子，現在居民卻都逃跑。雖有人呼喊說，站住，站住，卻無人回顧。
But Nineveh is of old like a pool of water: yet they shall flee away. Stand, stand, shall they cry; but none shall look back.

2:9    你們搶掠金銀吧。因為所積蓄的無窮，華美的寶器無數。
Take ye the spoil of silver, take the spoil of gold: for there is none end of the store and glory out of all the pleasant furniture.

2:10    尼尼微現在空虛荒涼，人心消化，雙膝相碰，腰都疼痛，臉都變色。
She is empty, and void, and waste: and the heart melteth, and the knees smite together, and much pain is in all loins, and the faces of them all gather blackness.

2:11    獅子的洞和少壯獅子餵養之處在哪裡呢，公獅母獅小獅遊行，無人驚嚇之地在哪裡呢。
Where is the dwelling of the lions, and the feedingplace of the young lions, where the lion, even the old lion, walked, and the lion's whelp, and none made them afraid?

2:12    公獅為小獅撕碎許多食物，為母獅掐死活物，把撕碎的，掐死的充滿它的洞穴。
The lion did tear in pieces enough for his whelps, and strangled for his lionesses, and filled his holes with prey, and his dens with ravin.

2:13    萬軍之耶和華說，我與你為敵，必將你的車輛焚燒成煙，刀劍也必吞滅你的少壯獅子。我必從地上除滅你所撕碎的，你使者的聲音必不再聽見。
Behold, I am against thee, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will burn her chariots in the smoke, and the sword shall devour thy young lions: and I will cut off thy prey from the earth, and the voice of thy messengers shall no more be heard.




舊約 -- 那鴻書(Nahum) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    禍哉，這流人血的城，充滿謊詐和強暴。搶奪的事，總不止息。
Woe to the bloody city! it is all full of lies and robbery; the prey departeth not;

3:2    鞭聲響亮，車輪轟轟，馬匹踢跳，車輛奔騰，
The noise of a whip, and the noise of the rattling of the wheels, and of the pransing horses, and of the jumping chariots.

3:3    馬兵爭先，刀劍發光，槍矛閃爍，被殺的甚多，屍首成了大堆，屍骸無數，人碰著而跌倒。
The horseman lifteth up both the bright sword and the glittering spear: and there is a multitude of slain, and a great number of carcases; and there is none end of their corpses; they stumble upon their corpses:

3:4    都因那美貌的妓女多有淫行，慣行邪術，藉淫行誘惑列國，用邪術誘惑（原文作賣）多族。
Because of the multitude of the whoredoms of the wellfavoured harlot, the mistress of witchcrafts, that selleth nations through her whoredoms, and families through her witchcrafts.

3:5    萬軍之耶和華說，我與你為敵。我必揭起你的衣襟，蒙在你臉上，使列國看見你的赤體，使列邦觀看你的醜陋。
Behold, I am against thee, saith the LORD of hosts; and I will discover thy skirts upon thy face, and I will shew the nations thy nakedness, and the kingdoms thy shame.

3:6    我必將可憎汙穢之物拋在你身上，辱沒你，為眾目所觀。
And I will cast abominable filth upon thee, and make thee vile, and will set thee as a gazingstock.

3:7    凡看見你的，都必逃跑離開你，說，尼尼微荒涼了。有誰為你悲傷呢。我何處尋得安慰你的人呢。
And it shall come to pass, that all they that look upon thee shall flee from thee, and say, Nineveh is laid waste: who will bemoan her? whence shall I seek comforters for thee?

3:8    你豈比挪亞們強呢。挪亞們坐落在眾河之間，周圍有水。海（指尼羅河）作她的濠溝，又作她的城牆。
Art thou better than populous No, that was situate among the rivers, that had the waters round about it, whose rampart was the sea, and her wall was from the sea?

3:9    古實和埃及是她無窮的力量。弗人和路比族是她的幫手。
Ethiopia and Egypt were her strength, and it was infinite; Put and Lubim were thy helpers.

3:10    但她被遷移，被擄去。她的嬰孩在各市口上也被摔死。人為她的尊貴人拈鬮，她所有的大人都被鏈子鎖著。
Yet was she carried away, she went into captivity: her young children also were dashed in pieces at the top of all the streets: and they cast lots for her honourable men, and all her great men were bound in chains.

3:11    你也必喝醉，必被埋藏。並因仇敵的緣故尋求避難所。
Thou also shalt be drunken: thou shalt be hid, thou also shalt seek strength because of the enemy.

3:12    你一切保障，必像無花果樹上初熟的無花果。若一搖撼，就落在想吃之人的口中。
All thy strong holds shall be like fig trees with the firstripe figs: if they be shaken, they shall even fall into the mouth of the eater.

3:13    你地上的人民，如同婦女。你國中的關口，向仇敵敞開。你的門閂被火焚燒。
Behold, thy people in the midst of thee are women: the gates of thy land shall be set wide open unto thine enemies: the fire shall devour thy bars.

3:14    你要打水預備受困。要堅固你的保障。踹土和泥，修補磚窯。
Draw thee waters for the siege, fortify thy strong holds: go into clay, and tread the morter, make strong the brickkiln.

3:15    在那裡，火必燒滅你，刀必殺戮你，吞滅你如同蝻子。任你加增人數多如蝻子，多如蝗蟲吧。
There shall the fire devour thee; the sword shall cut thee off, it shall eat thee up like the cankerworm: make thyself many as the cankerworm, make thyself many as the locusts.

3:16    你增添商賈，多過天上的星。蝻子吃盡而去。
Thou hast multiplied thy merchants above the stars of heaven: the cankerworm spoileth, and fleeth away.

3:17    你的首領，多如蝗蟲，你的軍長，彷佛成群的螞蚱，天涼的時候，齊落在籬笆上，日頭一出便都飛去，人不知道落在何處。
Thy crowned are as the locusts, and thy captains as the great grasshoppers, which camp in the hedges in the cold day, but when the sun ariseth they flee away, and their place is not known where they are.

3:18    亞述王阿，你的牧人睡覺，你的貴胄安歇。你的人民散在山間，無人招聚。
Thy shepherds slumber, O king of Assyria: thy nobles shall dwell in the dust: thy people is scattered upon the mountains, and no man gathereth them.

3:19    你的損傷無法醫治，你的傷痕極其重大。凡聽你資訊的，必都因此向你拍掌。你所行的惡，誰沒有時常遭遇呢。
There is no healing of thy bruise; thy wound is grievous: all that hear the bruit of thee shall clap the hands over thee: for upon whom hath not thy wickedness passed continually?




