

舊約 -- 哈巴谷書(Habakkuk) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    先知哈巴谷所得的默示。
The burden which Habakkuk the prophet did see.

1:2    他說，耶和華阿，我呼求你，你不應允，要到幾時呢。我因強暴哀求你，你還不拯救。
O LORD, how long shall I cry, and thou wilt not hear! even cry out unto thee of violence, and thou wilt not save!

1:3    你為何使我看見罪孽。你為何看著奸惡而不理呢。毀滅和強暴在我面前。又起了爭端和相鬥的事。
Why dost thou shew me iniquity, and cause me to behold grievance? for spoiling and violence are before me: and there are that raise up strife and contention.

1:4    因此律法放鬆，公理也不顯明。惡人圍困義人。所以公理顯然顛倒。
Therefore the law is slacked, and judgment doth never go forth: for the wicked doth compass about the righteous; therefore wrong judgment proceedeth.

1:5    耶和華說，你們要向列國中觀看，大大驚奇。因為在你們的時候，我行一件事，雖有人告訴你們，你們總是不信。
Behold ye among the heathen, and regard, and wonder marvellously: for I will work a work in your days, which ye will not believe, though it be told you.

1:6    我必興起迦勒底人，就是那殘忍暴躁之民，通行遍地，佔據那不屬自己的住處。
For, lo, I raise up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, which shall march through the breadth of the land, to possess the dwellingplaces that are not theirs.

1:7    他威武可畏。判斷和勢力，都任意發出。
They are terrible and dreadful: their judgment and their dignity shall proceed of themselves.

1:8    他的馬比豹更快，比晚上的豺狼更猛。馬兵踴躍爭先，都從遠方而來，他們飛跑如鷹抓食。
Their horses also are swifter than the leopards, and are more fierce than the evening wolves: and their horsemen shall spread themselves, and their horsemen shall come from far; they shall fly as the eagle that hasteth to eat.

1:9    都為行強暴而來。定住臉面向前，將擄掠的人聚集，多如塵沙。
They shall come all for violence: their faces shall sup up as the east wind, and they shall gather the captivity as the sand.

1:10    他們譏誚君王，笑話首領，嗤笑一切保障，築壘攻取。
And they shall scoff at the kings, and the princes shall be a scorn unto them: they shall deride every strong hold; for they shall heap dust, and take it.

1:11    他以自己的勢力為神，像風猛然掃過，顯為有罪。
Then shall his mind change, and he shall pass over, and offend, imputing this his power unto his god.

1:12    耶和華我的神，我的聖者阿，你不是從亙古而有嗎。我們必不致死。耶和華阿，你派定他為要刑罰人。磐石阿，你設立他為要懲治人。
Art thou not from everlasting, O LORD my God, mine Holy One? we shall not die. O LORD, thou hast ordained them for judgment; and, O mighty God, thou hast established them for correction.

1:13    你眼目清潔，不看邪僻，不看奸惡。行詭詐的，你為何看著不理呢。惡人吞滅比自己公義的，你為何靜默不語呢。
Thou art of purer eyes than to behold evil, and canst not look on iniquity: wherefore lookest thou upon them that deal treacherously, and holdest thy tongue when the wicked devoureth the man that is more righteous than he?

1:14    你為何使人如海中的魚，又如沒有管轄的爬物呢。
And makest men as the fishes of the sea, as the creeping things, that have no ruler over them?

1:15    他用鉤鉤住，用網捕獲，用拉網聚集他們。因此，他歡喜快樂。
They take up all of them with the angle, they catch them in their net, and gather them in their drag: therefore they rejoice and are glad.

1:16    就向網獻祭，向網燒香。因他由此得肥美的分，和富裕的食物。
Therefore they sacrifice unto their net, and burn incense unto their drag; because by them their portion is fat, and their meat plenteous.

1:17    他豈可屢次倒空網羅，將列國的人時常殺戮，毫不顧惜呢。
Shall they therefore empty their net, and not spare continually to slay the nations?




舊約 -- 哈巴谷書(Habakkuk) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


2:1    我要站在守望所，立在望樓上觀看，看耶和華對我說什麼話，我可用什麼話向他訴冤。（向他訴冤或作回答所疑問的）。
I will stand upon my watch, and set me upon the tower, and will watch to see what he will say unto me, and what I shall answer when I am reproved.

2:2    他對我說，將這默示明明地寫在版上，使讀的人容易讀（或作隨跑隨讀）。
And the LORD answered me, and said, Write the vision, and make it plain upon tables, that he may run that readeth it.

2:3    因為這默示有一定的日期，快要應驗，並不虛謊。雖然遲延，還要等候。因為必然臨到，不再遲延。
For the vision is yet for an appointed time, but at the end it shall speak, and not lie: though it tarry, wait for it; because it will surely come, it will not tarry.

2:4    迦勒底人自高自大，心不正直。惟義人因信得生。
Behold, his soul which is lifted up is not upright in him: but the just shall live by his faith.

2:5    迦勒底人因酒詭詐，狂傲，不住在家中，擴充心欲，好像陰間。他如死不能知足，聚集萬國，堆積萬民，都歸自己。
Yea also, because he transgresseth by wine, he is a proud man, neither keepeth at home, who enlargeth his desire as hell, and is as death, and cannot be satisfied, but gathereth unto him all nations, and heapeth unto him all people:

2:6    這些國的民，豈不都要提起詩歌，並俗語譏刺他，說，禍哉，迦勒底人，你增添不屬自己的財物，多多取人的當頭，要到幾時為止呢。
Shall not all these take up a parable against him, and a taunting proverb against him, and say, Woe to him that increaseth that which is not his! how long? and to him that ladeth himself with thick clay!

2:7    咬傷你的豈不忽然起來，擾害你的豈不興起，你就作他們的擄物嗎。
Shall they not rise up suddenly that shall bite thee, and awake that shall vex thee, and thou shalt be for booties unto them?

2:8    因你搶奪許多的國，殺人流血，向國內的城，並城中一切居民施行強暴，所以各國剩下的民，都必搶奪你。
Because thou hast spoiled many nations, all the remnant of the people shall spoil thee; because of men's blood, and for the violence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein.

2:9    為本家積蓄不義之財，在高處搭窩，指望免災的有禍了。
Woe to him that coveteth an evil covetousness to his house, that he may set his nest on high, that he may be delivered from the power of evil!

2:10    你圖謀剪除多國的民，犯了罪，使你的家蒙羞，自害己命。
Thou hast consulted shame to thy house by cutting off many people, and hast sinned against thy soul.

2:11    牆裡的石頭必呼叫，房內的楝樑必應聲。
For the stone shall cry out of the wall, and the beam out of the timber shall answer it.

2:12    以人血建城，以罪孽立邑的有禍了。
Woe to him that buildeth a town with blood, and stablisheth a city by iniquity!

2:13    眾民所勞碌得來的被火焚燒，列國由勞乏而得的，歸於虛空，不都是出於萬軍之耶和華嗎。
Behold, is it not of the LORD of hosts that the people shall labour in the very fire, and the people shall weary themselves for very vanity?

2:14    認識耶和華榮耀的知識，要充滿遍地，好像水充滿洋海一般。
For the earth shall be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the LORD, as the waters cover the sea.

2:15    給人酒喝，又加上毒物，使他喝醉，好看見他下體的，有禍了。
Woe unto him that giveth his neighbour drink, that puttest thy bottle to him, and makest him drunken also, that thou mayest look on their nakedness!

2:16    你滿受羞辱，不得榮耀。你也喝吧，顯出是未受割禮的。耶和華右手的杯，必傳到你那裡，你的榮耀，就變為大大地羞辱。
Thou art filled with shame for glory: drink thou also, and let thy foreskin be uncovered: the cup of the LORD's right hand shall be turned unto thee, and shameful spewing shall be on thy glory.

2:17    你向黎巴嫩行強暴，與殘害驚嚇野獸的事，必遮蓋你。因你殺人流血，向國內的城，並城中一切居民，施行強暴。
For the violence of Lebanon shall cover thee, and the spoil of beasts, which made them afraid, because of men's blood, and for the violence of the land, of the city, and of all that dwell therein.

2:18    雕刻的偶像，人將它刻出來，有什麼益處呢。鑄造的偶像，就是虛謊的師傅。製造者倚靠這啞巴偶像，有什麼益處呢。
What profiteth the graven image that the maker thereof hath graven it; the molten image, and a teacher of lies, that the maker of his work trusteth therein, to make dumb idols?

2:19    對木偶說，醒起，對啞巴石像說，起來，那人有禍了。這個還能教訓人嗎。看哪，是包裹金銀的，其中毫無氣息。
Woe unto him that saith to the wood, Awake; to the dumb stone, Arise, it shall teach! Behold, it is laid over with gold and silver, and there is no breath at all in the midst of it.

2:20    惟耶和華在他的聖殿中。全地的人，都當在他面前肅敬靜默。
But the LORD is in his holy temple: let all the earth keep silence before him.




舊約 -- 哈巴谷書(Habakkuk) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    先知哈巴谷的禱告，呼叫流離歌。
A prayer of Habakkuk the prophet upon Shigionoth.

3:2    耶和華阿，我聽見你的名聲（或作言語），就懼怕。耶和華阿，求你在這些年間復興你的作為，在這些年間顯明出來，在發怒的時候，以憐憫為念。
O LORD, I have heard thy speech, and was afraid: O LORD, revive thy work in the midst of the years, in the midst of the years make known; in wrath remember mercy.

3:3    神從毯螅而來，聖者從巴蘭山臨到。（細拉）他的榮光遮蔽諸天，頌讚充滿大地。
God came from Teman, and the Holy One from mount Paran. Selah. His glory covered the heavens, and the earth was full of his praise.

3:4    他的輝煌如同日光。從他手裡射出光線。在其中藏著他的能力。
And his brightness was as the light; he had horns coming out of his hand: and there was the hiding of his power.

3:5    在他前面有瘟疫流行，在他腳下有熱症發出。
Before him went the pestilence, and burning coals went forth at his feet.

3:6    他站立，量了大地（或作使地震動），觀看，趕散萬民。永久的山崩裂，長存的嶺塌陷。他的作為與古時一樣。
He stood, and measured the earth: he beheld, and drove asunder the nations; and the everlasting mountains were scattered, the perpetual hills did bow: his ways are everlasting.

3:7    我見古珊的帳棚遭難，米甸的幔子戰兢。
I saw the tents of Cushan in affliction: and the curtains of the land of Midian did tremble.

3:8    耶和華阿，你乘在馬上，坐在得勝的車上，豈是不喜悅江河，向江河發怒氣，向洋海發憤恨嗎。
Was the LORD displeased against the rivers? was thine anger against the rivers? was thy wrath against the sea, that thou didst ride upon thine horses and thy chariots of salvation?

3:9    你的弓全然顯露。向眾支派所起的誓，都是可信的。（細拉）你以江河分開大地。
Thy bow was made quite naked, according to the oaths of the tribes, even thy word. Selah. Thou didst cleave the earth with rivers.

3:10    山嶺見你，無不戰懼。大水氾濫過去，深淵發聲，洶湧翻騰。（原文作向上舉手）。
The mountains saw thee, and they trembled: the overflowing of the water passed by: the deep uttered his voice, and lifted up his hands on high.

3:11    因你的箭射出發光，你的槍閃出光耀，日月都在本宮停住。
The sun and moon stood still in their habitation: at the light of thine arrows they went, and at the shining of thy glittering spear.

3:12    你發憤恨通行大地。發怒氣責打列國，如同打糧。
Thou didst march through the land in indignation, thou didst thresh the heathen in anger.

3:13    你出來要拯救你的百姓，拯救你的受膏者，打破惡人家長的頭。露出他的腳，（腳原文是根基），直到頸項。（細拉）
Thou wentest forth for the salvation of thy people, even for salvation with thine anointed; thou woundedst the head out of the house of the wicked, by discovering the foundation unto the neck. Selah.

3:14    你用敵人的戈矛刺透他戰士的頭。他們來如旋風，要將我們分散。他們所喜愛的，是暗中吞吃貧民。
Thou didst strike through with his staves the head of his villages: they came out as a whirlwind to scatter me: their rejoicing was as to devour the poor secretly.

3:15    你乘馬踐踏紅海，就是踐踏洶湧的大水。
Thou didst walk through the sea with thine horses, through the heap of great waters.

3:16    我聽見耶和華的聲音，身體戰兢，嘴脣發顫，骨中朽爛。我在所立之處戰兢。我只可安靜等候災難之日臨到，犯境之民上來。
When I heard, my belly trembled; my lips quivered at the voice: rottenness entered into my bones, and I trembled in myself, that I might rest in the day of trouble: when he cometh up unto the people, he will invade them with his troops.

3:17    雖然無花果樹不發旺，葡萄樹不結果，橄欖樹也不效力，田地不出糧食，圈中絕了羊，棚內也沒有牛。
Although the fig tree shall not blossom, neither shall fruit be in the vines; the labour of the olive shall fail, and the fields shall yield no meat; the flock shall be cut off from the fold, and there shall be no herd in the stalls:

3:18    然而我要因耶和華歡欣，因救我的神喜樂。
Yet I will rejoice in the LORD, I will joy in the God of my salvation.

3:19    主耶和華是我的力量。他使我的腳快如母鹿的蹄。又使我穩行在高處。這歌交與伶長，用絲絃的樂器。
The LORD God is my strength, and he will make my feet like hinds' feet, and he will make me to walk upon mine high places. To the chief singer on my stringed instruments.




