
舊約 -- 西番雅書(Zephaniah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


1:1    當猶大王亞們的兒子約西亞在位的時候，耶和華的話臨到希西家的元孫，亞瑪利雅的曾孫，基大利的孫子，古示的兒子西番雅。
The word of the LORD which came unto Zephaniah the son of Cushi, the son of Gedaliah, the son of Amariah, the son of Hizkiah, in the days of Josiah the son of Amon, king of Judah.

1:2    耶和華說，我必從地上除滅萬類。
I will utterly consume all things from off the land, saith the LORD.

1:3    我必除滅人和牲畜，與空中的鳥，海里的魚，以及絆腳石和惡人。我必將人從地上剪除。這是耶和華說的。
I will consume man and beast; I will consume the fowls of the heaven, and the fishes of the sea, and the stumbling blocks with the wicked: and I will cut off man from off the land, saith the LORD.

1:4    我必伸手攻擊猶大和耶路撒冷的一切居民。也必從這地方剪除所剩下的巴力，並基瑪林的名和祭司，
I will also stretch out mine hand upon Judah, and upon all the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and I will cut off the remnant of Baal from this place, and the name of the Chemarims with the priests;

1:5    與那些在房頂上敬拜天上永珍的，並那些敬拜耶和華指著他起誓，又指著瑪勒堪起誓的，
And them that worship the host of heaven upon the housetops; and them that worship and that swear by the LORD, and that swear by Malcham;

1:6    與那些轉去不跟從耶和華的，和不尋求耶和華，也不訪問他的。
And them that are turned back from the LORD; and those that have not sought the LORD, nor enquired for him.

1:7    你要在主耶和華面前靜默無聲，因為耶和華的日子快到。耶和華已經預備祭物，將他的客分別為聖。
Hold thy peace at the presence of the Lord GOD: for the day of the LORD is at hand: for the LORD hath prepared a sacrifice, he hath bid his guests.

1:8    到了我耶和華獻祭的日子，必懲罰首領和王子，並一切穿外邦衣服的。
And it shall come to pass in the day of the LORD's sacrifice, that I will punish the princes, and the king's children, and all such as are clothed with strange apparel.

1:9    到那日，我必懲罰一切跳過門檻，將強暴和詭詐得來之物充滿主人房屋的。
In the same day also will I punish all those that leap on the threshold, which fill their masters' houses with violence and deceit.

1:10    耶和華說，當那日，從魚門必發出悲哀的聲音，從二城發出哀號的聲音，從山間發出大破裂的響聲。
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD, that there shall be the noise of a cry from the fish gate, and an howling from the second, and a great crashing from the hills.

1:11    瑪革提施的居民哪，你們要哀號，因為迦南的商民都滅亡了。凡搬運銀子的都被剪除。
Howl, ye inhabitants of Maktesh, for all the merchant people are cut down; all they that bear silver are cut off.

1:12    那時，我必用燈巡查耶路撒冷。我必懲罰那些如酒在渣滓上澄清的。他們心裡說，耶和華必不降福，也不降禍。
And it shall come to pass at that time, that I will search Jerusalem with candles, and punish the men that are settled on their lees: that say in their heart, The LORD will not do good, neither will he do evil.

1:13    他們的財寶，必成為掠物，他們的房屋，必變為荒場。他們必建造房屋，卻不得住在其內，栽種葡萄園，卻不得喝所出的酒。
Therefore their goods shall become a booty, and their houses a desolation: they shall also build houses, but not inhabit them; and they shall plant vineyards, but not drink the wine thereof.

1:14    耶和華的大日臨近，臨近而且甚快，乃是耶和華日子的風聲。勇士必痛痛的哭號。
The great day of the LORD is near, it is near, and hasteth greatly, even the voice of the day of the LORD: the mighty man shall cry there bitterly.

1:15    那日是忿怒的日子，是急難困苦的日子，是荒廢淒涼的日子，是黑暗，幽冥，密雲，烏黑的日子。
That day is a day of wrath, a day of trouble and distress, a day of wasteness and desolation, a day of darkness and gloominess, a day of clouds and thick darkness,

1:16    是吹角吶喊的日子，要攻擊堅固城，和高大的城樓。
A day of the trumpet and alarm against the fenced cities, and against the high towers.

1:17    我必使災禍臨到人身上，使他們行走如同瞎眼的，因為得罪了我。他們的血，必倒出如灰塵，他們的肉，必拋棄如糞土。
And I will bring distress upon men, that they shall walk like blind men, because they have sinned against the LORD: and their blood shall be poured out as dust, and their flesh as the dung.

1:18    當耶和華髮怒的日子，他們的金銀不能救他們。他的忿怒如火，必燒滅全地，毀滅這地的一切居民，而且大大的毀滅。
Neither their silver nor their gold shall be able to deliver them in the day of the LORD's wrath; but the whole land shall be devoured by the fire of his jealousy: for he shall make even a speedy riddance of all them that dwell in the land.




舊約 -- 西番雅書(Zephaniah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


2:1    不知羞恥的國民哪，你們應當聚集。趁命令沒有發出，日子過去如風前的糠，
Gather yourselves together, yea, gather together, O nation not desired;

2:2    *耶和華的烈怒未臨到你們，他發怒的日子未到以先，你們應當聚集前來。
Before the decree bring forth, before the day pass as the chaff, before the fierce anger of the LORD come upon you, before the day of the LORD's anger come upon you.

2:3    世上遵守耶和華典章的謙卑人哪，你們都當尋求耶和華。當尋求公義謙卑，或者在耶和華髮怒的日子，可以隱藏起來。
Seek ye the LORD, all ye meek of the earth, which have wrought his judgment; seek righteousness, seek meekness: it may be ye shall be hid in the day of the LORD's anger.

2:4    迦薩必致見棄。亞實基倫必然荒涼。人在正午必趕出亞實突的民。以革倫也被拔出根來。
For Gaza shall be forsaken, and Ashkelon a desolation: they shall drive out Ashdod at the noon day, and Ekron shall be rooted up.

2:5    住沿海之地的基利提族有禍了。迦南，非利士人之地阿，耶和華的話與你反對，說，我必毀滅你，以致無人居住。
Woe unto the inhabitants of the sea coast, the nation of the Cherethites! the word of the LORD is against you; O Canaan, the land of the Philistines, I will even destroy thee, that there shall be no inhabitant.

2:6    沿海之地要變為草場，其上有牧人的住處，和羊群的圈。
And the sea coast shall be dwellings and cottages for shepherds, and folds for flocks.

2:7    這地必為猶大家剩下的人所得。他們必在那裡牧放群羊。晚上必躺臥在亞實基倫的房屋中。因為耶和華他們的神，必眷顧他們，使他們被擄的人歸回。
And the coast shall be for the remnant of the house of Judah; they shall feed thereupon: in the houses of Ashkelon shall they lie down in the evening: for the LORD their God shall visit them, and turn away their captivity.

2:8    我聽見摩押人的毀謗，和亞捫人的辱罵，就是毀謗我的百姓，自誇自大。侵犯他們的境界。
I have heard the reproach of Moab, and the revilings of the children of Ammon, whereby they have reproached my people, and magnified themselves against their border.

2:9    萬軍之耶和華以色列的神說，我指著我的永生起誓，摩押必像所多瑪，亞捫人必像蛾摩拉，都變為刺草，鹽坑，永遠荒廢之地。我百姓所剩下的，必擄掠他們，我國中所餘剩的，必得著他們的地。
Therefore as I live, saith the LORD of hosts, the God of Israel, Surely Moab shall be as Sodom, and the children of Ammon as Gomorrah, even the breeding of nettles, and saltpits, and a perpetual desolation: the residue of my people shall spoil them, and the remnant of my people shall possess them.

2:10    這事臨到他們，是因他們驕傲，自誇自大，毀謗萬軍之耶和華的百姓。
This shall they have for their pride, because they have reproached and magnified themselves against the people of the LORD of hosts.

2:11    耶和華必向他們顯可畏之威。因他必叫世上的諸神瘦弱，列國海島的居民各在自己的地方敬拜他。
The LORD will be terrible unto them: for he will famish all the gods of the earth; and men shall worship him, every one from his place, even all the isles of the heathen.

2:12    古實人哪，你們必被我的刀所殺。
Ye Ethiopians also, ye shall be slain by my sword.

2:13    耶和華必伸手攻擊北方，毀滅亞述，使尼尼微荒涼，又乾旱如曠野。
And he will stretch out his hand against the north, and destroy Assyria; and will make Nineveh a desolation, and dry like a wilderness.

2:14    群畜，就是各國（國或作類）的走獸必臥在其中。鵜鶘和箭豬要宿在柱頂上在窗戶內有嗚叫的聲音。門檻都必毀壞。香柏木已經露出。
And flocks shall lie down in the midst of her, all the beasts of the nations: both the cormorant and the bittern shall lodge in the upper lintels of it; their voice shall sing in the windows; desolation shall be in the thresholds: for he shall uncover the cedar work.

2:15    這是素來歡樂安然居住的城，心裡說，惟有我，除我以外再沒有別的。現在何竟荒涼，成為野獸躺臥之處。凡經過的人都必搖手嗤笑她。
This is the rejoicing city that dwelt carelessly, that said in her heart, I am, and there is none beside me: how is she become a desolation, a place for beasts to lie down in! every one that passeth by her shall hiss, and wag his hand.




舊約 -- 西番雅書(Zephaniah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 3 章 )    　


3:1    這悖逆，汙穢，欺壓的城，有禍了。
Woe to her that is filthy and polluted, to the oppressing city!

3:2    她不聽從命令，不領受訓誨，不倚靠耶和華，不親近她的神。
She obeyed not the voice; she received not correction; she trusted not in the LORD; she drew not near to her God.

3:3    她中間的首領是咆哮的獅子。她的審判官是晚上的豺狼，一點食物也不留到早晨。
Her princes within her are roaring lions; her judges are evening wolves; they gnaw not the bones till the morrow.

3:4    她的先知是虛浮詭詐的人。她的祭司褻瀆聖所，強解律法。
Her prophets are light and treacherous persons: her priests have polluted the sanctuary, they have done violence to the law.

3:5    耶和華在她中間是公義的，斷不做非義的事，每早晨顯明他的公義，無日不然。只是不義的人不知羞恥。
The just LORD is in the midst thereof; he will not do iniquity: every morning doth he bring his judgment to light, he faileth not; but the unjust knoweth no shame.



3:6    我耶和華已經除滅列國的民。他們的城樓毀壞。我使他們的街道荒涼，以致無人經過。他們的城邑毀滅，以致無人，也無居民。
I have cut off the nations: their towers are desolate; I made their streets waste, that none passeth by: their cities are destroyed, so that there is no man, that there is none inhabitant.



3:7    我說，你只要敬畏我，領受訓誨。如此，你的住處，不致照我所擬定的除滅。只是你們從早起來，就在一切事上敗壞自己。
I said, Surely thou wilt fear me, thou wilt receive instruction; so their dwelling should not be cut off, howsoever I punished them: but they rose early, and corrupted all their doings.

3:8    耶和華說，你們要等候我，直到我興起擄掠的日子，因為我已定意招聚列國，聚集列邦，將我的惱怒，就是我的烈怒，都傾在她們身上。我的忿怒如火，必燒滅全地。
Therefore wait ye upon me, saith the LORD, until the day that I rise up to the prey: for my determination is to gather the nations, that I may assemble the kingdoms, to pour upon them mine indignation, even all my fierce anger: for all the earth shall be devoured with the fire of my jealousy.

3:9    那時，我必使萬民用清潔的言語，好求告我耶和華的名，同心合意地事奉我。
For then will I turn to the people a pure language, that they may all call upon the name of the LORD, to serve him with one consent.

3:10    祈禱我的，就是我所分散的民（原文作女子下同），必從古實河外來，給我獻供物。
From beyond the rivers of Ethiopia my suppliants, even the daughter of my dispersed, shall bring mine offering.

3:11    當那日，你必不因你一切得罪我的事，自覺羞愧。因為那時我必從你中間除掉矜誇高傲之輩，你也不再於我的聖山狂傲。
In that day shalt thou not be ashamed for all thy doings, wherein thou hast transgressed against me: for then I will take away out of the midst of thee them that rejoice in thy pride, and thou shalt no more be haughty because of my holy mountain.

3:12    我卻要在你中間，留下困苦貧寒的民。他們必投靠我耶和華的名。
I will also leave in the midst of thee an afflicted and poor people, and they shall trust in the name of the LORD.

3:13    以色列所剩下的人，必不作罪孽，不說謊言，口中也沒有詭詐的舌頭。而且吃喝躺臥，無人驚嚇。
The remnant of Israel shall not do iniquity, nor speak lies; neither shall a deceitful tongue be found in their mouth: for they shall feed and lie down, and none shall make them afraid.

3:14    錫安的民哪，應當歌唱。以色列阿，應當歡呼。耶路撒冷的民哪，應當滿心歡喜快樂。
Sing, O daughter of Zion; shout, O Israel; be glad and rejoice with all the heart, O daughter of Jerusalem.

3:15    耶和華已經除去你的刑罰，趕出你的仇敵。以色列的王耶和華在你中間，你必不再懼怕災禍。
The LORD hath taken away thy judgments, he hath cast out thine enemy: the king of Israel, even the LORD, is in the midst of thee: thou shalt not see evil any more.

3:16    當那日，必有話向耶路撒冷說，不要懼怕。錫安哪，不要手軟。
In that day it shall be said to Jerusalem, Fear thou not: and to Zion, Let not thine hands be slack.

3:17    耶和華你的神，是施行拯救，大有能力的主，他在你中間必因你歡欣喜樂，默然愛你，且因你喜樂而歡呼。
The LORD thy God in the midst of thee is mighty; he will save, he will rejoice over thee with joy; he will rest in his love, he will joy over thee with singing.

3:18    那些屬你，為無大會愁煩，因你擔當羞辱的，我必聚集他們。
I will gather them that are sorrowful for the solemn assembly, who are of thee, to whom the reproach of it was a burden.

3:19    那時，我必罰辦一切苦待你的人，又拯救你瘸腿的。聚集你被趕出的。那些在全地受休辱的，我必使他們得稱讚，有名聲。
Behold, at that time I will undo all that afflict thee: and I will save her that halteth, and gather her that was driven out; and I will get them praise and fame in every land where they have been put to shame.

3:20    那時，我必領你們進來，聚集你們。我使你們被擄之人歸回的時候，就必使你們在地上的萬民中有名聲，得稱讚。這是耶和華說的。
At that time will I bring you again, even in the time that I gather you: for I will make you a name and a praise among all people of the earth, when I turn back your captivity before your eyes, saith the LORD.




