

舊約 -- 哈該書(Haggai) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 2 章 )    　


1:1    大流士王第二年六月初一日，耶和華的話藉先知哈該，向猶大省長撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯和約撒答的兒子大祭司約書亞說，
In the second year of Darius the king, in the sixth month, in the first day of the month, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet unto Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, saying,

1:2    萬軍之耶和華如此說，這百姓說，建造耶和華殿的時候尚未來到。
Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, This people say, The time is not come, the time that the LORD's house should be built.

1:3    那時耶和華的話臨到先知哈該說，
Then came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying,

1:4    這殿仍然荒涼，你們自己還住天花板的房屋嗎。
Is it time for you, O ye, to dwell in your cieled houses, and this house lie waste?

1:5    現在萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們要省察自己的行為。
Now therefore thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.

1:6    你們撒的種多，收的卻少。你們吃，卻不得飽。喝，卻不得足。穿衣服，卻不得暖。得工錢的，將工錢裝在破漏的囊中。
Ye have sown much, and bring in little; ye eat, but ye have not enough; ye drink, but ye are not filled with drink; ye clothe you, but there is none warm; and he that earneth wages earneth wages to put it into a bag with holes.

1:7    萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們要省察自己的行為。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Consider your ways.

1:8    你們要上山取木料，建造這殿。我就因此喜樂，且得榮耀。這是耶和華說的。
Go up to the mountain, and bring wood, and build the house; and I will take pleasure in it, and I will be glorified, saith the LORD.

1:9    你們盼望多得，所得的卻少。你們收到家中，我就吹去。這是為什麼呢，因為我的殿荒涼，你們各人卻顧（原文作奔）自己的房屋。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
Ye looked for much, and lo, it came to little; and when ye brought it home, I did blow upon it. Why? saith the LORD of hosts. Because of mine house that is waste, and ye run every man unto his own house.

1:10    所以為你們的緣故，天就不降甘露，地也不出土產。
Therefore the heaven over you is stayed from dew, and the earth is stayed from her fruit.

1:11    我命乾旱臨到地土，山岡，五穀，新酒，和油，並地上的出產，人民，牲畜，以及人手一切勞碌得來的。
And I called for a drought upon the land, and upon the mountains, and upon the corn, and upon the new wine, and upon the oil, and upon that which the ground bringeth forth, and upon men, and upon cattle, and upon all the labour of the hands.

1:12    那時，撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，和約撒答的兒子大祭司約書亞，並剩下的百姓，都聽從耶和華他們神的話，和先知哈該奉耶和華他們神差來所說的話。百姓也在耶和華面前存敬畏的心。
Then Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, and Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, with all the remnant of the people, obeyed the voice of the LORD their God, and the words of Haggai the prophet, as the LORD their God had sent him, and the people did fear before the LORD.

1:13    耶和華的使者哈該，奉耶和華差遣對百姓說，耶和華說，我與你們同在。
Then spake Haggai the LORD's messenger in the LORD's message unto the people, saying, I am with you, saith the LORD.

1:14    耶和華激動猶大省長撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，和約撒答的兒子大祭司約書亞，並剩下之百姓的心。他們就來為萬軍之耶和華他們神的殿做工。
And the LORD stirred up the spirit of Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and the spirit of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and the spirit of all the remnant of the people; and they came and did work in the house of the LORD of hosts, their God,

1:15    這是在大流士王第二年六月二十四日。
In the four and twentieth day of the sixth month, in the second year of Darius the king.




舊約 -- 哈該書(Haggai) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 2 章 )    　


2:1    七月二十一日，耶和華的話臨到先知哈該說，
In the seventh month, in the one and twentieth day of the month, came the word of the LORD by the prophet Haggai, saying,

2:2    你要曉諭猶大省長撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯，和約撒答的兒子大祭司約書亞。並剩下的百姓，說，
Speak now to Zerubbabel the son of Shealtiel, governor of Judah, and to Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest, and to the residue of the people, saying,

2:3    你們中間存留的，有誰見過這殿從前的榮耀呢。現在你們看著如何。豈不在眼中看如無有嗎。
Who is left among you that saw this house in her first glory? and how do ye see it now? is it not in your eyes in comparison of it as nothing?

2:4    耶和華說，所羅巴伯阿，雖然如此，你當剛強。約撒答的兒子大祭司約書亞阿，你也當剛強。這地的百姓，你們都當剛強做工，因為我與你們同在。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
Yet now be strong, O Zerubbabel, saith the LORD; and be strong, O Joshua, son of Josedech, the high priest; and be strong, all ye people of the land, saith the LORD, and work: for I am with you, saith the LORD of hosts:

2:5    這是照著你們出埃及我與你們立約的話。那時，我的靈住在你們中間。你們不要懼怕。
According to the word that I covenanted with you when ye came out of Egypt, so my spirit remaineth among you: fear ye not.

2:6    萬軍之耶和華如此說，過不多時，我必再一次震動天地，滄海，與旱地。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts; Yet once, it is a little while, and I will shake the heavens, and the earth, and the sea, and the dry land;

2:7    我必震動萬國。萬國的珍寶必都運來（或作萬國所羨慕的必來到），我就使這殿滿了榮耀。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
And I will shake all nations, and the desire of all nations shall come: and I will fill this house with glory, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:8    萬軍之耶和華說，銀子是我的，金子也是我的。
The silver is mine, and the gold is mine, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:9    這殿後來的榮耀，必大過先前的榮耀。在這地方我必賜平安。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
The glory of this latter house shall be greater than of the former, saith the LORD of hosts: and in this place will I give peace, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:10    大流士王第二年，九月二十四日，耶和華的話臨到先知哈該說，
In the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD by Haggai the prophet, saying,

2:11    萬軍之耶和華如此說，你要向祭司問律法，
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Ask now the priests concerning the law, saying,

2:12    說，若有人用衣襟兜聖肉，這衣襟挨著餅，或湯，或酒，或油，或別的食物，便算為聖嗎。祭司說，不算為聖。
If one bear holy flesh in the skirt of his garment, and with his skirt do touch bread, or pottage, or wine, or oil, or any meat, shall it be holy? And the priests answered and said, No.

2:13    哈該又說，若有人因摸死屍染了汙穢，然後挨著這些物的那一樣，這物算汙穢嗎。祭司說，必算汙穢。
Then said Haggai, If one that is unclean by a dead body touch any of these, shall it be unclean? And the priests answered and said, It shall be unclean.

2:14    於是哈該說，耶和華說，這民這國，在我面前也是如此。他們手下的各樣工作，都是如此。他們在壇上所獻的也是如此。
Then answered Haggai, and said, So is this people, and so is this nation before me, saith the LORD; and so is every work of their hands; and that which they offer there is unclean.

2:15    現在你們要追想，此日以前，耶和華的殿，沒有一塊石頭壘在石頭上的光景。
And now, I pray you, consider from this day and upward, from before a stone was laid upon a stone in the temple of the LORD:

2:16    在那一切日子，有人來到谷堆，想得二十鬥，只得了十鬥。有人來到酒池，想得五十桶，只得了二十桶。
Since those days were, when one came to an heap of twenty measures, there were but ten: when one came to the pressfat for to draw out fifty vessels out of the press, there were but twenty.

2:17    在你們手下的各樣工作上，我以旱風，黴爛，冰雹，攻擊你們。你們仍不歸向我。這是耶和華說的。
I smote you with blasting and with mildew and with hail in all the labours of your hands; yet ye turned not to me, saith the LORD.

2:18    你們要追想此日以前，就是從這九月二十四日起，追想到立耶和華殿根基的日子。
Consider now from this day and upward, from the four and twentieth day of the ninth month, even from the day that the foundation of the LORD's temple was laid, consider it.

2:19    倉裡有谷種嗎。葡萄樹，無花果樹，石榴樹，橄欖樹都沒有結果子。從今日起，我必賜福與你們。
Is the seed yet in the barn? yea, as yet the vine, and the fig tree, and the pomegranate, and the olive tree, hath not brought forth: from this day will I bless you.

2:20    這月二十四日，耶和華的話二次臨到哈該說，
And again the word of the LORD came unto Haggai in the four and twentieth day of the month, saying,

2:21    你要告訴猶大省長所羅巴伯說，我必震動天地。
Speak to Zerubbabel, governor of Judah, saying, I will shake the heavens and the earth;

2:22    我必傾覆列國的寶座，除滅列邦的勢力，並傾覆戰車，和坐在其上的。馬必跌倒，騎馬的敗落，各人被弟兄的刀所殺。
And I will overthrow the throne of kingdoms, and I will destroy the strength of the kingdoms of the heathen; and I will overthrow the chariots, and those that ride in them; and the horses and their riders shall come down, every one by the sword of his brother.

2:23    萬軍之耶和華說，我僕人撒拉鐵的兒子所羅巴伯阿，到那日，我必以你為印，因我揀選了你。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, will I take thee, O Zerubbabel, my servant, the son of Shealtiel, saith the LORD, and will make thee as a signet: for I have chosen thee, saith the LORD of hosts.




