


舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


1:1    大流士王第二年八月，耶和華的話臨到易多的孫子，比利家的兒子，先知撒迦利亞，說，
In the eighth month, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD unto Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying,



1:2    耶和華曾向你們列祖大大發怒。
The LORD hath been sore displeased with your fathers.

1:3    所以你要對以色列人說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們要轉向我，我就轉向你們。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
Therefore say thou unto them, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Turn ye unto me, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will turn unto you, saith the LORD of hosts.

1:4    不要效法你們列祖。從前的先知呼叫他們說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們要回頭，離開你們的惡道惡行。他們卻不聽，也不順從我。這是耶和華說的。
Be ye not as your fathers, unto whom the former prophets have cried, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Turn ye now from your evil ways, and from your evil doings: but they did not hear, nor hearken unto me, saith the LORD.

1:5    你們的列祖在哪裡呢。那些先知能永遠存活嗎。
Your fathers, where are they? and the prophets, do they live for ever?

1:6    只是我的言語和律例，就是所吩咐我僕人眾先知的，豈不臨到你們列祖嗎。他們就回頭，說，萬軍之耶和華定意，按我們的行動作為，向我們怎樣行，他已照妖行了。
But my words and my statutes, which I commanded my servants the prophets, did they not take hold of your fathers? and they returned and said, Like as the LORD of hosts thought to do unto us, according to our ways, and according to our doings, so hath he dealt with us.

1:7    大流士第二年十一月，就是細吧特月二十四日，耶和華的話臨到易多的孫子，比利家的兒子先知撒迦利亞，說，
Upon the four and twentieth day of the eleventh month, which is the month Sebat, in the second year of Darius, came the word of the LORD unto Zechariah, the son of Berechiah, the son of Iddo the prophet, saying,

1:8    我夜間觀看，見一人騎著紅馬，站在窪地番石榴樹中間。在他身後又有紅馬，黃馬，和白馬。
I saw by night, and behold a man riding upon a red horse, and he stood among the myrtle trees that were in the bottom; and behind him were there red horses, speckled, and white.

1:9    我對與我說話的天使說，主阿，這是什麼意思。他說，我要指示你這是什麼意思。
Then said I, O my lord, what are these? And the angel that talked with me said unto me, I will shew thee what these be.

1:10    那站在番石榴樹中間的人說，這是奉耶和華差遣，在遍地走來走去的。
And the man that stood among the myrtle trees answered and said, These are they whom the LORD hath sent to walk to and fro through the earth.

1:11    那些騎馬的，對站在番石榴樹中間耶和華的使者說，我們已在遍地走來走去，見全地都安息平靜。
And they answered the angel of the LORD that stood among the myrtle trees, and said, We have walked to and fro through the earth, and, behold, all the earth sitteth still, and is at rest.

1:12    於是，耶和華的使者說，萬軍之耶和華阿，你惱恨耶路撒冷，和猶大的城邑，已經七十年，你不施憐憫要到幾時呢。
Then the angel of the LORD answered and said, O LORD of hosts, how long wilt thou not have mercy on Jerusalem and on the cities of Judah, against which thou hast had indignation these threescore and ten years?

1:13    耶和華就用美善的安慰話，回答那與我說話的天使。
And the LORD answered the angel that talked with me with good words and comfortable words.

1:14    與我說話的天使對我說，你要宣告說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，我為耶路撒冷，為錫安，心裡極其火熱。
So the angel that communed with me said unto me, Cry thou, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; I am jealous for Jerusalem and for Zion with a great jealousy.

1:15    我甚惱怒那安逸的列國。因我從前稍微惱怒我民，他們就加害過分。
And I am very sore displeased with the heathen that are at ease: for I was but a little displeased, and they helped forward the affliction.

1:16    所以耶和華如此說，現今我回到耶路撒冷，仍施憐憫。我的殿必重建在其中，準繩必拉在耶路撒冷之上。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
Therefore thus saith the LORD; I am returned to Jerusalem with mercies: my house shall be built in it, saith the LORD of hosts, and a line shall be stretched forth upon Jerusalem.

1:17    你要再宣告說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，我的城邑必再豐盛發達。耶和華必再安慰錫安，揀選耶路撒冷。
Cry yet, saying, Thus saith the LORD of hosts; My cities through prosperity shall yet be spread abroad; and the LORD shall yet comfort Zion, and shall yet choose Jerusalem.

1:18    我舉目觀看，見有四角。
Then lifted I up mine eyes, and saw, and behold four horns.

1:19    我就問與我說話的天使說，這是什麼意思。他回答說，這是打散猶大，以色列，和耶路撒冷的角。
And I said unto the angel that talked with me, What be these? And he answered me, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, Israel, and Jerusalem.

1:20    耶和華又指四個匠人給我看。
And the LORD shewed me four carpenters.

1:21    我說，他們來做什麼呢。他說，這是打散猶大的角，使人不敢抬頭。但這些匠人來威嚇列國，打掉他們的角，就是舉起打散猶大地的角。
Then said I, What come these to do? And he spake, saying, These are the horns which have scattered Judah, so that no man did lift up his head: but these are come to fray them, to cast out the horns of the Gentiles, which lifted up their horn over the land of Judah to scatter it.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


2:1    我又舉目觀看，見一人手拿準繩。
I lifted up mine eyes again, and looked, and behold a man with a measuring line in his hand.

2:2    我說，你往那裡去。他對我說，要去量耶路撒冷，看有多寬多長。
Then said I, Whither goest thou? And he said unto me, To measure Jerusalem, to see what is the breadth thereof, and what is the length thereof.

2:3    與我說話的天使去的時候，又有一位天使迎著他來，
And, behold, the angel that talked with me went forth, and another angel went out to meet him,

2:4    對他說，你跑去告訴那少年人說，耶路撒冷必有人居住，好像無城牆的鄉村，因為人民和牲畜甚多。
And said unto him, Run, speak to this young man, saying, Jerusalem shall be inhabited as towns without walls for the multitude of men and cattle therein:

2:5    耶和華說，我要作耶路撒冷四圍的火城，並要作其中的榮耀。
For I, saith the LORD, will be unto her a wall of fire round about, and will be the glory in the midst of her.

2:6    耶和華說，我從前分散你們在天的四方。（原文作猶如天的四風），現在你們要從北方之地逃回。這是耶和華說的。
Ho, ho, come forth, and flee from the land of the north, saith the LORD: for I have spread you abroad as the four winds of the heaven, saith the LORD.

2:7    與巴比倫人同住的錫安民哪，應當逃脫。
Deliver thyself, O Zion, that dwellest with the daughter of Babylon.

2:8    萬軍之耶和華說，在顯出榮耀之後，差遣我去懲罰那擄掠你們的列國。摸你們的，就是摸他眼中的瞳人。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts; After the glory hath he sent me unto the nations which spoiled you: for he that toucheth you toucheth the apple of his eye.

2:9    看哪，我（或作他）要向他們掄手，他們就必作服事他們之人的擄物，你們便知道萬軍之耶和華差遣我了。
For, behold, I will shake mine hand upon them, and they shall be a spoil to their servants: and ye shall know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me.

2:10    錫安城阿，應當歡樂歌唱，因為我來要住在你中間。這是耶和華說的。
Sing and rejoice, O daughter of Zion: for, lo, I come, and I will dwell in the midst of thee, saith the LORD.

2:11    那時，必有許多國歸附耶和華，作他（原文作我）的子民。他（原文是我）要住在你中間，你就知道萬軍之耶和華差遣我到你那裡去了。
And many nations shall be joined to the LORD in that day, and shall be my people: and I will dwell in the midst of thee, and thou shalt know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto thee.

2:12    耶和華必收回猶大作他聖地的分，也必再揀選耶路撒冷。
And the LORD shall inherit Judah his portion in the holy land, and shall choose Jerusalem again.

2:13    凡有血氣的，都當在耶和華面前靜默無聲。因為他興起，從聖所出來了。
Be silent, O all flesh, before the LORD: for he is raised up out of his holy habitation.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


3:1    天使（原文作他）又指給我看，大祭司約書亞，站在耶和華的使者面前，撒但也站在約書亞的右邊，與他作對。
And he shewed me Joshua the high priest standing before the angel of the LORD, and Satan standing at his right hand to resist him.

3:2    耶和華向撒但說，撒但哪，耶和華責備你，就是揀選耶路撒冷的耶和華責備你。這不是從火中抽出來的一根柴嗎。
And the LORD said unto Satan, The LORD rebuke thee, O Satan; even the LORD that hath chosen Jerusalem rebuke thee: is not this a brand plucked out of the fire?

3:3    約書亞穿著汙穢的衣服，站在使者面前。
Now Joshua was clothed with filthy garments, and stood before the angel.

3:4    使者吩咐站在面前的說，你們要脫去他汙穢的衣服。又對約書亞說，我使你脫離罪孽，要給你穿上華美的衣服。
And he answered and spake unto those that stood before him, saying, Take away the filthy garments from him. And unto him he said, Behold, I have caused thine iniquity to pass from thee, and I will clothe thee with change of raiment.

3:5    我說，要將潔淨的冠冕戴在他頭上。他們就把潔淨的冠冕戴在他頭上，給他穿上華美的衣服，耶和華的使者在旁邊站立。
And I said, Let them set a fair mitre upon his head. So they set a fair mitre upon his head, and clothed him with garments. And the angel of the LORD stood by.

3:6    耶和華的使者告誡約書亞說，
And the angel of the LORD protested unto Joshua, saying,

3:7    萬軍之耶和華如此說，你若遵行我的道，謹守我的命令，你就可以管理我的家，看守我的院宇。我也要使你在這些站立的人中間來往。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; If thou wilt walk in my ways, and if thou wilt keep my charge, then thou shalt also judge my house, and shalt also keep my courts, and I will give thee places to walk among these that stand by.

3:8    大祭司約書亞阿，你和坐在你面前的同伴都當聽。（他們是作預兆的）。我必使我僕人大衛的苗裔發出。
Hear now, O Joshua the high priest, thou, and thy fellows that sit before thee: for they are men wondered at: for, behold, I will bring forth my servant the BRANCH.

3:9    看哪，我在約書亞面前所立的石頭，在一塊石頭上有七眼。萬軍之耶和華說，我要親自雕刻這石頭，並要在一日之間，除掉這地的罪孽。
For behold the stone that I have laid before Joshua; upon one stone shall be seven eyes: behold, I will engrave the graving thereof, saith the LORD of hosts, and I will remove the iniquity of that land in one day.

3:10    當那日，你們各人要請鄰舍坐在葡萄樹和無花果樹下。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
In that day, saith the LORD of hosts, shall ye call every man his neighbour under the vine and under the fig tree.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


4:1    那與我說話的天使又來叫醒我，好像人睡覺被喚醒一樣。
And the angel that talked with me came again, and waked me, as a man that is wakened out of his sleep,

4:2    他問我說，你看見了什麼。我說，我看見了一個純金的燈臺，頂上有盞燈，燈臺上有七盞燈，每盞有七個管子。
And said unto me, What seest thou? And I said, I have looked, and behold a candlestick all of gold, with a bowl upon the top of it, and his seven lamps thereon, and seven pipes to the seven lamps, which are upon the top thereof:

4:3    旁邊有兩棵橄欖樹，一棵在燈盞的右邊，一棵在燈盞的左邊。
And two olive trees by it, one upon the right side of the bowl, and the other upon the left side thereof.

4:4    我問與我說話的天使說，主阿，這是什麼意思。
So I answered and spake to the angel that talked with me, saying, What are these, my lord?

4:5    與我說話的天使回答我說，你不知道這是什麼意思嗎。我說，主阿，我不知道。
Then the angel that talked with me answered and said unto me, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my lord.

4:6    他對我說，這是耶和華指示所羅巴伯的。萬軍之耶和華說，不是倚靠勢力，不是倚靠才能，乃是倚靠我的靈，方能成事。
Then he answered and spake unto me, saying, This is the word of the LORD unto Zerubbabel, saying, Not by might, nor by power, but by my spirit, saith the LORD of hosts.

4:7    大山哪，你算什麼呢。在所羅巴伯面前，你必成為平地。他必搬出一塊石頭，安在殿頂上。人且大聲歡呼，說，願恩惠恩惠歸與這殿（殿或作石）。
Who art thou, O great mountain? before Zerubbabel thou shalt become a plain: and he shall bring forth the headstone thereof with shoutings, crying, Grace, grace unto it.

4:8    耶和華的話又臨到我說，
Moreover the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

4:9    所羅巴伯的手，立了這殿的根基。他的手也必完成這工。你就知道萬軍之耶和華差遣我到你們這裡來了。
The hands of Zerubbabel have laid the foundation of this house; his hands shall also finish it; and thou shalt know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto you.

4:10    誰藐視這日的事為小呢。這七眼乃是耶和華的眼睛，遍察全地，見所羅巴伯手拿線鉈就歡喜。
For who hath despised the day of small things? for they shall rejoice, and shall see the plummet in the hand of Zerubbabel with those seven; they are the eyes of the LORD, which run to and fro through the whole earth.

4:11    我又問天使說，這燈臺左右的兩棵橄欖樹，是什麼意思。
Then answered I, and said unto him, What are these two olive trees upon the right side of the candlestick and upon the left side thereof?

4:12    我二次問他說，這兩根橄欖枝，在兩個流出金色油的金嘴旁邊，是什麼意思。
And I answered again, and said unto him, What be these two olive branches which through the two golden pipes empty the golden oil out of themselves?

4:13    他對我說，你不知道這是什麼意思嗎。我說，主阿，我不知道。
And he answered me and said, Knowest thou not what these be? And I said, No, my lord.

4:14    他說，這是兩個受膏者，站在普天下主的旁邊。
Then said he, These are the two anointed ones, that stand by the LORD of the whole earth.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 5 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


5:1    我又舉目觀看，見有一飛行的書卷。
Then I turned, and lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and behold a flying roll.

5:2    他問我說，你看見什麼。我回答說，我看見一飛行的書卷，長二十肘。寬十肘。
And he said unto me, What seest thou? And I answered, I see a flying roll; the length thereof is twenty cubits, and the breadth thereof ten cubits.

5:3    他對我說，這是發出行在遍地上的咒詛。凡偷竊的必按捲上這面的話除滅。凡起假誓的必按捲上那面的話除滅。
Then said he unto me, This is the curse that goeth forth over the face of the whole earth: for every one that stealeth shall be cut off as on this side according to it; and every one that sweareth shall be cut off as on that side according to it.

5:4    萬軍之耶和華說，我必使這書卷出去，進入偷竊人的家，和指我名起假誓人的家，必常在他家裡，連房屋帶木石都毀滅了。
I will bring it forth, saith the LORD of hosts, and it shall enter into the house of the thief, and into the house of him that sweareth falsely by my name: and it shall remain in the midst of his house, and shall consume it with the timber thereof and the stones thereof.

5:5    與我說話的天使出來，對我說，你要舉目觀看，見所出來的是什麼。
Then the angel that talked with me went forth, and said unto me, Lift up now thine eyes, and see what is this that goeth forth.

5:6    我說，這是什麼呢。他說，這出來的是量器。他又說，這是惡人，在遍地的形狀。
And I said, What is it? And he said, This is an ephah that goeth forth. He said moreover, This is their resemblance through all the earth.

5:7    （我見有一片圓鉛被舉起來）這坐在量器中的是個婦人。
And, behold, there was lifted up a talent of lead: and this is a woman that sitteth in the midst of the ephah.

5:8    天使說，這是罪惡。他就把婦人扔在量器中，將那片圓鉛扔在量器的口上。
And he said, This is wickedness. And he cast it into the midst of the ephah; and he cast the weight of lead upon the mouth thereof.

5:9    我又舉目觀看，見有兩個婦人出來，在她們翅膀中有風，飛得甚快。翅膀如同鸛鳥的翅膀。她們將量器抬起來，懸在天地中間。
Then lifted I up mine eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came out two women, and the wind was in their wings; for they had wings like the wings of a stork: and they lifted up the ephah between the earth and the heaven.

5:10    我問與我說話的天使說，她們要將量器抬到哪裡去呢。
Then said I to the angel that talked with me, Whither do these bear the ephah?

5:11    他對我說，要往示拿地去，為它蓋造房屋。等房屋齊備，就把它安置在自己的地方。
And he said unto me, To build it an house in the land of Shinar: and it shall be established, and set there upon her own base.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 6 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


6:1    我又舉目觀看，見有四輛車從兩山中間出來。那山是銅山。
And I turned, and lifted up mine eyes, and looked, and, behold, there came four chariots out from between two mountains; and the mountains were mountains of brass.

6:2    第一輛車套著紅馬，第二輛車套著黑馬。
In the first chariot were red horses; and in the second chariot black horses;

6:3    第三輛車套著白馬，第四輛車套著有斑點的壯馬。
And in the third chariot white horses; and in the fourth chariot grisled and bay horses.

6:4    我就問與我說話的天使說，主阿，這是什麼意思。
Then I answered and said unto the angel that talked with me, What are these, my lord?

6:5    天使回答我說，這是天的四風，是從普天下的主面前出來的。
And the angel answered and said unto me, These are the four spirits of the heavens, which go forth from standing before the LORD of all the earth.

6:6    套著黑馬的車往北方去，白馬跟隨在後。有斑點的馬往南方去。
The black horses which are therein go forth into the north country; and the white go forth after them; and the grisled go forth toward the south country.

6:7    壯馬出來，要在遍地走來走去。天使說，你們只管在遍地走來走去。它們就照樣行了。
And the bay went forth, and sought to go that they might walk to and fro through the earth: and he said, Get you hence, walk to and fro through the earth. So they walked to and fro through the earth.

6:8    他又呼叫我說，看哪，往北方去的，已在北方安慰我的心。
Then cried he upon me, and spake unto me, saying, Behold, these that go toward the north country have quieted my spirit in the north country.

6:9    耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD came unto me, saying,

6:10    你要從被擄之人中取黑玳，多比雅，耶大雅的金銀。這三人是從巴比倫來到西番雅的兒子約西亞的家裡。當日你要進他的家，
Take of them of the captivity, even of Heldai, of Tobijah, and of Jedaiah, which are come from Babylon, and come thou the same day, and go into the house of Josiah the son of Zephaniah;

6:11    取這金銀做冠冕，戴在約撒答的兒子，大祭司約書亞的頭上。
Then take silver and gold, and make crowns, and set them upon the head of Joshua the son of Josedech, the high priest;

6:12    對他說，萬軍之耶和華如此說，看哪，那名稱為（大衛苗裔的，他要在本處長起來。並要建造耶和華的殿。
And speak unto him, saying, Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Behold the man whose name is The BRANCH; and he shall grow up out of his place, and he shall build the temple of the LORD:

6:13    他要建造耶和華的殿，並擔負尊榮，坐在位上掌王權。又必在位上作祭司，使兩職之間籌定和平。
Even he shall build the temple of the LORD; and he shall bear the glory, and shall sit and rule upon his throne; and he shall be a priest upon his throne: and the counsel of peace shall be between them both.

6:14    這冠冕要歸希連（就是黑玳），多比雅，耶大雅，和西番雅的兒子賢（賢就是約西亞），放在耶和華的殿裡為記念。
And the crowns shall be to Helem, and to Tobijah, and to Jedaiah, and to Hen the son of Zephaniah, for a memorial in the temple of the LORD.

6:15    遠方的人也要來建造耶和華的殿。你們就知道萬軍之耶和華差遣我，到你們這裡來。你們若留意聽從耶和華你們神的話，這事必然成就。
And they that are far off shall come and build in the temple of the LORD, and ye shall know that the LORD of hosts hath sent me unto you. And this shall come to pass, if ye will diligently obey the voice of the LORD your God.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 7 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


7:1    大流士王第四年九月，就是基斯流月初四日，耶和華的話臨到撒迦利亞。
And it came to pass in the fourth year of king Darius, that the word of the LORD came unto Zechariah in the fourth day of the ninth month, even in Chisleu;

7:2    那時伯特利人已經打發沙利色和利堅米勒，並跟從他們的人，去懇求耶和華的恩，
When they had sent unto the house of God Sherezer and Regemmelech, and their men, to pray before the LORD,

7:3    並問萬軍之耶和華殿中的祭司，和先知說，我歷年以來，在五月間哭泣齋戒，現在還當這樣行嗎。
And to speak unto the priests which were in the house of the LORD of hosts, and to the prophets, saying, Should I weep in the fifth month, separating myself, as I have done these so many years?

7:4    萬軍之耶和華的話就臨到我說，
Then came the word of the LORD of hosts unto me, saying,

7:5    你要宣告國內的眾民，和祭司，說，你們這七十年在五月，七月禁食悲哀，豈是絲毫向我禁食嗎。
Speak unto all the people of the land, and to the priests, saying, When ye fasted and mourned in the fifth and seventh month, even those seventy years, did ye at all fast unto me, even to me?

7:6    你們吃喝，不是為自己吃，為自己喝嗎。
And when ye did eat, and when ye did drink, did not ye eat for yourselves, and drink for yourselves?

7:7    當耶路撒冷和四圍的城邑有居民，正興盛，南地高原有人居住的時候，耶和華藉從前的先知所宣告的話，你們不當聽嗎。
Should ye not hear the words which the LORD hath cried by the former prophets, when Jerusalem was inhabited and in prosperity, and the cities thereof round about her, when men inhabited the south and the plain?

7:8    耶和華的話又臨到撒迦利亞說，
And the word of the LORD came unto Zechariah, saying,

7:9    萬軍之耶和華曾對你們的列祖如此說，要按至理判斷，各人以慈愛憐憫弟兄。
Thus speaketh the LORD of hosts, saying, Execute true judgment, and shew mercy and compassions every man to his brother:

7:10    不可欺壓寡婦，孤兒，寄居的，和貧窮人。誰都不可心裡謀害弟兄。
And oppress not the widow, nor the fatherless, the stranger, nor the poor; and let none of you imagine evil against his brother in your heart.

7:11    他們卻不肯聽從，扭轉肩頭，塞耳不聽。
But they refused to hearken, and pulled away the shoulder, and stopped their ears, that they should not hear.

7:12    使心硬如金鋼石，不聽律法，和萬君之耶和華用靈藉從前的先知所說的話。故此，萬君之耶和華大發烈怒。
Yea, they made their hearts as an adamant stone, lest they should hear the law, and the words which the LORD of hosts hath sent in his spirit by the former prophets: therefore came a great wrath from the LORD of hosts.

7:13    萬軍之耶和華說，我曾呼喚他們，他們不聽。將來他們呼求我，我也不聽。
Therefore it is come to pass, that as he cried, and they would not hear; so they cried, and I would not hear, saith the LORD of hosts:

7:14    我必以旋風吹散他們到素不認識的萬國中。這樣，他們的地就荒涼，甚至無人來往經過。因為他們使美好之地荒涼了。
But I scattered them with a whirlwind among all the nations whom they knew not. Thus the land was desolate after them, that no man passed through nor returned: for they laid the pleasant land desolate.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 8 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


8:1    萬軍之耶和華的話臨到我說，
Again the word of the LORD of hosts came to me, saying,

8:2    萬軍之耶和華如此說，我為錫安心裡極其火熱。我為她火熱，向她的仇敵發烈怒。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; I was jealous for Zion with great jealousy, and I was jealous for her with great fury.

8:3    耶和華如此說，我現在回到錫安，要住在耶路撒冷中。耶路撒冷必稱為誠實的城，萬軍之耶和華的山必稱為聖山。
Thus saith the LORD; I am returned unto Zion, and will dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and Jerusalem shall be called a city of truth; and the mountain of the LORD of hosts the holy mountain.

8:4    萬軍之耶和華如此說，將來必有年老的男女，坐在耶路撒冷街上。因為年紀老邁就手拿柺杖。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; There shall yet old men and old women dwell in the streets of Jerusalem, and every man with his staff in his hand for very age.

8:5    城中街上必滿有男孩女孩玩耍。
And the streets of the city shall be full of boys and girls playing in the streets thereof.

8:6    萬軍之耶和華如此說，到那日，這事在餘剩的民眼中看為希奇，在我眼中也看為希奇嗎。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; If it be marvellous in the eyes of the remnant of this people in these days, should it also be marvellous in mine eyes? saith the LORD of hosts.

8:7    萬軍之耶和華如此說，我要從東方從西方救回我的民。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Behold, I will save my people from the east country, and from the west country;

8:8    我要領他們來，使他們住在耶路撒冷中。他們要作我的子民，我要作他們的神，都憑誠實和公義。
And I will bring them, and they shall dwell in the midst of Jerusalem: and they shall be my people, and I will be their God, in truth and in righteousness.

8:9    萬軍之耶和華如此說，當建造萬軍之耶和華的殿，立根基之日的先知所說的話，現在你們聽見，應當手裡強壯。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; Let your hands be strong, ye that hear in these days these words by the mouth of the prophets, which were in the day that the foundation of the house of the LORD of hosts was laid, that the temple might be built.

8:10    那日以先，人得不著僱價，牲畜也是如此。且因敵人的緣故，出入之人，不得平安。乃因我使眾人互相攻擊。
For before these days there was no hire for man, nor any hire for beast; neither was there any peace to him that went out or came in because of the affliction: for I set all men every one against his neighbour.

8:11    但如今，我待這餘剩的民必不像從前。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
But now I will not be unto the residue of this people as in the former days, saith the LORD of hosts.

8:12    因為他們必平安撒種。葡萄樹必結果子，地土必有出產，天也必降甘露。我要使這餘剩的民，享受這一切的福。
For the seed shall be prosperous; the vine shall give her fruit, and the ground shall give her increase, and the heavens shall give their dew; and I will cause the remnant of this people to possess all these things.

8:13    猶大家和以色列家阿，你們從前在列國中，怎樣成為可咒詛的，照樣，我要拯救你們，使人稱你們為有福的（或作使你們叫人得福）。你們不要懼怕，手要強壯。
And it shall come to pass, that as ye were a curse among the heathen, O house of Judah, and house of Israel; so will I save you, and ye shall be a blessing: fear not, but let your hands be strong.

8:14    萬軍之耶和華如此說，你們列祖惹我發怒的時候，我怎樣定意降禍，並不後悔。
For thus saith the LORD of hosts; As I thought to punish you, when your fathers provoked me to wrath, saith the LORD of hosts, and I repented not:

8:15    現在我照樣定意施恩與耶路撒冷和猶大家，你們不要懼怕。
So again have I thought in these days to do well unto Jerusalem and to the house of Judah: fear ye not.

8:16    你們所當行的是這樣，各人與鄰舍說話誠實，在城門口按至理判斷，使人和睦。
These are the things that ye shall do; Speak ye every man the truth to his neighbour; execute the judgment of truth and peace in your gates:

8:17    誰都不可心裡謀害鄰舍，也不可喜愛起假誓。因為這些事都為我所恨惡。這是耶和華說的。
And let none of you imagine evil in your hearts against his neighbour; and love no false oath: for all these are things that I hate, saith the LORD.

8:18    萬軍之耶和華的話臨到我說，
And the word of the LORD of hosts came unto me, saying,

8:19    萬軍之耶和華如此說，四月⑽逶陸食的日子，七月⑹月禁食的日子，必變為猶大家歡喜快樂的日子，和歡樂的節期。所以你們要喜愛誠實與和平。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; The fast of the fourth month, and the fast of the fifth, and the fast of the seventh, and the fast of the tenth, shall be to the house of Judah joy and gladness, and cheerful feasts; therefore love the truth and peace.

8:20    萬軍之耶和華如此說，將來必有列國的人，和多城的居民來到。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; It shall yet come to pass, that there shall come people, and the inhabitants of many cities:

8:21    這城的居民必到那城，說，我們要快去懇求耶和華的恩，尋求萬軍之耶和華。我也要去。
And the inhabitants of one city shall go to another, saying, Let us go speedily to pray before the LORD, and to seek the LORD of hosts: I will go also.

8:22    必有列邦的人，和強國的民，來到耶路撒冷，尋求萬軍之耶和華。懇求耶和華的恩。
Yea, many people and strong nations shall come to seek the LORD of hosts in Jerusalem, and to pray before the LORD.

8:23    萬軍之耶和華如此說，在那些日子，必有十個人從列國諸族（原文作方言）中出來，拉住一個猶大人的衣襟，說，我們要與你們同去，因為我們聽見神與你們同在了。
Thus saith the LORD of hosts; In those days it shall come to pass, that ten men shall take hold out of all languages of the nations, even shall take hold of the skirt of him that is a Jew, saying, We will go with you: for we have heard that God is with you.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 9 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


9:1    耶和華的默示應驗在哈得拉地，大馬士革（世人和以色列各支派的眼目都仰望耶和華）。
The burden of the word of the LORD in the land of Hadrach, and Damascus shall be the rest thereof: when the eyes of man, as of all the tribes of Israel, shall be toward the LORD.

9:2    和靠近的哈馬，並推羅，西頓，因為這二城的人大有智慧。
And Hamath also shall border thereby; Tyrus, and Zidon, though it be very wise.

9:3    推羅為自己修築保障，積蓄銀子如塵沙，堆起精金如街上的泥土。
And Tyrus did build herself a strong hold, and heaped up silver as the dust, and fine gold as the mire of the streets.

9:4    主必趕出她，打敗她海上的權利。她必被火燒滅。
Behold, the LORD will cast her out, and he will smite her power in the sea; and she shall be devoured with fire.

9:5    亞實基倫看見必懼怕。迦薩看見甚痛苦。以革倫因失了盼望蒙羞。迦薩必不再有君王。亞實基倫也不再有居民。
Ashkelon shall see it, and fear; Gaza also shall see it, and be very sorrowful, and Ekron; for her expectation shall be ashamed; and the king shall perish from Gaza, and Ashkelon shall not be inhabited.

9:6    私生子（或作外族人）必住在亞實突。我必除滅非利士人的驕傲。
And a bastard shall dwell in Ashdod, and I will cut off the pride of the Philistines.

9:7    我必除去他口中帶血之肉，和牙齒內可憎之物。他必作為餘剩的人歸與我們的神，必在猶大像族長，以革倫人必如耶布斯人。
And I will take away his blood out of his mouth, and his abominations from between his teeth: but he that remaineth, even he, shall be for our God, and he shall be as a governor in Judah, and Ekron as a Jebusite.

9:8    我必在我家的四圍安營，使敵軍不得任意往來。暴虐的人也不再經過，因為我親眼看顧我的家。
And I will encamp about mine house because of the army, because of him that passeth by, and because of him that returneth: and no oppressor shall pass through them any more: for now have I seen with mine eyes.

9:9    錫安的民哪，應當大大喜樂。耶路撒冷的民哪，應當歡呼。看哪，你的王來到你這裡。他是公義的，並且施行拯救，謙謙和和地騎著驢，就是騎著驢的駒子。
Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion; shout, O daughter of Jerusalem: behold, thy King cometh unto thee: he is just, and having salvation; lowly, and riding upon an ass, and upon a colt the foal of an ass.

9:10    我必除滅以法蓮的戰車，和耶路撒冷的戰馬。爭戰的弓也必除滅。他必向列國講和平。他權柄必從這海管到那海，從大河管到地極。
And I will cut off the chariot from Ephraim, and the horse from Jerusalem, and the battle bow shall be cut off: and he shall speak peace unto the heathen: and his dominion shall be from sea even to sea, and from the river even to the ends of the earth.

9:11    錫安哪，我因與你立約的血，將你中間被擄而囚的人，從無水的坑中釋放出來。
As for thee also, by the blood of thy covenant I have sent forth thy prisoners out of the pit wherein is no water.

9:12    你們被囚而有指望的人，都要轉回保障。我今日說明，我必加倍賜福給你們。
Turn you to the strong hold, ye prisoners of hope: even to day do I declare that I will render double unto thee;

9:13    我拿猶大作上弦的弓，我拿以法蓮為張弓的箭。錫安哪，我要激發你的眾子，攻擊希臘（原文作雅完）的眾子，使你如勇士的刀。
When I have bent Judah for me, filled the bow with Ephraim, and raised up thy sons, O Zion, against thy sons, O Greece, and made thee as the sword of a mighty man.

9:14    耶和華必顯現在他們以上。他的箭必射出像閃電。主耶和華必吹角，乘南方的旋風而行。
And the LORD shall be seen over them, and his arrow shall go forth as the lightning: and the LORD God shall blow the trumpet, and shall go with whirlwinds of the south.

9:15    萬軍之耶和華必保護他們。他們必吞滅仇敵，踐踏彈石。他們必喝血吶喊，猶如飲酒。他們必像盛滿血的碗，又像壇的四角滿了血。
The LORD of hosts shall defend them; and they shall devour, and subdue with sling stones; and they shall drink, and make a noise as through wine; and they shall be filled like bowls, and as the corners of the altar.

9:16    當那日，耶和華他們的神必看他的民，如群羊拯救他們。因為他們必像冠冕上的寶石，高舉在他的地以上（高舉云云或作在他的地上發光輝）。
And the LORD their God shall save them in that day as the flock of his people: for they shall be as the stones of a crown, lifted up as an ensign upon his land.

9:17    他的恩慈何等大，他的榮美何其盛。五穀健壯少男，新酒培養處女。
For how great is his goodness, and how great is his beauty! corn shall make the young men cheerful, and new wine the maids.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 10 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


10:1    當春雨的時候，你們要向發閃電的耶和華求雨。他必為眾人降下甘霖，使田園生長菜蔬。
Ask ye of the LORD rain in the time of the latter rain; so the LORD shall make bright clouds, and give them showers of rain, to every one grass in the field.

10:2    因為，家神所言的是虛空，卜士所見的是虛假，做夢者所說的是假夢。他們白白地安慰人。所以眾人如羊流離，因無牧人就受苦。
For the idols have spoken vanity, and the diviners have seen a lie, and have told false dreams; they comfort in vain: therefore they went their way as a flock, they were troubled, because there was no shepherd.

10:3    我的怒氣向牧人發作，我必懲罰公山羊。因我萬軍之耶和華眷顧自己的羊群，就是猶大家，必使他們如駿馬在陣上。
Mine anger was kindled against the shepherds, and I punished the goats: for the LORD of hosts hath visited his flock the house of Judah, and hath made them as his goodly horse in the battle.

10:4    房角石，釘子，爭戰的弓，和一切掌權的都從他而出。
Out of him came forth the corner, out of him the nail, out of him the battle bow, out of him every oppressor together.

10:5    他們必如勇士，在陣上將仇敵踐踏在街上的泥土中。他們必爭戰，因為耶和華與他們同在。騎馬的也必羞愧。
And they shall be as mighty men, which tread down their enemies in the mire of the streets in the battle: and they shall fight, because the LORD is with them, and the riders on horses shall be confounded.

10:6    我要堅固猶大家，拯救約瑟家，要領他們歸回。我要憐恤他們，他們必像未曾棄絕的一樣。都因我是耶和華他們的神，我必應允他們的禱告。
And I will strengthen the house of Judah, and I will save the house of Joseph, and I will bring them again to place them; for I have mercy upon them: and they shall be as though I had not cast them off: for I am the LORD their God, and will hear them.

10:7    以法蓮人必如勇士，他們心中暢快如同喝酒。他們的兒女必看見而快活。他們的心必因耶和華喜樂。
And they of Ephraim shall be like a mighty man, and their heart shall rejoice as through wine: yea, their children shall see it, and be glad; their heart shall rejoice in the LORD.

10:8    我要發嘶聲，聚集他們。因我已經救贖他們。他們的人數必加增，如從前加增一樣。
I will hiss for them, and gather them; for I have redeemed them: and they shall increase as they have increased.

10:9    我雖然（或作必）播散他們在列國中，他們必在遠方記念我。他們與兒女都必存活，且得歸回。
And I will sow them among the people: and they shall remember me in far countries; and they shall live with their children, and turn again.

10:10    我必再領他們出埃及地，招聚他們出亞述，領他們到基列和黎巴嫩，這地尚且不夠他們居住。
I will bring them again also out of the land of Egypt, and gather them out of Assyria; and I will bring them into the land of Gilead and Lebanon; and place shall not be found for them.

10:11    耶和華必經過苦海，擊打海浪，使尼羅河的深處都枯乾。亞述的驕傲必致卑微。埃及的權柄必然滅沒。
And he shall pass through the sea with affliction, and shall smite the waves in the sea, and all the deeps of the river shall dry up: and the pride of Assyria shall be brought down, and the sceptre of Egypt shall depart away.

10:12    我必使他們倚靠我，得以堅固。一舉一動必奉我的名。這是耶和華說的。
And I will strengthen them in the LORD; and they shall walk up and down in his name, saith the LORD.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 11 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


11:1    黎巴嫩哪，開開你的門，任火燒滅你的香柏樹。
Open thy doors, O Lebanon, that the fire may devour thy cedars.

11:2    松樹阿，應當哀號，因為香柏樹傾倒，佳美的樹毀壞。巴珊的橡樹阿，應當哀號，因為茂盛的樹林已經倒了。
Howl, fir tree; for the cedar is fallen; because the mighty are spoiled: howl, O ye oaks of Bashan; for the forest of the vintage is come down.

11:3    聽阿，有牧人哀號的聲音，因他們榮華的草場毀壞了。有少壯獅子咆哮的聲音，因約旦河旁的叢林荒廢了。
There is a voice of the howling of the shepherds; for their glory is spoiled: a voice of the roaring of young lions; for the pride of Jordan is spoiled.

11:4    耶和華我的神如此說，你撒迦利亞要牧養這將宰的群羊。
Thus saith the LORD my God; Feed the flock of the slaughter;

11:5    買他們的宰了他們，以自己為無罪。賣他們的說，耶和華是應當稱頌的，因我成為富足。牧養他們的並不憐恤他們。
Whose possessors slay them, and hold themselves not guilty: and they that sell them say, Blessed be the LORD; for I am rich: and their own shepherds pity them not.

11:6    耶和華說，我不再憐恤這地的居民。必將這民交給各人的鄰舍，和他們王的手中。他們必毀滅這地，我也不救這民脫離他們的手。
For I will no more pity the inhabitants of the land, saith the LORD: but, lo, I will deliver the men every one into his neighbour's hand, and into the hand of his king: and they shall smite the land, and out of their hand I will not deliver them.

11:7    於是，我牧養這將宰的群羊，就是群中最困苦的羊。我拿著兩根杖。一根我稱為榮美，一根我稱為聯索。這樣，我牧養了群羊。
And I will feed the flock of slaughter, even you, O poor of the flock. And I took unto me two staves; the one I called Beauty, and the other I called Bands; and I fed the flock.

11:8    一月之內，我除滅三個牧人。因為我的心厭煩他們，他們的心也憎嫌我。
Three shepherds also I cut off in one month; and my soul lothed them, and their soul also abhorred me.

11:9    我就說，我不牧養你們。要死的，由他死。要喪亡的，由他喪亡。餘剩的，由他們彼此相食。
Then said I, I will not feed you: that that dieth, let it die; and that that is to be cut off, let it be cut off; and let the rest eat every one the flesh of another.

11:10    我折斷那稱為榮美的杖，表明我廢棄與萬民所立的約。
And I took my staff, even Beauty, and cut it asunder, that I might break my covenant which I had made with all the people.

11:11    當日就廢棄了。這樣，那些仰望我的困苦羊，就知道所說的是耶和華的話。
And it was broken in that day: and so the poor of the flock that waited upon me knew that it was the word of the LORD.

11:12    我對他們說，你們若以為美，就給我工價，不然，就吧了。於是他們給了三十塊錢，作為我的工價。
And I said unto them, If ye think good, give me my price; and if not, forbear. So they weighed for my price thirty pieces of silver.

11:13    耶和華吩咐我說，要把眾人所估定美好的價值，丟給窯戶。我便將這三十塊錢，在耶和華的殿中丟給窯戶了。
And the LORD said unto me, Cast it unto the potter: a goodly price that I was prised at of them. And I took the thirty pieces of silver, and cast them to the potter in the house of the LORD.

11:14    我又折斷稱為聯索的那根杖，表明我廢棄猶大與以色列弟兄的情誼。
Then I cut asunder mine other staff, even Bands, that I might break the brotherhood between Judah and Israel.

11:15    耶和華又吩咐我說，你再取愚昧人所用的器具。
And the LORD said unto me, Take unto thee yet the instruments of a foolish shepherd.

11:16    因我要在這地興起一個牧人。他不看顧喪亡的，不尋梢分散的，不醫治受傷的，也不牧養強壯的。卻要吃肥羊的肉，撕裂它的蹄子。
For, lo, I will raise up a shepherd in the land, which shall not visit those that be cut off, neither shall seek the young one, nor heal that that is broken, nor feed that that standeth still: but he shall eat the flesh of the fat, and tear their claws in pieces.

11:17    無用的牧人丟棄羊群有禍了。刀必臨到他的膀臂，和右眼上。他的膀臂必全然枯乾，他的右眼也必昏暗失明。
Woe to the idol shepherd that leaveth the flock! the sword shall be upon his arm, and upon his right eye: his arm shall be clean dried up, and his right eye shall be utterly darkened.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 12 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


12:1    耶和華論以色列的默示。鋪張諸天，建立地基，造人裡面之靈的耶和華說。
The burden of the word of the LORD for Israel, saith the LORD, which stretcheth forth the heavens, and layeth the foundation of the earth, and formeth the spirit of man within him.

12:2    我必使耶路撒冷被圍困的時候，向四圍列國的民成為令人昏醉的杯，這默示也論到猶大（或作猶大也是如此）。
Behold, I will make Jerusalem a cup of trembling unto all the people round about, when they shall be in the siege both against Judah and against Jerusalem.

12:3    那日，我必使耶路撒冷向聚集攻擊他的萬民，當作一塊重石頭。凡舉起的必受重傷。
And in that day will I make Jerusalem a burdensome stone for all people: all that burden themselves with it shall be cut in pieces, though all the people of the earth be gathered together against it.

12:4    耶和華說，到那日，我必使一切馬匹驚惶，使騎馬的顛狂。我必看顧猶大家，使列國的一切馬匹瞎眼。
In that day, saith the LORD, I will smite every horse with astonishment, and his rider with madness: and I will open mine eyes upon the house of Judah, and will smite every horse of the people with blindness.

12:5    猶大的族長，必心裡說，耶路撒冷的居民，倚靠萬軍之耶和華他們的神，就作我們的能力。
And the governors of Judah shall say in their heart, The inhabitants of Jerusalem shall be my strength in the LORD of hosts their God.

12:6    那日，我必使猶大的族長，如火盆在木柴中，又如火把在禾捆裡。他們必左右燒滅四圍列國的民。耶路撒冷人必仍住本處，就是耶路撒冷。
In that day will I make the governors of Judah like an hearth of fire among the wood, and like a torch of fire in a sheaf; and they shall devour all the people round about, on the right hand and on the left: and Jerusalem shall be inhabited again in her own place, even in Jerusalem.

12:7    耶和華必先拯救猶大的帳棚，免得大衛家的榮耀，和耶路撒冷居民的榮耀，勝過猶大。
The LORD also shall save the tents of Judah first, that the glory of the house of David and the glory of the inhabitants of Jerusalem do not magnify themselves against Judah.

12:8    那日，耶和華必保護耶路撒冷的居民。他們中間軟弱的，必如大衛。大衛的家，必如神，如行在他們前面之耶和華的使者。
In that day shall the LORD defend the inhabitants of Jerusalem; and he that is feeble among them at that day shall be as David; and the house of David shall be as God, as the angel of the LORD before them.

12:9    那日，我必定意滅絕來攻擊耶路撒冷各國的民。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that I will seek to destroy all the nations that come against Jerusalem.

12:10    我必將那施恩叫人懇求的靈，澆灌大衛家，和耶路撒冷的居民。他們必仰望我，或作他本節同就是他們所扎的。必為我悲哀，如喪獨生子，又為我愁苦，如喪長子。
And I will pour upon the house of David, and upon the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the spirit of grace and of supplications: and they shall look upon me whom they have pierced, and they shall mourn for him, as one mourneth for his only son, and shall be in bitterness for him, as one that is in bitterness for his firstborn.

12:11    那日，耶路撒冷必有大大的悲哀，如米吉多平原之哈達臨門的悲哀。
In that day shall there be a great mourning in Jerusalem, as the mourning of Hadadrimmon in the valley of Megiddon.

12:12    境內，一家一家地都必悲哀。大衛家，男的獨在一處，女的獨在一處。拿單家，男的獨在一處，女的獨在一處。
And the land shall mourn, every family apart; the family of the house of David apart, and their wives apart; the family of the house of Nathan apart, and their wives apart;

12:13    利未家，男的獨在一處，女的獨在一處。示每家，男的獨在一處，女的獨在一處。
The family of the house of Levi apart, and their wives apart; the family of Shimei apart, and their wives apart;

12:14    其餘的各家，男的獨在一處，女的獨在一處。
All the families that remain, every family apart, and their wives apart.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 13 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


13:1    那日，必給大衛家和耶路撒冷的居民，開一個泉源，洗除罪惡與汙穢。
In that day there shall be a fountain opened to the house of David and to the inhabitants of Jerusalem for sin and for uncleanness.

13:2    萬軍之耶和華說，那日，我必從地上除滅偶像的名，不再被人記念。也必使這地不再有假先知與汙穢的靈。
And it shall come to pass in that day, saith the LORD of hosts, that I will cut off the names of the idols out of the land, and they shall no more be remembered: and also I will cause the prophets and the unclean spirit to pass out of the land.

13:3    若再有人說預言，生他的父母必對他說，你不得存活，因為你託耶和華的名說假預言。生他的父母在他說預言的時候，要將他刺透。
And it shall come to pass, that when any shall yet prophesy, then his father and his mother that begat him shall say unto him, Thou shalt not live; for thou speakest lies in the name of the LORD: and his father and his mother that begat him shall thrust him through when he prophesieth.

13:4    那日，凡作先知說預言的，必因他所論的異象羞愧，不再穿毛衣哄騙人。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the prophets shall be ashamed every one of his vision, when he hath prophesied; neither shall they wear a rough garment to deceive:

13:5    他必說，我不是先知，我是耕地的。我從幼年作人的奴僕。
But he shall say, I am no prophet, I am an husbandman; for man taught me to keep cattle from my youth.

13:6    必有人問他說，你兩臂中間是什麼傷呢。他必回答說，這是我在親友家中所受的傷。
And one shall say unto him, What are these wounds in thine hands? Then he shall answer, Those with which I was wounded in the house of my friends.

13:7    萬軍之耶和華說，刀劍哪，應當興起，攻擊我的牧人，和我的同伴。擊打牧人，羊就分散，我必反手加在微小者的身上。
Awake, O sword, against my shepherd, and against the man that is my fellow, saith the LORD of hosts: smite the shepherd, and the sheep shall be scattered: and I will turn mine hand upon the little ones.

13:8    耶和華說，這全地的人，三分之二，必被剪除而死，三分之一，仍必存留。
And it shall come to pass, that in all the land, saith the LORD, two parts therein shall be cut off and die; but the third shall be left therein.

13:9    我要使這三分之一經火，熬煉他們，如熬煉銀子，試煉金子。他們必求告我的名，我必應允他們。我要說，這是我的子民。他們也要說，耶和華是我們的神。
And I will bring the third part through the fire, and will refine them as silver is refined, and will try them as gold is tried: they shall call on my name, and I will hear them: I will say, It is my people: and they shall say, The LORD is my God.




舊約 -- 撒迦利亞書(Zechariah) -- 第 14 章 ( 本篇共有 14 章 )    　


14:1    耶和華的日子臨近。你的財物，必被搶掠，在你中間分散。
Behold, the day of the LORD cometh, and thy spoil shall be divided in the midst of thee.

14:2    因為我必聚集萬國與耶路撒冷爭戰。城必被攻取，房屋被搶奪婦女被玷汙，城中的民一半被擄去，剩下的民，仍在城中，不致剪除。
For I will gather all nations against Jerusalem to battle; and the city shall be taken, and the houses rifled, and the women ravished; and half of the city shall go forth into captivity, and the residue of the people shall not be cut off from the city.

14:3    那時耶和華必出去與那些國爭戰，好像從前聲戰一樣。
Then shall the LORD go forth, and fight against those nations, as when he fought in the day of battle.

14:4    那日，他的腳必站在耶路撒冷前面朝東的橄欖山上。這山必從中間分裂，自東至西成為極大的谷。山的一半向北挪移，一半向南挪移。
And his feet shall stand in that day upon the mount of Olives, which is before Jerusalem on the east, and the mount of Olives shall cleave in the midst thereof toward the east and toward the west, and there shall be a very great valley; and half of the mountain shall remove toward the north, and half of it toward the south.

14:5    你們要從我山的谷中逃跑，因為山谷必延到亞薩。你們逃跑，必如猶大王烏西雅年間的人逃避大地震一樣。耶和華我的神必降臨，有一切聖者同來。
And ye shall flee to the valley of the mountains; for the valley of the mountains shall reach unto Azal: yea, ye shall flee, like as ye fled from before the earthquake in the days of Uzziah king of Judah: and the LORD my God shall come, and all the saints with thee.

14:6    那日，必沒有光。三光必退縮。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that the light shall not be clear, nor dark:

14:7    那日，必是耶和華所知道的。不是白晝，也不是黑夜，到了晚上才有光明。
But it shall be one day which shall be known to the LORD, not day, nor night: but it shall come to pass, that at evening time it shall be light.

14:8    那日必有活水從耶路撒冷出來，一半往東海流，一半往西海流。冬夏都是如此。
And it shall be in that day, that living waters shall go out from Jerusalem; half of them toward the former sea, and half of them toward the hinder sea: in summer and in winter shall it be.

14:9    耶和華必作全地的王，那日耶和華必為獨一無二的。他的名也是獨一無二的。
And the LORD shall be king over all the earth: in that day shall there be one LORD, and his name one.

14:10    全地，從迦巴直到耶路撒冷南方的臨門，要變為亞拉巴。耶路撒冷必仍居高位，就是從便雅憫門到第一門之處，又到角門，並從哈楠業樓，直到王的酒榨。
All the land shall be turned as a plain from Geba to Rimmon south of Jerusalem: and it shall be lifted up, and inhabited in her place, from Benjamin's gate unto the place of the first gate, unto the corner gate, and from the tower of Hananeel unto the king's winepresses.

14:11    人必住在其中，不再有咒詛。耶路撒冷人必安然居住。
And men shall dwell in it, and there shall be no more utter destruction; but Jerusalem shall be safely inhabited.

14:12    耶和華用災殃，攻擊那與耶路撒冷爭戰的列國人，必是這樣。他們兩腳站立的時候，肉必消沒，眼在眶中乾癟，舌在口中潰爛。
And this shall be the plague wherewith the LORD will smite all the people that have fought against Jerusalem; Their flesh shall consume away while they stand upon their feet, and their eyes shall consume away in their holes, and their tongue shall consume away in their mouth.

14:13    那日，耶和華必使他們大大擾亂。他們各人彼此揪住，舉手攻擊。
And it shall come to pass in that day, that a great tumult from the LORD shall be among them; and they shall lay hold every one on the hand of his neighbour, and his hand shall rise up against the hand of his neighbour.

14:14    猶大也必在耶路撒冷爭戰。那時四圍各國的財物，就是許多金銀衣服，必被收聚。
And Judah also shall fight at Jerusalem; and the wealth of all the heathen round about shall be gathered together, gold, and silver, and apparel, in great abundance.

14:15    那臨到馬匹，騾子，駱駝，驢，和營中一切牲畜的災殃是與那災殃一般。
And so shall be the plague of the horse, of the mule, of the camel, and of the ass, and of all the beasts that shall be in these tents, as this plague.

14:16    所有來攻擊耶路撒冷列國中剩下的人，必年年上來敬拜大君王萬軍之耶和華，並守住棚節。
And it shall come to pass, that every one that is left of all the nations which came against Jerusalem shall even go up from year to year to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, and to keep the feast of tabernacles.

14:17    地上!萬族中，凡不上耶路撒冷敬拜大君王萬軍之耶和華的，必無雨降在他們的地上。
And it shall be, that whoso will not come up of all the families of the earth unto Jerusalem to worship the King, the LORD of hosts, even upon them shall be no rain.

14:18    埃及族若不上來，雨也不降在他們的地上。凡不上來守住棚節的列國人，耶和華也必用這災攻擊他們。
And if the family of Egypt go not up, and come not, that have no rain; there shall be the plague, wherewith the LORD will smite the heathen that come not up to keep the feast of tabernacles.

14:19    這就是埃及的刑罰，和那不上來守住棚節之列國的刑罰。
This shall be the punishment of Egypt, and the punishment of all nations that come not up to keep the feast of tabernacles.

14:20    當那日，馬的鈴鐺上必有『歸耶和華為聖』的這句話。耶和華殿內的鍋，必如祭壇前的碗一樣。
In that day shall there be upon the bells of the horses, HOLINESS UNTO THE LORD; and the pots in the LORD's house shall be like the bowls before the altar.

14:21    凡耶路撒冷和猶大的鍋，都必歸萬軍之耶和華為聖。凡獻祭的都必來取這鍋，煮肉在其中。當那日，在萬軍之耶和華的殿中，必不再有迦南人。
Yea, every pot in Jerusalem and in Judah shall be holiness unto the LORD of hosts: and all they that sacrifice shall come and take of them, and seethe therein: and in that day there shall be no more the Canaanite in the house of the LORD of hosts.




