

舊約 -- 瑪拉基書(Malachi) -- 第 1 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


1:1    耶和華藉瑪拉基傳給以色列的默示。
The burden of the word of the LORD to Israel by Malachi.

1:2    耶和華說，我曾愛你們。你們卻說，你在何事上愛我們呢。耶和華說，以掃不是雅各的哥哥嗎。我卻愛雅各，
I have loved you, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, Wherein hast thou loved us? Was not Esau Jacob's brother? saith the LORD: yet I loved Jacob,

1:3    惡以掃，使他的山嶺荒涼，把他的地業交給曠野的野狗。
And I hated Esau, and laid his mountains and his heritage waste for the dragons of the wilderness.

1:4    以東人說，我們現在雖被毀壞，卻要重建荒廢之處。萬軍之耶和華如此說，任他們建造，我必拆毀。人必稱他們的地，為罪惡之境，稱他們的民，為耶和華永遠惱怒之民。
Whereas Edom saith, We are impoverished, but we will return and build the desolate places; thus saith the LORD of hosts, They shall build, but I will throw down; and they shall call them, The border of wickedness, and, The people against whom the LORD hath indignation for ever.

1:5    你們必親眼看見，也必說，願耶和華在以色列境界之外，被尊為大。
And your eyes shall see, and ye shall say, The LORD will be magnified from the border of Israel.

1:6    藐視我名的祭司阿，萬軍之耶和華對你們說，兒子尊敬父親，僕人敬畏主人。我既為父親，尊敬我的在哪裡呢。我既為主人，敬畏我的在哪裡呢。你們卻說，我們在何事上藐視你的名呢？
A son honoureth his father, and a servant his master: if then I be a father, where is mine honour? and if I be a master, where is my fear? saith the LORD of hosts unto you, O priests, that despise my name. And ye say, Wherein have we despised thy name?

1:7    你們將汙穢的食物獻在我的壇上，且說，我們在何事上汙穢你呢。因你們說，耶和華的桌子是可藐視的。
Ye offer polluted bread upon mine altar; and ye say, Wherein have we polluted thee? In that ye say, The table of the LORD is contemptible.

1:8    你們將瞎眼的獻為祭物，這不為惡嗎。將瘸腿的，有病的獻上，這不為惡嗎。你獻給你的省長，他豈喜悅你，豈能看你的情面嗎。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
And if ye offer the blind for sacrifice, is it not evil? and if ye offer the lame and sick, is it not evil? offer it now unto thy governor; will he be pleased with thee, or accept thy person? saith the LORD of hosts.

1:9    現在我勸你們懇求神，他好施恩與我們。這妄獻的事，既由你們經手，他豈能看你們的情面嗎。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
And now, I pray you, beseech God that he will be gracious unto us: this hath been by your means: will he regard your persons? saith the LORD of hosts.

1:10    甚願你們中間有一人關上殿門，免得你們徒然在我壇上燒火。萬軍之耶和華說，我不喜悅你們，也不從你們手中收納供物。
Who is there even among you that would shut the doors for nought? neither do ye kindle fire on mine altar for nought. I have no pleasure in you, saith the LORD of hosts, neither will I accept an offering at your hand.

1:11    萬軍之耶和華說，從日出之地到日落之處，我的名在外邦中必尊為大。在各處，人必奉我的名燒香，獻潔淨的供物。因為我的名在外邦中必尊為大。
For from the rising of the sun even unto the going down of the same my name shall be great among the Gentiles; and in every place incense shall be offered unto my name, and a pure offering: for my name shall be great among the heathen, saith the LORD of hosts.

1:12    你們卻褻瀆我的名，說，耶和華的桌子是汙穢的，其上的食物是可藐視的。
But ye have profaned it, in that ye say, The table of the LORD is polluted; and the fruit thereof, even his meat, is contemptible.

1:13    你們又說，這些事何等煩瑣。並嗤之以鼻。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。你們把搶奪的，瘸腿的，有病的拿來獻上為祭。我豈能從你們手中收納呢。這是耶和華說的。
Ye said also, Behold, what a weariness is it! and ye have snuffed at it, saith the LORD of hosts; and ye brought that which was torn, and the lame, and the sick; thus ye brought an offering: should I accept this of your hand? saith the LORD.

1:14    行詭詐的在群中有公羊，他許願卻用有殘疾的獻給主，這人是可咒詛的。因為我是大君王，我的名在外邦中是可畏的。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
But cursed be the deceiver, which hath in his flock a male, and voweth, and sacrificeth unto the LORD a corrupt thing: for I am a great King, saith the LORD of hosts, and my name is dreadful among the heathen.




舊約 -- 瑪拉基書(Malachi) -- 第 2 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


2:1    眾祭司阿，這誡命是傳給你們的。
And now, O ye priests, this commandment is for you.

2:2    萬軍之耶和華說，你們若不聽從，也不放在心上，將榮耀歸與我的名，我就使咒詛臨到你們，使你們的福分變為咒詛。因你們不把誡命放在心上，我已經咒詛你們了。
If ye will not hear, and if ye will not lay it to heart, to give glory unto my name, saith the LORD of hosts, I will even send a curse upon you, and I will curse your blessings: yea, I have cursed them already, because ye do not lay it to heart.

2:3    我必斥責你們的種子，又把你們犧牲的糞，抹你們的臉上。你們要與糞一同除掉。
Behold, I will corrupt your seed, and spread dung upon your faces, even the dung of your solemn feasts; and one shall take you away with it.

2:4    你們就知道我傳這誡命給你們，使我與利未（或作利未人）所立的約，可以常存。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
And ye shall know that I have sent this commandment unto you, that my covenant might be with Levi, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:5    我曾與他立生命和平安的約。我將這兩樣賜給他，使他存敬畏的心，他就敬畏我，懼怕我的名。
My covenant was with him of life and peace; and I gave them to him for the fear wherewith he feared me, and was afraid before my name.

2:6    真實的律法在他口中，他嘴裡沒有不義的話。他以平安和正直與我同行，使多人回頭離開罪孽。
The law of truth was in his mouth, and iniquity was not found in his lips: he walked with me in peace and equity, and did turn many away from iniquity.

2:7    祭司的嘴裡當存知識，人也當由他口中尋求律法，因為他是萬軍之耶和華的使者。
For the priest's lips should keep knowledge, and they should seek the law at his mouth: for he is the messenger of the LORD of hosts.

2:8    你們卻偏離正道，使許多人在律法上跌倒。你們廢棄我與利未所立的約。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
But ye are departed out of the way; ye have caused many to stumble at the law; ye have corrupted the covenant of Levi, saith the LORD of hosts.

2:9    所以我使你們被眾人藐視，看為下賤，因你們不守我的道，竟在律法上瞻徇情面。
Therefore have I also made you contemptible and base before all the people, according as ye have not kept my ways, but have been partial in the law.

2:10    我們豈不都是一位父嗎。豈不是一位神所造的嗎。我們各人怎嗎以詭詐待弟兄，背棄了神與我們列祖所立的約呢。
Have we not all one father? hath not one God created us? why do we deal treacherously every man against his brother, by profaning the covenant of our fathers?

2:11    猶大人行事詭詐，並且在以色列和耶路撒冷中，行一件可憎的事。因為猶大人褻瀆耶和華所喜愛的聖潔（或作聖地），娶事奉外邦神的女子為妻。
Judah hath dealt treacherously, and an abomination is committed in Israel and in Jerusalem; for Judah hath profaned the holiness of the LORD which he loved, and hath married the daughter of a strange god.

2:12    凡行這事的，無論何人（何人原文作叫醒的答應的），就是獻供物給萬軍之耶和華，耶和華也必從雅各的帳棚中剪除他。
The LORD will cut off the man that doeth this, the master and the scholar, out of the tabernacles of Jacob, and him that offereth an offering unto the LORD of hosts.

2:13    你們又行了一件這樣的事，使前妻嘆息哭泣的眼淚，遮蓋耶和華的壇，以致耶和華不再看顧那供物，也不樂意從你們手中收納。
And this have ye done again, covering the altar of the LORD with tears, with weeping, and with crying out, insomuch that he regardeth not the offering any more, or receiveth it with good will at your hand.

2:14    你們還說，這是為什麼呢。因耶和華在你和你幼年所娶的妻中間作見證。她雖是你的配偶，又是你盟約的妻，你卻以詭詐待她。
Yet ye say, Wherefore? Because the LORD hath been witness between thee and the wife of thy youth, against whom thou hast dealt treacherously: yet is she thy companion, and the wife of thy covenant.

2:15    雖然神有靈的餘力能造多人，他不是單造一人嗎。為何只造一人呢。乃是他願人得虔誠的後裔。所以當謹守你們的心，誰也不可以詭詐待幼年所娶的妻。
And did not he make one? Yet had he the residue of the spirit. And wherefore one? That he might seek a godly seed. Therefore take heed to your spirit, and let none deal treacherously against the wife of his youth.

2:16    耶和華以色列的神說，休妻的事，和以強暴待妻的人，都是我所恨惡的。所以當謹守你們的心，不可行詭詐。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
For the LORD, the God of Israel, saith that he hateth putting away: for one covereth violence with his garment, saith the LORD of hosts: therefore take heed to your spirit, that ye deal not treacherously.

2:17    你們用言語煩瑣耶和華，你們還說，我們在何事上煩瑣他呢。因為你們說，凡行惡的，耶和華眼看為善，並且他喜悅他們。或說，公義的神在哪裡呢。
Ye have wearied the LORD with your words. Yet ye say, Wherein have we wearied him? When ye say, Every one that doeth evil is good in the sight of the LORD, and he delighteth in them; or, Where is the God of judgment?




舊約 -- 瑪拉基書(Malachi) -- 第 3 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


3:1    萬軍之耶和華說，我要差遣我的使者，在我前面預備道路。你們所尋求的主，必忽然進入他的殿。立約的使者，就是你們所仰慕的，快要來到。
Behold, I will send my messenger, and he shall prepare the way before me: and the LORD, whom ye seek, shall suddenly come to his temple, even the messenger of the covenant, whom ye delight in: behold, he shall come, saith the LORD of hosts.

3:2    他來的日子，誰能當得起呢。他顯現的時候，誰能立得住呢。因為他如鍊金之人的火，如漂布之人的礆。
But who may abide the day of his coming? and who shall stand when he appeareth? for he is like a refiner's fire, and like fullers' soap:

3:3    他必坐下如煉淨銀子的，必潔淨利未人，熬煉他們像金銀一樣。他們就憑公義獻供物給耶和華。
And he shall sit as a refiner and purifier of silver: and he shall purify the sons of Levi, and purge them as gold and silver, that they may offer unto the LORD an offering in righteousness.

3:4    那時，猶大和耶路撒冷所獻的供物，必蒙耶和華悅納，彷佛古時之日，上古之年。
Then shall the offering of Judah and Jerusalem be pleasant unto the LORD, as in the days of old, and as in former years.

3:5    萬軍之耶和華說，我必臨近你們，施行審判。我必速速作見證，警戒行邪術的，犯奸淫的，起假誓的，虧負人之工價的，欺壓寡婦孤兒的，屈枉寄居的，和不敬畏我的。
And I will come near to you to judgment; and I will be a swift witness against the sorcerers, and against the adulterers, and against false swearers, and against those that oppress the hireling in his wages, the widow, and the fatherless, and that turn aside the stranger from his right, and fear not me, saith the LORD of hosts.

3:6    因我耶和華是不改變的，所以你們雅各之子沒有滅亡。
For I am the LORD, I change not; therefore ye sons of Jacob are not consumed.

3:7    萬軍之耶和華說，從你們列祖的日子以來，你們常常偏離我的典章，而不遵守。現在你們要轉向我，我就轉向你們。你們卻問說。我們如何才是轉向呢。
Even from the days of your fathers ye are gone away from mine ordinances, and have not kept them. Return unto me, and I will return unto you, saith the LORD of hosts. But ye said, Wherein shall we return?

3:8    人豈可奪取神之物呢。你們竟奪取我的供物，你們卻說，我們在何事上奪取你的供物呢。就是你們在當納的十分之一，和當獻的供物上。
Will a man rob God? Yet ye have robbed me. But ye say, Wherein have we robbed thee? In tithes and offerings.

3:9    因你們通國的人，都奪取我的供物，咒詛就臨到你們身上。
Ye are cursed with a curse: for ye have robbed me, even this whole nation.

3:10    萬軍之耶和華說，你們要將當納的十分之一，全然送入倉庫，使我家有糧，以此試試我，是否為你們敞開天上的窗戶，傾福與你們，甚至無處可容。
Bring ye all the tithes into the storehouse, that there may be meat in mine house, and prove me now herewith, saith the LORD of hosts, if I will not open you the windows of heaven, and pour you out a blessing, that there shall not be room enough to receive it.

3:11    萬軍之耶和華說，我必為你們斥責蝗蟲（蝗蟲原文作吞噬者），不容它毀壞你們的土產。你們田間的葡萄樹在未熟之先，也不掉果子。
And I will rebuke the devourer for your sakes, and he shall not destroy the fruits of your ground; neither shall your vine cast her fruit before the time in the field, saith the LORD of hosts.

3:12    萬軍之耶和華說，萬國必稱你們為有福的，因你們的地必成為喜樂之地。
And all nations shall call you blessed: for ye shall be a delightsome land, saith the LORD of hosts.

3:13    耶和華說，你們用話頂撞我，你們還說，我們用什麼話頂撞了你呢。
Your words have been stout against me, saith the LORD. Yet ye say, What have we spoken so much against thee?

3:14    你們說，事奉神是徒然的，遵守神所吩咐的，在萬軍之耶和華面前苦苦齋戒，有什麼益處呢。
Ye have said, It is vain to serve God: and what profit is it that we have kept his ordinance, and that we have walked mournfully before the LORD of hosts?

3:15    如今我們稱狂傲的人為有福。並且行惡的人得建立。他們雖然試探神，卻得脫離災難。
And now we call the proud happy; yea, they that work wickedness are set up; yea, they that tempt God are even delivered.

3:16    那時，敬畏耶和華的彼此談論。耶和華側耳而聽，且有紀念冊在他面前，記錄那敬畏耶和華，思念他名的人。
Then they that feared the LORD spake often one to another: and the LORD hearkened, and heard it, and a book of remembrance was written before him for them that feared the LORD, and that thought upon his name.

3:17    萬軍之耶和華說，在我所定的日子，他們必屬我，特特歸我，我必憐恤他們，如同人憐恤服事自己的兒子。
And they shall be mine, saith the LORD of hosts, in that day when I make up my jewels; and I will spare them, as a man spareth his own son that serveth him.

3:18    那時，你們必歸回，將善人和惡人。事奉神的和不事奉神的，分別出來。
Then shall ye return, and discern between the righteous and the wicked, between him that serveth God and him that serveth him not.




舊約 -- 瑪拉基書(Malachi) -- 第 4 章 ( 本篇共有 4 章 )    　


4:1    萬軍之耶和華說，那日臨近，勢如燒著的火爐。凡狂傲的和行惡的必如碎秸。在那日必被燒盡，根本枝條一無存留。
For, behold, the day cometh, that shall burn as an oven; and all the proud, yea, and all that do wickedly, shall be stubble: and the day that cometh shall burn them up, saith the LORD of hosts, that it shall leave them neither root nor branch.

4:2    但向你們敬畏我名的人，必有公義的日頭出現。其光線（原文作翅膀）有醫治之能。你們必出來跳躍，如圈裡的肥犢。
But unto you that fear my name shall the Sun of righteousness arise with healing in his wings; and ye shall go forth, and grow up as calves of the stall.

4:3    你們必踐踏惡人。在我所定的日子，他們必如灰塵在你們腳掌之下。這是萬軍之耶和華說的。
And ye shall tread down the wicked; for they shall be ashes under the soles of your feet in the day that I shall do this, saith the LORD of hosts.

4:4    你們當記念我僕人摩西的律法，就是我在何烈山，為以色列眾人所吩咐他的律例典章。
Remember ye the law of Moses my servant, which I commanded unto him in Horeb for all Israel, with the statutes and judgments.

4:5    看哪，耶和華大而可畏之日未到以前，我必差遣先知以利亞到你們那裡去。
Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the coming of the great and dreadful day of the LORD:

4:6    他必使父親的心轉向兒女，兒女的心轉向父親，免得我來咒詛遍地。
And he shall turn the heart of the fathers to the children, and the heart of the children to their fathers, lest I come and smite the earth with a curse.


